ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We're entering SPECIFIC MATTER PROTECTION Continue the debate and vote on the motion of censure against the government submitted by the Chief of Police Representation and President of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras, and eighty-four Members of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the list of speakers. I have seen here since yesterday and therefore the first of today is Mr. Ioannis Drasakis, a Member of the European Parliament B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to have the honour of starting the procedure today, this critical process of the House, which - because I was listening to something before - is not symbolic, but is essential. We believe that this House has a duty today and all the Members of Parliament have a duty, at least those who believe that this government does not produce a good job, with their vote demanding that this negative course of the country be stopped. The motion of censure we have tabled has nothing to do with scripts and analyses presented by the government or media friendly. The motion of censure serves no purpose, serves a need for society, is an act of political and democratic responsibility. It is the highest - I would say - a step that counter-population can take when it thinks that the government that is ruling harms the public interest. The same responsibility that made SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance to formulate two years ago proposals for cooperation to deal with the pandemic makes him today a motion of censure. We have a duty to warn and call on the people to put an end to an incompetent government and a policy dangerous to society. We have a duty to prevent the worst and to seek the democratic way out of the new deadlocks formed under the government's responsibility. That is why our initiative has come up with a resonance on society. And because he found a resonance in society, he found a resonance and all the forces of the Opposition. And I wonder - I am referring to the'sennarios' - what they would say themselves and what they would write if SYRIZA had not taken this initiative now. SYRIZA's initiative - Progressive Alliance and President Alexis Tsipras discomforted some, precisely because it is fully in line with the common sense, which begins from frustration, discontent and reaches rage and indignation, and this attitude is horizontal, it is not a narrow party. And voters of the ruling party have similar attitudes today and concerns. It is - I would say - our proposal for society's reproach for the sloppy failure on all the critical fronts, first on the forefront of the pandemic, with more than twenty-three thousand deaths, unfortunately - is now most proportional to the population throughout Europe - on the forefront of accuracy, with the value of the current being one of the highest in Europe, on the forefront of natural disasters, where we have lived in these days all the things we have seen, on the forefront of rights and the functioning of democracy, with unprecedented opacity and with the ease with which this government is appealing to authoritarianism and repression. The motion of censure is not only the necessary reproach for what has been done so far, but, as I said, it is also a sound warning for the future. Here, too, all the political forces have a duty to take responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's problems will not be a linear extension of today's problems, allow me this assessment. Developments are unforeseen - I speak internationally - and often have an exponential character, because we are experiencing a time of multiple crises expressing the failure of the neoliberal model. The problems impose high levels of vigilance and planning and a climate of political dialogue, which, unfortunately, the government is constantly dynamizing. And that is necessary in the country, it is a requirement of society and not a position of close party. These challenges concern not only the political forces, but also the social and economic ones. They deceive those who believe, if they believe, that within this general international liquidity and the dangers surrounding the European recovery package and another ESDP, they will be able to create a sustainable and secure future. Because snow may end, but the climate crisis warns that snow and other natural phenomena will continue more often and more vigorously. This pandemic hopes that it will end, although not yet visible, will end, but the experts warn that not only will there be next, but it may be even worse. The wave of precision, however, came to stay and not only in 2022 and is already triggering a new cycle of austerity and poverty that threatens not only the most vulnerable parts of society, but also the middle layers. The Prime Minister is misled by announcing every such end of accuracy. The government does not create, but cancels and destroys what it has received. It abandoned the previous development strategy aimed at the productive upgrading of the economy and sustainable growth and replaced it with neoliberal policies that broaden inequalities. He abandoned the findings of scientists of international prestige to deal with natural disasters and the steps that had been taken for a strong and modern Political Protection and replaced them with the chaos we lived and lived He abandoned the confiscated defoliation plan made by the previous government and announced without study, irresponsibly, the immediate decommissioning of lignite groups and now pays the consequences. It abandoned the design for IPTO and proceeded with privatisation, indicating that it has not yet understood that in certain critical areas such as energy, public presence is the condition of security, that the effective, democratic, social and development state in general is a precondition for security and social cohesion. Does anyone think that this government can do better in the future? This government has demonstrated that it has no will or no mood for learning. We believe that it is necessary to put an end to the policy that gives rise to insecurity not only to the vulnerable, but also to the real middle class, to wage policy, leaves income unprotected from the point of view, disorganizes the state, carries more wealth to the powerful and forms housing crisis conditions for young people and families. We need a new beginning with a guide to society's needs, faith in our ability to meet the expectations of many. And that means leaving this government requires a political change for a new beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. I am speaking to the five colleagues who will speak and then after them at any time Mr Gerapepitris wants to speak. The five colleagues are Mr Cretan, Mr Giannoulis, Mr Giannis Pappas, Mrs Tyloridou and Mr Dermenzopoulou. Mr Cretan has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure is an inalienable right of the Officerial Representation to request it, it is a supreme process of parliamentary accountability and control and as such I try to deal with it, despite the clear fact that the cause of this three-day procedure is clearly the partisan correlations rather than national planning. In this context, then, we in the Couple must defend the government's work and you in the Reconciliation must degrade it. So I mention some data: For the worker we have reduced unemployment from 17.3% in 2019 to 13.4% in 2021. We have introduced more permits. We have abolished the solidarity levy. We've reduced insurance contributions. We've raised the minimum wage. We voted for the digital working card, while in 2021 we had a total of thirty-three more intakes of departures. For the national shielding of our country and its internal security. We proceeded with defensive agreements with France on the supply of the Fighting Rafas and the Belharra Freight Freighters. We proceeded to supply armoured M117, to strengthen and extend the fence to Evros, to delimit the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea and to new structures for the illegally entering our country. There has been a diplomatic rally and bilateral agreements have been concluded with most Eastern Mediterranean countries. The Souda base was upgraded and an F-16 fighter aircraft upgrade programme was made. All this has happened in the middle of a pandemic, which has been of concern to us for the last two years. We increased health expenditure from 4 billion in 2019 to 4.8 billion in 2020, 5.2 billion in 2021 and even 6.4 billion in 2022, according to the budget that we voted a few days ago. Another 1.5 billion is provided for by the Recovery Fund, as well as five thousand new recruitments of medical personnel. Now, because the repetition is a mother of all learning, Minister of Health, to remind us again - and the numbers are specific - that from five hundred and fifty-seven ICs in 2019, we have a thousand thirty hundred today. Especially in the 6th Ministry of Health, in which Laconia is part, of seventy - seven beds of ICES, we now have a hundred thirty - seven. We have created a very modern programming of vaccination. We managed to obtain a sufficient number of vaccines. We have strengthened businesses with different rankings to support them, measures that have given up and kept our economy alive. We have gone ahead with the introduction of incentive measures for the greatest possible vaccination. We have adopted measures to prevent co-existence. We've given incentives to boost the medical units from private doctors. For the new, of course, big investments we have to say that Greece is turning to a global point of reference for new investments, as international markets and strategic and institutional investors see that something good is going on in Greece, that there is a concrete plan and a change of attitude now. We have managed these two-and-a-half years to attract flagial investments. I would mention: the Greek with a total investment of 8 billion, the MICROSOT with an investment of 1 billion, AMAZON WEB with an investment of 200,000, 000 million, Elefsina Shipyards of 600 million, PFIZER 600, Next.e.GO with 100 million, DIGITAL REALITY with 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen, when Members of SYRIZA and ANEL asked what investments they have brought to the country, the answer was absolutely zero. That's the truth. That's the reality. They chose to drop the country on the rocks to serve their Utopian account, their inappropriate ideology. They chose to drag our country to the limits of destruction, to a historical fiasco of diplomacy, to a major economic bank, whose account the Greek people paid again. He was paid by our fellow citizens with twenty-nine new taxes, with a new increase in ENVY, with an increase in the advance payment to natural persons, with an increase in VAT on primary products, with the connection of income to contributions, which led to an absolute reduction in real income and deposits, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, the mistakes - small or large - are made, especially when you face a variety of problems. The value of someone is confirmed by the assumption of his mistake and the will to improve the procedures that led to them and not to hide behind communication tricks and ideological narratives. Memory is alive, gentlemen. Citizens do not forget how the SYRIZA government acted - ANEL in natural disasters and mistakes. We are all moving together in Co-Policy, with the ultimate aim of a better tomorrow for Greece and our fellow citizens, with the will to improve and upgrade all the structures of our state and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u5	Good. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the irresponsible chatter of the Ministers, but also of the Members of the Co-Place, has once again stated that while the motion of censure is about the procedure that is under way, what seems to be dominated is an anti-SYRIZA hysteria which is combined with the unresponsible chatter. Assisted by the tolerance of the Rules of Procedure to the arrogance of the Ministers, the conclusion remains one: You are accused, and not the prosecutors, after about three years of governance. I remember - I do not know the oldest people in the Chamber if they have it as an image - that a fellow Member of your Parliament in the New Democracy, Mr Kakkalos, had noticed this in the 1990s, that we have now reached the point to put the political agenda and politicians to comment on the news. Some of this in his maturation was seen in the past hours and days when, Mr.Gerapetritis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are neither authors nor "PHELLETTER" - I forgot that after funding from the Pecha list he closed - nor in Mr. Furthiotis' "APOKALYPTIC". You are the responsible Greek government and you must give answers, except for using smuggling on the ground of apologies. You've repositoryed the pretext apology, Mitsotakis. I would like to ask myself aloud: have you apologise for the country's bankruptcy in 2009, which caused pain to the Greek people? Have you apologised for the impoverishment in 2014, after three and a half years of monumental obligations, that we have reached the point of escape in 2014, why only by mail Hardouvelis the country has gone nowhere and used as a pretext for the election of the President of the Republic to escape? Have you apologized for leaving funds in 2014 so that pensions are not paid? I'm sorry there isn't. There is the arrogance and the straitjacket that the country starts in 2015 and your anti-SYRIZA hysteria begins to arise. You are using, to answer for everything that is going on three years, the Mandra issue - Eye and you are not ashamed for two reasons: because the person of 'Janue' is - the second, the third, whatever you want - the nature of the Mitsotakis government. How reliable is a Prime Minister, who in 2018 with a stalk says that political responsibility also involves resignations of ministers? The then Minister for Civil Protection has submitted his resignation the same night and resigns in a few days. The Vice-President of Parliament - he is right behind me and honours us with his presence - says attributes: "They must fall heads." Who was that? The CEO of the Attica Road, as your colleague has claimed? It has also been heard that political responsibility has been assumed because the Chief Executive of the Attica Road has been resigned! Nonsense has a limit! Secondly, do you want to remind us who is today Secretary General of the Ministry of Citizen Protection? He is the one Mr. Mitsotakis was talking to a first person and said to him: "How do you sleep at night?" Mr. Mitsotakis who took advantage of him by entrusting him to the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Civil Protection, does he have a quiet conscience now? I am sorry, but what you are using as a maniac and you have proved it both in the judgment of bad weather and in the pandemic and in your three-year-old governmental life, is a tool: First ask what lies and what excuse you will say and then decide to solve the problem. We didn't understand all day yesterday why you're apologising! If you've done everything well, why are you asking for apologies? What's the mistake? Reminds - I'm sorry to tell you - interviews of artists asking them: "Who is your biggest fault?" And they answer: 'Truthfulness'. That's where we're from. But here, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the question of the Member's conscience, if you are voting in favour, if you show confidence in a government which, on the basis of the scientific results of the Tsiodra - Lytra survey, is indifferent to the people who could have been saved - and Mr Ploris is here. People could have been saved, with different political practice than you! You don't care! And you're swinging the finger on the others, on the civilians and on the opposition? And a series of things. Because I see Mr. Gerapetitis - he does not get used to us in his frequent presence in the House, except when he has to take up the dirty work in favour of Mr. Mitsotakis either ironing the opposition or justifying the unjustified right-handedness of the Greek Prime Minister - I would like to say to you the following: Politics is not a reality, and I am very sorry, but yesterday, for Mr Gerapetti, issues relating to democracy and transparency and the way in which power is exercised and about the Maximos Triangle - Piraeus - Furthiotis. I have never seen either in journalistic or short-lived political life the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's right hand to receive SMS-based instructions for legislative work or for processing procedures concerning other ministers, Lebanon, Georgiadis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A question has been raised, Mr Gerapetiti, and it is very clear and you have to answer: These are communications, you choose your interlocutors. Your right, you will be judged. You chose to iron the opposition and the chief, the former Prime Minister. Your right, you will be judged! In what I describe you must answer. Are these telephone communications connected to the payment the next day part of the co-operation compensation for which Mr. Brutsi saw the exit door in a parapolitical manner?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u7	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm so sorry. I know the answers will contain a strong dose of anti-SYRIZA hysteria again, lies, paralyzing approaches, lymphs.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u9	Let's hear them first.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u10	Good. We will hear them, Mr President. I am sorry to say, however, that you have taken the policy to remind us of reality, both for reasons of political choice and for aesthetic reasons. And it reminds of reality because you have culminated in tactics and tricks with a prize chair, power and opacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u11	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u12	The prize for society, ladies and gentlemen, is social justice, development, equality and advancement. And this prize as a pursuit is the proposal of the Progressive Alliance and SYRIZA for a government for all. This requires elections and clearance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u13	As Mr Giannoulis mentioned to me, Mr Giannoulis, as much as to look at the phrase you said in my statements. I, as an old parliamentarian, know that parliamentarians neither appoint nor cease ministers. That's the job of the former Prime Minister. It was a free interpretation of the criticism I did about the pandemic, but not that phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u14	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u15	I apologise to the Members who have spoken before me for having made a special reference to Mr Gerapepititi's face, the Minister is asking to make his speech now. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologise to the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u17	Either way...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u18	...only since the honourable Member referred to my face, I would like to connect my speech with the answer to the issues that have been raised. And I'll start with that. It is unfortunate that in a supreme parliamentary procedure such as the motion of distrust against the government, which can lead to significant political changes, it is chosen that Civic Opposition should represent issues which do not relate to public policies. And instead of having a genuine debate on public policy, we have a debate on a witch hunt which is currently under way by the Qualified Opposition and obviously aims to me and the Prime Minister with me. I will reply very clearly to all these questions, after I make one position and allow me to do so. We're two different worlds. I come from where I come from and where I return there are limits and there are rules. There are limits of decency and limits exist in relation to human dignity. The convenience with which you try to disperse people goes beyond every limit and every rule. This has happened in previous governance with persecutions that took place within the House, and is happening today by targeting people and degrading characters. We are not all the same, and I will not at least adopt this practice. You have spoken to me about the particular person, which has now become the head of the spear of Officer Furthiotis. Let me first point out that Mr Furtiotis has never seen him, I have never been on any of his shows, I have not interviewed any of his prints. Mr Furtiotis, I am speaking to the pluralist, as the whole society has seen, and you have also seen from the messages of intercept that you are spreading within the Parliament as a symbol of crime products, because they are crime products. I have actually contacted him three or four times, of course, before any issue of his or her illegal action arises. You know what? We obviously have a different perception of things. In my view of public power when anyone who submits a petition which, as you know, constitutes a constitutional right, this reference should be answered. And it should not receive a selective response, it should receive an answer to the substance. And to journalists, publishers and owners of your newspapers, the 'DOCUMENTO', the 'Recipients' newspaper', - and I am sure you have the way to confirm my so-called - in the very same tone and in the same way I respond. To anything that it raises concerning issues which either have to do with legislative work or at their own request, they will obviously receive an answer. It's a constitutional requirement. Do we understand that? And it's never happening in hiding. It always gets transparent. I have nothing to hide. So right now you're questioning me, not what I've said, but just the fact that I have a communication. So let's see what communication was. They were two messages, which - I repeat - are intercepting products, one which is a pleasant response to the plural, and the other is an answer to a request that has been made and the answer is a negative one. The request put by Mr Furtiotis and his station is rejected. Of these two you have concluded that we are, and I personally, a symbol of corruption and degeneration, that there is a transaction, that there are interests, that there is blackmail, that we are triumph. I'm not going to follow that tactic. You will forgive me very much, but this type of political opportunism that he considers every instrument to be legitimate to serve our political purpose does not fit my own thinking and politics, but also my own thinking as a citizen. I never asked for anything in return, I didn't make any transaction, and that's why I'm not afraid of anything. You can target as much as you want. But it is something that is problematic for you, and it is a problem for democracy. Can I tell you something more? Today you adopt Mr Furtiotis as your political child. You're remixing his words. You are just bringing to the property of the House proceeds of crime, violations of privacy, as are the newspapers on your site. So I'm going to tell you why today Mr. Furtiotis turns against us. Do you want to hear it? Listen to it. Because the request he made and on the occasion of which he received the reply from me was his station's request to broadcast from the DIGEA platform because he is licensed in Cyprus, invoking the Community directive that was to be incorporated. This request was rejected, although in the House there was a reservation as to whether this provision should be adopted. In particular, this provision has not been incorporated into our law. The request was rejected. And that is exactly what I have said. Furthermore, it was the Ministry of Labour that instructed the APRC and EVC to observe insurance legislation to check on all the companies of the person concerned. That was the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Labour forwarded the file to the ILO and forwarded the file to the Protoforms Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office. On the basis of this transmission and the evidence sent by the Ministry of Labour, Mr. Furtiotis was arrested and confiscated. That's all happened right from our own government. Are they transaction products? Do you see a transaction? And when the story has left and Mr Furtiotis has now begun to turn against us because all his requests have been rejected, then I myself have been subjecting him personally since April 2021 to file a motion for a slander. Is that evidence of a transaction? Is there evidence that there was a channel? Were there any triangular relationships? Turns out this is corruption? Or does it just prove otherwise? That this government, of course, communicates with any citizen until he has any status as a judge, responds to the demands, but is too hard and strict to comply with the legislation. That is enough or we want more to understand that at the moment what you are doing is nothing more than to endure the institutions because we are in a position where we need to discuss things other than institutions. And since we are discussing the institutions, I have constantly listened to the reproach attributed to the final state in the last two days: 'It is all about the final state'. You will allow me, with all due respect, to say that this is a misunderstanding or at least a lack of understanding about what constitutes the ultimate state. Finally, it is not anything that happens in the exercise of public policy, because it would be identical with the State. The additional value of the terminal is that the final state coordinates policies, monitors policies, evaluates policies. This is the additional value of the state of service. So every time there are mistakes and failures in the government - every government makes mistakes and failures and we have done and try to learn through these mistakes - it is true that we should coordinate and monitor. This model, you know, is the state right. It is the conflict that has existed since the beginning of the Greek state, when the two different political worldviews were formulated. The theory of the single state that coordinates and monitors, the political idea of Kapodistrias, against the blurred landscape that shapes rules that do not exist, are grey, so that corruption and the customer system can intrude, that of the quality that survived the struggle. We are therefore in favour of this state. Really in the state at last what do you disagree with? So I can understand. Do you disagree that there should be ministerial councils that are held regularly every month and through the Ministerial Councils, all bills should be passed? Do you disagree that there should be public consultation of all the bills so that citizens and interested parties can express their views? Do you object to the transfer of responsibilities from political leadership to service administration so that there is a continuity of the state? Do you disagree with the Secretary-General who now has the entire Ministry's "wallet", the Ministry's contracts, the ministry's warrants, rather than the Minister's having them? Do you disagree that there is a public posting of a single draft government policy so that there is public accountability of the government constantly? Do you disagree that all heads of government should be chosen by a majority committee, from where they were the ministers' choices? Do you object to the concentration of all the test material in one single authority, the national Transparency Authority, than being multi-dimensional? Do you disagree, at the end of the day, on the basis of the state of service? Do you disagree with the development of horizontal policies, which are the heart of the state of service, such as the national plan on the rights of persons with disabilities, equality, the national plan on the rights of the child, the abused women, the Roma, the national plan on the fight against poverty? Do you disagree with these horizontal policies? The ultimate state is an important innovation which is a reserve for the Greek state. I understand that today we are talking about because we are trying to put into a diffuse debate corruption issues, issues that have to do with errors and which should be attributed to them. I want to end up where I started. You have a perception that anyone who communicates and talks about him has a presumption of corruption. Every conversation, however, is not a transaction. There's that way of thinking. It may be a way of thinking that has passed some parts of the political scenery. Fortunately, however, we are not all thinking the same way. It's not every communication transaction. There was no favour to any businessman, no privateer. On the contrary, there has been very strict compliance with the legislation. On the contrary, today there is a political adoption of anything that is inextricable to be brought here. But political confrontation cannot be made in terms of intolerance and hostility. Political controversy should be based on arguments and consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u19	When you're ironing out the former Prime Minister, is it all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u20	If I may, at the time when I come to politics - I am not from politics or the party tube, you know it - I had one, as the Chief of Officer Opposition would say, delusion. I thought that when a critical mass of fresh people coming from society - you will allow me to exaggerate - to serve the public interest, this could change mentality, stereotypes, structures that had survived for a long time. I fell out. Unfortunately, the inertia of political intolerance is so great that it is very difficult to break this watertight. It is for this reason that people who have emerged from society are prevented from serving in the public interest, and this, unfortunately, is becoming conscious, so that a stereotype, intact party system is among its own power and joints. And that's the problem of democracy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u21	Mr Skourletis will make use of one of the three quarters he has at his disposal today as a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor, obviously for questions to Mr. Gerapetti.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you did not deny the existence of SMS and your officers' conversations with Mr. Furthiotis. On the contrary, you have confirmed both the content and the existence of them. The only thing you mentioned is that they were 'unlawfully stolen'. The political issue, however, is not where they came from. The political issue is that a Minister of Labour is apologising to a telefaxer of the level and characteristics of Mr Furtiotis and apologizes to him because he is late to incorporate his demands into bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u23	His demands have been rejected! Understood, rejected!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u24	I'll give you the floor later, Mr. Gerapititi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u25	What is presented by SMS is the thanks of your political leaders for the sanctuary of government officials. This gentleman had fourteen police guards when we know the cops don't spare us. How many will you no longer appoint to even the Fourteen Fourteen, when there is a wild crime outside and when you are supposed to be cut for the safety of the world. That's challenging! Your colleagues in the past, even for one question, when they proved to be in favour of some business interests, have resigned. You should have resigned or dismissed. The fact that your Prime Minister keeps you means he also has the full responsibility for interactive dealings, a transaction that your government is building with the Furtites. List of Peaches, Purthets, interacting relationships. They won't save you. You will not escape the wrath of the world for everything you have done for the pandemic, for the snow, for unemployment, for the workers, in fact. You can't for a long time depend on the laurels of the established polls. If you really want to be rated by the world, resign and proclaim elections. That's what we've been asking you for three days. But you, especially, should at least have the emoluments on your own already resign. Unfortunately, it's a very black spot on your own short political route.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u26	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, to avoid coming back, are you parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u27	Yes, I am, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u28	You want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u29	No, I don't want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Buquoir, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u31	After the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u32	Not after the Minister. The Minister will close. Now if you want to speak for three minutes. The Minister will close and close the matter. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. We are witnessing absolute distortion. And I will not start by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. I'll start with the previous congressman. He took the debate in 2015 - and I invoke his argument to prove the extent of the distortion - and accused us of escaping from power in 2015 on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. When Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos said with a narrow voice in the Greek Parliament: "We too will not vote for ourselves." Who, then, have they escaped?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u34	The people who had the funds licensed...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u35	You guys, by the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u36	Do not personally address colleagues. Go ahead, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u37	Only the chopper was missing. You escaped with empty funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, these are political arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Giannoulis, he's asking a general question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u40	It's addressed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u41	I am neither personally insulting nor easily blame, nor murder a character, nor any of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u42	It distorts what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u43	I have political arguments invoked. We are in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u44	Now are we gonna have this conversation? I would like to remind you that we have another hundred and thirty colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u45	Be more modest!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u46	What services does Furtiotis provide you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u47	But he has nothing to do with you. Finish it, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u48	What should I finish? You gave me a minute and a half. Three times I've been interrupted. Mr President, I understand the difficulty of SYRIZA facing reality, even after the triple election defeat of 2019. They remain in their delusion and in their taunting. They think their thoughts and their opinions...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u49	What services does Furtiotis provide you? What services?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u50	Did they answer you? Have the Ministers answered you with SMS?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u51	I understand that they bother what I'm saying, I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr Buquoir, you are addressing the Bureau! Don't answer a colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I'm constantly interrupted, don't you see?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u54	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u55	You cannot ignore such terrorism within Parliament, Mr President. It's impossible. When we try to distort even recent political history, you realise that as a Parliamentary representative I have the duty to respond. I think the Minister's replies, Mr. Gerapeitritis, were complete. The attempt of Officer Opposition, by raising tons, to prove that something else is said here or something else happens, falls into the void, because I think we have all witnessed a communication that has been made, a request that has been rejected and a noble way to behave and speak to a Minister and, indeed, the top Minister of Government. From there on, all the rest is an empty scenario, to be heard without material. That can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u56	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u57	So, ladies and gentlemen, this top parliamentary procedure will be completed. As you were entitled to put forward a motion of censure, so we fully have the right to defend a governmental project which cannot, of course, be compared to yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to respond with real facts and arguments. I am very sorry, Mr Skourletis, because I understand that at the moment all you are interested is simply to create an absolute confusion about reality in pursuing temporary political benefits. And unfortunately - and I say this frankly - it proves what I said, that in order to satisfy your political goals you are not urging anyone before. You distort reality, you use every fair and unfair means. We have heard here, in this House, that it does not matter that this is a product of crime that you are moving...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u60	You will prove that! It's important that you're supporting Purthets!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Skourletis, your Minister has heard you dragging his chariots without taking out the crumbs. Calm down in the morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u62	Are they made?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Giannoulis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u64	You have very competent lawyers in the parliamentary group to see that those who violate the confidentiality of communications are a product of crime and the one who channels them and transmits them equally become accountable. So what you're saying doesn't matter what it's criminal, but politics matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u65	It matters differently. Don't twist. For your political responsibilities, tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u66	I just want to show how much really hypocrisy there is in the space, when we come and we can use anything, to twist everything, just so we can get a benefit. So I'll tell you this isn't our world.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u67	A clean word: Are they forged?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u68	I repeat and conclude: it also shows the reality that as far as you have spoken, and Mr Giannoulis and Mr Skourletis, there was a reverential silence and when our parliamentary representative and I speak this situation. It finally proves how different and different Parliaments we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u69	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u70	But now you want me to get up and call you back to class in the morning morning, Sunday? For Christ's sake! In any case, nothing is written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u71	I won't make any setbacks. It's not my style, and I'll never get it. I'm not going to talk about what happened in the past, or what happened in Maximos, or whatever business interface there was, or about the triangles you mentioned. I will tell you one thing only: In this government and as far as I am concerned, there has never been a single moment in which private interest has been served. I would be much better, anyway, to be out of politics as well. Because, you know, some people here have life outside politics. They could be out of politics and be just as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u72	What are you talking about? You insult the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u73	What he says is reproach for the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u74	Let the Prime Minister judge that, Mr. Skourletis. Do you want to protect the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u75	Count our badges!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u76	Now, you're not telling me, are you gonna show the House Sunday morning? Mr. Skourlet, please! Next time, I beg your pardon very much, although we are both old colleagues, you will make me work differently. You won't protect the Prime Minister! Let him be protected by the Members of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u77	Are you forbidden by that, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Pappa, please! I am addressing both sides. Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u79	I have not had time to speak, Mr President. Before you speak three, then, it turns out what I said, that we're not all the same. Dignity is a parliamentary asset which we must all maintain. The ethos that we must keep in this Chamber is the example that we give to everyone else. I want to tell you that I have a perfectly quiet conscience. In view of the phenomena you have said, there has been no single request. He was quoted on our own initiative in justice, confiscated, filed a lawsuit. If you think this is not sufficient proof of the government's integer attitude, I am very sorry. You should look at the same things to see whether or not this government actually serves the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Ioannis Pappas from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Vice-President, the motion of censure, as you know well and as you say every day in these three days that we are here, will not be voted on and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy will continue its course stronger and stronger. But on Sunday night you can celebrate a record that your Chief Tsipras won. He is the first chief of officer's counterpopulation, since the Migration to date, who has tabled a motion of censure or distrust four times. Two on the government of Antonis Samaras and two on the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It seems that it has a political obsession, not to let governments, the governments elected by the people of New Democracy, complete their parliamentary life in every way. In 2015 you took advantage of the election of the President of the Republic. Fortunately for our country today you cannot do it. But you have another post-government record. You are the first Civic Opposition attempting to export to a National Representation of your internal-party problems and the political deadlock to which you are themselves. We all realise that you are under pressure, both internally and from the Change Movement and its President. But I really want to be honest me and my colleagues with you. We don't care. It is not a problem for the Greek Parliament. It's not our problem. You can solve it in your meetings, in the offices of Koumoundouros, in your conference, in your company. But this is not our concern. Now, with regard to the Movement of Change when you manage to understand what your leader, Mr. Androulakis, means, with the attitude of telling us, too, to know how to do it in the future, so that we can get together and not be lost in the meanings. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the obvious speech of the motion of censure, namely recent bad weather and manipulations. Be honest? One cannot be pleased with all this, nor can one say that the manipulation was a success. After all, the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, said so. Sorry, you know, when there are mistakes and responsibilities, is an act of political courage, as long as it is accompanied by decisions and changes. That's what our government does, and that's what it's going to do. You, of course, didn't even apologize for not asking for it. Besides, you have an allergy to that word. But you haven't changed anything either. None of us claim that everything worked perfectly. There will be changes and protocols aimed at effectiveness. Mistakes and omissions decades have been called upon to correct them in order to be effective. That's what we're doing and, believe me, we'll do it and we'll make it. To avoid disasters again, so that human lives are not compromised again, such as those lost in Mandra and Matti. But look, when changes come to put forward proposals and do not do what you are used to here in the Greek Parliament. Now can I remind you what the Civil Protection was on your days? To not forget, it was a downgraded general secretariat, subordinated, in a building without an earthquake forecast, without even 112 being operational, without 112 being at the disposal of the citizens to be informed and notified. And the results of your actions have been captured in prosecutor's findings. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to pass through the other pillars of your proposal, which you have undermined in the way you have dealt with them, I would like to ask you honestly and I address you: have you divorced from seriousness? In the last two years, our country, Greece, has been going through so many major crises, the two global crises and a national one, health with pandemic, energy with increased prices and Greek-Turkish. What are you doing in these crises? You remain like political thieves in the corner for temporary benefits. In pandemic, you mock the uninvasive ones. You have targeted and targeted the scientists and voted absolutely no measure. You're politicizing with dead people, it's sad. Even yesterday colleagues from SYRIZA were trying to offset the dead from the last five months with the pandemic with the dead from Matti. It's unacceptable! It's a disgrace! And on the other front of accuracy, do you know how many realistic suggestions you made? Absolutely nothing, nothing! You still have in mind the logic of the money tree and easy benefits. Now for the Greek-Turkish what can I comment on? That you were missing during the attempted invasion of Evros, that you are not yet sure that the sea has borders, that 'immigrants have taken', that you voted against the defensive agreement with France and you have already announced that you will also vote against the US agreement? Your leader came to support recently on a channel that it was kits the spectacle of the priests to bless the Rafah and the band to play the national anthem. How proud of this statement? Unless you believe her. It's on the front of the economy that you showed your real face. From all the tax reductions the government has brought to Parliament and have the Members of the New Democracy voted, do you know how many you have voted on? None, absolutely nothing, here. You are opposed to tax reduction and it is not wrong to say it, as Mr Tsakalots has said that it was your choice to tax the middle-class. Finally, I should like to mention something you have dared and grasped today, and Mr Skourletis has stressed this very clearly from this point of view. Do you speak of the rule of law and institutions? You know, there's got to be a limit somewhere. May I remind you that your Government representative, Mr. Janakopoulos, went to the Areo Pagos to be informed at the request of Mr. Tsipras, as he himself said in the pre-examination? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, a minute's tolerance, please. Mr Papagelopoulos, the Minister of your own government, and indeed the Minister of Justice, has been referred to a judiciary for serious offences. Note what it is because you are present in here the protectors of the rule of law: moral automobile in malicious abuse of power. Moral automobile in faulty misuse of power. Moral automobile in duty violation. Duty violation. Extortion attempt. A state official's gift. A gift for a clerk. Crime gang. What do you have to say about all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u82	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u83	And because you have fresh sensitivity and short memory, there were journalists arrested in your own government in the process of self-defense and you trapped them. For all these reasons, I will vote against the motion of censure for dozens of others, but I do not have time. Because in Greece and the Greeks it is worth a government that respects them. They don't deserve people who are mocking them, insulting them and underestimating them. Finally, let me say this: in the end, you are the living proof of the term "whoever forgets his mistakes is demolished", Mr Skourletis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u84	Step is called upon by my colleague, SYRIZA, a Member of the European Parliament, to speak with one voice. Mr. Dermetzopoulou will also speak, as I had said, which is five years old, and then Minister Tsiaras will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pappa, a little more modest, a little more restrained, and more empathetic about what the citizens have been going through for the past two and a half years with pandemic, in fact, with the suffering of weather phenomena. But I would not expect you to understand how the citizens of Attica were troubled, in Marathon, in Katechaki, in Kifissia, because you even did your election campaign with a helicopter from an island to an island. Ladies and gentlemen, one-one New Democracy MPs come to this Step and say that SYRIZA has tabled a motion of censure because he knows that it will not be able to be an official opposition. And of course we know it and you know it, because SYRIZA will indeed not be a military opposition. Government will be SYRIZA with the verdict of the Greek people. And it's going to be government because you failed and you were revealed. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] You were electorally saying "we reform the state to be strong, with an effective and regulatory role". You have been revealed, your ultimate state has an absolute lack of coordination and has led to a final mess and a paralysis of the state mechanism in every crisis. You were electorally saying: "We will invest in energy, we will create new jobs, fifty thousand new jobs we will do in Greek". You've been revealed. Prime Minister's genogram in September 2019 at the UN conference on climate change, leading to thirty thousand workers in PPC's wider turnover in unemployment. For the fifty thousand posts in the Greek is your government's shortest joke. You were electorally saying: 'We are enacting the increase in minimum wages to twice the rate of GDP growth'. We're still waiting for it. "We support vulnerable social groups," you said. You have revealed, EUR 50 million less in the budget for MEDAs, the abolition of a third wage, the destruction of thousands of citizens with your bankruptcy law that you had and the political courage to present as a second chance, which even eliminates the protection of first residence. You said: 'We are strengthening the hospitals'. Three thousand fewer workers in hospitals since 2019 before pandemic. All of this is in your election program and it's in quotes. You said: 'We are upgrading the educational system'. You've been revealed. Forty thousand young people outside higher education institutions. School classes of stacked children in the midst of a health crisis. You said electorally: 'We guarantee farmers' incomes.' Ask them why they're moving. Because you've led them to despair. Farmers, livestock farmers, beekeepers, fishermen. They have never been in a more difficult position than the government of Mr. Mitsotakis now. Increases in farm power tariffs three times over. Explosion of prices in fertilisers, medicines, feed, farmland. You are putting food security at risk, food adequacy. You are putting farmers in poverty, in the countryside, in the area of maritalism, in a weak market for primary products. Full incapacity. You left the rural world unprotected, unpaid, without liquidity and with constant mockery. You have an absolute lack of understanding. You left the agricultural loans of the former Agricultural Bank to the eagle of foreign funds and have begun seizures in agricultural assets. You cannot submit a comprehensive and effective national strategic plan for the new CFP. You filed it a few days ago and now from week to week review it, because you see your mistakes. As long as, of course, the conclusion you have given to the World Bank about the existence of a national strategic plan, that 'Sparta' - from titles - is going well - we are still waiting for it and let it be paid by the Greek people and the Greek taxpayer 1 million euros. All you care about is how you make individuals take advantage of the property of cooperatives - cooperative law - how you find out how to put private individuals in rural insurance - you didn't even manage it - and how with the Recovery Fund you will put through PPP private individuals to make use of agricultural infrastructures in irrigation drugs and anti-milling. Moreover, the situation in Attica has shown how good and excellent the management of private individuals has been and you will also put them in the agricultural sector, the famous Water 2.0 programme, which means the end of the cheap water for farmers, perfect and complete. That and so much else was your lies. But you continue to draw an optimism from a virtual, virtual reality and triumph for the macabre realities in the country, because you have no responsibility. You triumph about the explosion of accuracy. In the first case, it is the citizens who are to blame. In the explosion of accuracy, it is the responsibility of the international treaties. You triumph for the flooded Cardica, the burnt Evia, the frozen Attica. Here's the bad weather. It's not your fault. And once you find the dark you remember Matty. Why don't you remember Elijah for 2007? Who was there then? Who was the chairman of the Committee on the Environment in that House? Did the current Prime Minister? But I believe you. You have no responsibility. And you have no responsibility because you are an irresponsible government. That is why we are responsible for it and we are calling for elections here and now to leave the most irresponsible government after the relocation and stop the destructive course for our people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u86	Mr Dermenzopoulou Christos, Member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Evros and then the Minister of Justice Mr. Tsiaras will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u87	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will start my position by borrowing a phrase that may be known in the Civic Opposition. History repeats the first time as a tragedy and the second one as a prank. When you had tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance in October 2020, then all the accusations were dropped as a paper tower and celebratingly denied your point of view. And, of course, it was an excellent opportunity for us then to unleash the work of the government. It was also an opportunity for you to tell us exactly what you were proposing at the time for the major national issues, for the economy, for the pandemic, but instead we all remember a criticism, a continual accuse without any counter-proposal, without a fixed reason. In the same work, we are today. It started a three-day account of our government work, but also a three-day apology on the SYRIZA side for all that you blame us and supposedly suggest, while you suggest nothing. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA suffices to say that a really unfavourable impact of a bad weather has really troubled the people of Attica to justify a motion of censure by SYRIZA? I'm sure she didn't. If combined, of course, with the recent polls and the internal question of your Chief, then it is a very good pretext for you to try to rally, politicise and generally assemble together. So for us, as I said, it is an excellent opportunity to have a debate on all matter, an opportunity to show what we have done, what we will make an opportunity for self-criticism that is essential, but also an opportunity to show the Greek people our daily efforts. Let us remind society of our consistency - unlike you - in our election announcements, that there is at last a government that has been electorally doing this. The Government of the New Democracy, therefore, faithful in its vision of a new Greece, meets its needs today, working for tomorrow's needs. I will try to address initiatives taken for the country in a period of multiple crises. For the economy, we have reduced taxes and insurance contributions. Only within the pandemic period have we taken measures of EUR 43 billion. We've reduced HISBIA by 22%. We have reduced tax rates and tax advances for natural and legal persons. We extended the discharge from the solidarity levy for 2022. We reduced VAT to key product groups. In order to address the global energy crisis and price increases, we have taken measures in the last few months of EUR 1.75 billion and will continue. We supported the middle-class, reducing citizens to high tax burdens, motivated new investments. So we just keep looking ahead. The tax burden should continue to deviate, the labour market widened, the standard of living improved and any growth reflected in everyone. What do you think of all this is not important, and why didn't you support it? What do you really care? For the pandemic, sometimes I wonder what would happen if you were government and had to manage this whole pandemic management burden. Even today, two years after her start, all you do is digest the voices of your executives. With the aim of strengthening the ESS, we have more than doubled the MTH beds than five hundred and fifty-seven in a thousand three hundred. We strengthened the health system with an additional fourteen thousand doctors, nurses, administrative staff and withstand the alternating increases and pressures. We obviously don't live in a utopia. We know that there have been mistakes, but we have courageously recognised them and correct them. Do you want to speak with evidence about the claims that expenditure is being reduced? From 2019 until today, the health ministry's expenditure has increased by EUR 19 billion. And we moved too fast. We have organised the freedom operation in an exemplary way. We have proposed and implemented the European certificate. We created a wide network of testing everywhere, in workplaces and in schools. But you were across the street. Faced with the compulsion of health vaccinations, against severe penalties, against uninvasive parents, against and invasive to control compliance with measures. We can say more. While the country is struggling on multiple fronts, you on the first chance put on triples. Always across the street. You've been placed to make noise without substance and with no effect. As far as the management of recent bad weather is concerned, yes, there have been failures and shortcomings. There have been problems and malfunctions and alas if we do not admit it. But in 30 months it is difficult to solve pathogens of decades. The comparison cannot be made with his weaknesses yesterday, but with his needs today. We're learning from mistakes. And every day we get better. We have received from SYRIZA a civil protection policy in a completely inappropriate building, subordinated, without any infrastructure. We have created a civil protection policy with new state-of-the-art facilities with designs and final programmes, with the telephone number 112 with which lives have been saved. So with the admission of our mistakes and not with hypocritical representations, we say what it was, we charge responsibilities, and we try to correct them. You may easily forget, but the Greek people do not. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to immigration, an issue that concerns my region, Evros. An issue that most of the Opposition by arson statements is comforted by firing fireworks and watching from a distance. We have taken measures from the first moment to bring back the invasion. We have strengthened our borders. We upgraded security systems. We did and we're going to do recruitment to cover the whole border line. With clear signal, then, we have decided to deal with an issue that most of you remain in the words, in slogans and in findings. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you must finally give a serious political speech, put aside aeronautics and respond to your role. Society has shown who it trusts. The New Democracy, the Government, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is not intimidated by your desperate efforts. I call on you, even now, to review you to remain in history as opposition to responsibility and not as a bad irresponsible force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u88	In order for colleagues to be prepared again, the Minister will not be involved until the eleventh cycle is completed, that is to say, colleagues, Mr Frangidis, Mr Kollias, Mr Burnos, Mr Kotrias, Mr Konnakas, Mr Kyranakis and Mr Sarakiotis. We will reach Mr. Sarakiotis and then Mr. Plearis will speak. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiara, has the floor. Minister, did Karditsa save the snow?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u89	There have been the problems of bad weather and precipitation recently, but everything is fine, thank God! Thank you, Mr President. It is true that every debate on a motion of censure and the debate on the budget is one of the top moments of debate in the Greek Parliament. And because such debates always create a particular interest in society and citizens, citizens are trying to understand whether there is a reason why they are dictated by reality or why they are dictated by some purpose. I will try to prove, ladies and gentlemen, that instead of the Qualified Opposition to choose reasons for reality, in order to exercise the right to submit a motion of censure against the government, it has finally chosen reasons which are dictated by just one particular purpose. This is confirmed by the fact that in the nomadic abhorrence of SYRIZA's proposal of distrust the government of Kyriak Mitsotakis does not enjoy the confidence of the citizens. From this alone, someone concludes that either Mr. Tsipras did not read the latest polls or did not understand them. I want to be honest with you. I don't believe either. The truth is that Mr. Tsipras reads and understands the polls that reveal the cycle of political deterioration and the social decency in which he has come. And that's why he's looking for ways of decapitating. He is looking for outlets in the strategic deadlocks of the cheap and consequent irresponsible opposition he has chosen to exercise. Because the real aim of Mr Tsipras' motion of censure is not to destabilise the government which has a comfortable, compact and undeniable parliamentary majority. The aim of Mr Tsipras is his personal stabilisation. Its purpose is not to prevent political correlations between the government majority and the opposition minority. Its aim is to maintain the existing political correlations within the opposition itself, the Majority and the Elassona. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's proposal of distrust does not respond to any modern challenge, and that is why it cannot produce political results or, of course, trigger political developments, as some believe. Because Mr. Tsipras' fireworks are not interested in citizens. What really concerns citizens and society is the real problems that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis offers solutions every day. Society cares about strengthening, about armoring a weak state mechanism so that it can effectively protect citizens. He's closing his ears at the ruthless cries. Because what she really cares about is how to transform the existing failures into a useful experience in the maturation of state structures. She cares how we improve the daily lives of citizens, how the state will become more flexible, more effective, more friendly for citizens. It concerns economic and dynamic policies, active policies to reduce unemployment and support both workers and businesses, while some were looking forward to locking up and erecting unemployment. Our health policies and the strengthening of the National Health System, for education and the upgrading of public school. The society, ladies and gentlemen, is concerned about deepening the rule of law, upgrading the national judicial system and its digital transformation, which is already taking place very rapidly. Modernisation of infrastructures on implementation track. The digitisation of the judiciary that speeds up the pace of justice and makes it more citizen-friendly. Society, ladies and gentlemen, is concerned about the tangible results of the policy implemented. The transition to a more rapid and flexible system that can issue more than a million electronic certificates, easier and faster for the citizens who are applicants. Which can serve the citizen and his needs. Where documents can be filed by digital means and court rulings will be made electronically. The possibility of a teleconferencing which is first institutionalised in Greek justice. She is interested in resolving disputes more quickly by means of alternative forms of law, such as the mediation established by this government and the reform of the institutional framework of arbitration that is being promoted in the next few years in Parliament. Adequate staff of the courts with both judicial officers and the necessary, high-training and increased qualifications, judicial officers, as provided for in the new Code of Judiciary. The strengthening of sovereignty and accountability and the revision of the framework for disciplinary review of judicial officers through the new Code of Justice. The quality of justice, which is modernised through a new generation of judiciary officials who will be trained by life, according to the new framework of the National Court School. The society, ladies and gentlemen, is concerned about the administration of justice, the tightening up of penalties for violent crimes and the real creation of sentences in prisons, which SYRIZA voted against. The speeding up of the arrangements for cases of a development nature through the special sections established by that Government. The more rapid administration of justice policy by the introduction of new institutional tools, such as the pilot trial and the micro-difference platform, established by the law on the modernisation of the Code of Civil Procedure. Also, society is concerned with mapping the distortions of the judiciary, which are dealt with through real data and data through the Justice Statistical Data Office. The quickest return to the highly indebted households of the veil protection provided by the law for our weakest fellow citizens. The restoration of the country's international image as a strong rule of law, with strong guarantees of transparency, which had been affected by the poor legislation of the previous SYRIZA government on active bribery. The major human rights interventions, the real protection of vulnerable people, the implementation of actions for children, such as "The House of the Child", which already operates in Athens, the National Action Plan for Disabled Persons, the fight against racism and intolerance. With these criteria, ladies and gentlemen, rather than the micro-political needs of the Officerate, we are finally being assessed by society, which continues to trust the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This confidence is publicly confirmed by the measurements of the public. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officership, you are unfortunate. And I say it because your attempt to highlight issues or issues relating to the current time of this particular governance, immediately bring the works and days of your own governance to the memory of society and citizens. And there, unfortunately, any comparison or, if you like, any evaluation effort is not just negative for your period, it is, unfortunately, an absolute refusal for Greek society to accept a governance with the features of the previous period. And here is exactly the crucial point, where society is now standing, and the citizens are standing, watching what is happening in this debate in the Greek Parliament about the motion of censure you have tabled. This confidence, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to you earlier, and to the Prime Minister and his Government, is reasonable and expected to be confirmed tonight by the vote of the Members of the government majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u91	Use your three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u92	I'll make use of one of the three minutes I've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u93	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much. Minister, we all know very well that the administration of justice in our country is facing chronic problems and pathogens, which have, in fact, deteriorated even further in twenty-one months of the crisis. It remains the black and difficult tripartite of pluralism that leads to maliciousness and ultimately to lawlessness. And, of course, it remains the great thorn in the area of justice, which is no longer one of the huge delays in the time of justice, for which our country has often been convicted. We are in the last positions of the Council of Europe. We have convicted judgments by the European Court of Human Rights. You know, in these two and a half years you've brought a series of bills. In other things we have agreed, but we have disagreed. Is what you're telling us very nice, though, what measurable results do all these bills that you've brought? What is the result of the policies that you are telling us that you have implemented in terms of everyday life, in fact, in its effectiveness of making justice more rapid, which is the need especially of our most vulnerable fellow citizens? This is the big question and what you really intend to do, because so far the world is not seeing a faster administration of justice. So what do you intend to do in order to solve this chronic problem at last? We have seen how delayed the trial of the Golden Dawn, with huge infrastructure problems, with regard to court premises. They couldn't find any rooms. We've seen all this in other trials. In the trial of Zak Kostopoulos, at the Vitrioli trial with Ioanna Paliospyros. There were infrastructural issues. We, as a Change Movement, have put forward proposals to have a new "Kallikrate" on infrastructure issues, we have told you that special structures, such as family courts, need to be created. And we insist on that. But you, especially in these proposals, have so far been deaf. I would like to hear your position on what you intend to do for all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u96	Ms. Giannakopoulou, I won't hide behind my finger. After all, it is a debate that, on a parliamentary level, you represent the movement of change in the area of justice, we have done with many other colleagues too many times. And the truth is, we did expect some results to be seen. At the time of the pandemic, with the failure, if you wish, of the proper functioning of the courts, the whole institutional framework that we have legislated for so far, we have never seen it happen to the whole extent. But it is true, on the other hand, that these two and a half years are serving a specific reform plan in the field of justice. As a result, the fourteen out of the forty-five bills of the Ministry of Justice since 2000 have been passed. Only those two and a half years! As a result, we have made real leaps and a true digital revolution in the field of justice. As a result, we have modernised the whole code, so that we can see the results the next day. The result is the construction of dozens of new judges in the country almost twenty years later. But I want to be absolutely honest. It is a debate that is taking place with all those involved in justice, with the assistance of the judicial officers, with the assistance of the judicial officers, with the co-legislators of justice, the legal world, the lawyers. We all have to take the next step together, which is actually not a step that, possibly, will bring benefits to a government. I want to be absolutely honest. Justice is not an area of micro-party confrontation, and that is what we all need to keep it very well in mind. It is, if you want, a basic function of democracy itself, which we must strengthen, we must protect, we must reform and improve together in the best possible way. And I think that in this effort, at least, the contribution or the contribution of the political parties to every bill that comes, in each case, varies. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years steps have been taken which have not been taken in the past decades. And this, of course, is an effort whose fruits will appear in the next few years. When you change a legal framework relating to a specific code or to procedures relating to the functioning of justice, obviously the result is not seen the next day. Expectation is too long. I'm not hiding it from you. The challenge for me, too - but I would like it to be a challenge for all Parliament, for all the parties - is to have a justice that stands up to the circumstances and creates a real sense of security for the Greek citizen, real confidence in the Greek society. We should, if you want, try to get through a, possibly, very bad period of time and find ourselves on a next day that Greek society is entitled to. Thank you for the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u97	Before Mr Frangidis comes to Stepma, I have the following to tell you, in cooperation with the Special Secretary, about the planning of all the Members and the Heads of the Parliamentary Groups: until now we have met on Friday until three and a half in the morning. We remembered the old days. And yesterday the Minutes were also completed at only four o'clock this morning. Having exhausted all the time, therefore, if we keep the time, we can conclude the thirteenth cycle, namely the speaker number 147, so that they will have spoken with the six as a priority, Mr Voutsis, Mrs Papayannakis, a hundred and fifty-seven speakers, which is as you understand the best in a three-day debate - in fact it was two and a half days Friday afternoon, Saturday and Sunday - so that the Heads begin in reverse, that is, with Mr Varoufakis, around four o'clock this afternoon. The discussions of the leaders usually take at least five and a half hours. So we will go - if we start at four in the afternoon plus five and a half hours at nine and a half in the evening so that, at best, and as the vote is over, we will have one to a half an hour before midnight. This is the suggestion, so that Members, particularly those who are after 150, may know that they will unfortunately not speak as far as the Heads of State or Government are concerned, if anyone objects to it, they will notify the Bureau. Well, Mr. Francis, come to the Step, third and pharmaceutical. I've given you three times. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the myth of the New Democracy staff collapsed miserably at the expense of the conditions created by the bad weather "Elpida". Its management was a monument of impotence to the Government and it proved that the communication management of the image was not sufficient. At the same time, it was an opportunity for SYRIZA to table a motion of censure. Does SYRIZA expect the government to fall? I think not. After all, since 1974, no motion of censure has produced such a result. The reasoning of this move is obvious. SYRIZA is unable to capitalise on the government's deterioration. The popular pressure he receives from the Movement of Change, after the election of Androylakis, is threatening. The internal party opposition is a thorn for Mr Alexis Tsipras. It therefore resorts to the affectionate tactics of polarization and impressiveness. Unfortunately, what will succeed is to give a vote of confidence and breath to a government that has been turned out to be inadequate, not only now, but also to other cases such as the bad weather of "Medea" last year, the fires and the floods, the pandemic in the last two years and the gleaning of the great accuracy that the energy crisis has brought. The position of the Change Movement is clear and clear, although ready for an election campaign, we consider it incomprehensible and immoral to discuss elections at that time. Is this the answer to the problems and anguishs of the Greek people? Should the country enter a double-election adventure and be immobilized by the state mechanism for more than two months, while the pandemic is halved with more than twenty thousand cases and a hundred deaths a day? We have so far recorded deaths that reflect the loss of a provincial city and daily the loss of a small village. At the same time, the accuracy is being mocked and the poorness of the citizens is progressing rapidly. And who's asking for elections? SYRIZA has in his history Mandra and Eye, the policy of the third tougher and inappropriate memorandum and the bleeding of the Greek people. The elections will take place when the conditions allow. And then the Greek people will deliver the Caesar of Caesari, what they tremble New Democracy and SYRIZA, who both cultivate a toxic political climate and a national double in order to sustain themselves. The latter events have demonstrated the inefficiency of the State which operates over-concentratingly at the expense of good public administration with harmful overlapping of responsibilities and a lack of coordination. The Ministry of Climate Crisis and Citizen Protection is required to operate as a Crisis Prevention and Management Centre, after its responsibilities have been strengthened and clarified. The responsibility for central planning and coordination, as well as for monitoring the preparedness of the local and municipal authorities, lies with the State. The inefficiency of the government has also been shown in managing the health crisis with pandemic. The New Democracy has stubbornly refused to strengthen the National Health System. The thousands of two hundred IF beds he claims to have built, out of the five hundred six he received, are beds with equipment set in his leg, without the necessary staffing. Inside it also calculates private sector beds and military hospitals, but they never hospitalized COVID. The shortages in staff and logistics are tragic. The National Health System remains upright due to the sacrifice of its workers who exceed daily the limits of their strength. Public hospitals operate with subsidiary. And recruitment of permanent and qualified staff remains to date promises. In addition, the private health sector was selectively involved in the treatment of pandemic and the recruitment of private doctors was a huge failure. For example, of the twenty-three doctors who took a recent marching leaf for the "Papanikolaou" Hospital appeared only seven. It is incomprehensible that we have so many dead people from the pandemic every day, and there is the weapon of the vaccine, as well as that there are so great disparities between regional and central hospitals. Citizens' health is getting worse. For a long time, hospitals have focused on only one disease, preventing other diseases. The pressure applied to the National Health System is excessive, since primary health care does not work as it should not end up in hospitals. Under the government's responsibility, primary health care was not actively involved in informing citizens, leaving space to misinforming and questioning the vaccine by a portion of citizens. We are the sixteenth country in Europe in vaccination, so we cannot achieve proper coverage. Finally, while two years have passed since the outbreak of the pandemic, derogating supply contracts continue, without transparency and accountability. The government has not stood up to the circumstances in a number of critical issues which concern citizens. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion of censure against the government. Likewise inadequate, however, we judge SYRIZA. The responsible opposition and the positions of the PASOK - Change Movement are certain to be appreciated by the citizens in the field of elections, whenever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u99	All right, clean up the Step and prepare Mr Constantine Collis, Member of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Collia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 18 December, Mr Tsipras at the budget debate attacked the government and asked for elections. The same calls today for the motion of censure, despair movements. He's asking for elections, and he knows very well that he's going to lose them. He asks for elections, mediated by the pandemic, and for the same reason he postponed his party's conference. It puts forward a motion of censure on snow, but the cause is polling, because polls have taken precedence from valid companies that consistently show New Democracy to the limits of self-resistance, a fall in SYRIZA, a reduction in the difference with the Change Movement and a direct risk of being in the third place. Mr. Tsipras has understood that his opponent is no longer Mr. Mitsotakis, but Mr. Androullakis. Unequivocally, stress, anxiety and panic. Of course, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, enthusiastically applaud the intelligent movements of your Chief, and you know perfectly well that after the second elections many of you will see this Parliament from a distance. And Mr Tsipras is well aware that his request does not meet the real needs of the citizens and the problems facing the country. It is a clearly meticulous strategy that only serves the need for SYRIZA to take demographic breaths, get out of its political obscurity, transfer the debate within the limits of the House, while at the same time aiming at the new President of the Change Movement, who, as an extra-parliamentary, fails to take part in the debate. And, by the way, let Mr Androullakis explain how on the one hand the government votes to fall and on the other, he argues that this is no time for elections. For the New Democracy, the motion of censure is only a solid ground, an important opportunity to prove with vigour the facts of its term of office, fully aware of the reality. Starting at the forefront of the pandemic, SYRIZA colleagues are once again engaged in unprecedented lies that expose themselves alone. And we can answer them as follows: EUR 43.3 billion was allocated to support Greek society, a GDP-recording rate, the third largest to the Eurozone and the fourth to the world. The beds in intensive care units of five hundred and fifty - seven have exceeded three hundred. Military hospitals and all private health units have been exploited. The ESS was strengthened with an additional fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff. The private sector has been recruited. The government has provided the vaccines in good time and has arranged an extremely well-organised vaccination planning. At the same time, in the slanders launched by SYRIZA on a alleged reduction in health expenditure, we can see that the ESS has already been provided for funding from the state budget and also from the Recovery Fund. We have increased expenditure for the three years 2020-2022, totalling EUR 15.3 billion. Of the total appointments planned this year, 29% are aimed at health, six thousand new recruitments. As for your reproach on the accuracy, we take into account the Government's interventions to support society from the impact of the international energy crisis: measures totalling EUR 1.35 billion in the last four months of 2021, to which added EUR 400 million in 2022, unlike you, which, on your part, put the country on the rocks with the experiments, the clandestineness, your populism and you charged the country with EUR 100 billion. We're talking with numbers. The economy is recovering strongly. GDP growth is around 9%. Investments are growing dramatically and exports are increased. Taxes and insurance contributions have been reduced. Households' available income increased. Unemployment fell to 13%. EUR 39 billion was aided by citizens' and businesses' deposits. The exemption from the special solidarity levy has been extended to even more social groups. The Greek banks' red loans have retreated by 54 billion euros over the last two years. Liquidity and cash flow increased. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] And a few words about the unprecedented and severe weather that has hit our country, the worst snowfall since 1929. Of course, there have also been mistaken manipulations and arrhythmias, which we all know and will certainly be responsible for. The Prime Minister, although fortunately there were no human losses, had the strength and courage to apologise for the suffering suffered by our fellow citizens, committed to investigating and accepting the responsibilities where they exist. On the contrary, the President of the SYRIZA in the huge disasters in Matti, and particularly that fatal night, not only did he apologize, but he also served on a recital of disgraceful hypocritical, without precedent, pretending he knows nothing about the loss of the hundreds of our two fellow people. The only thing he asked was what time the canters would throw away and how the fire went to the community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, three days have been and passed, and from tomorrow you will land in the harsh reality of the introvert, the dissolved mushroom and the dismantling, while we proceed with a sense of responsibility and determination, honoring the mandate of the Greek people, to make our country strong and self-powered, to create Greece of social cohesion, development, modernization, individual and national dignity. That is why I am voting against SYRIZA's motion of censure. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Burnus has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. From a time to time we understand that your passage will be fatal for the country. In the thirty months, however, they are increasingly aware that it is no longer working. Simple progressive citizens think with fear what will happen like this and rule another year and a half. On the forehead of the pandemic, we'll catch twenty-four thousand dead next week. Recent December was the worst month of the pandemic. We've already spent the worst week of pandemic in death. In the future, when we look back at these disastrous years, we will wonder how you did it. We had one chance, because the country is relatively isolated in winter, without incoming winter tourism, without multiple airports and international trade fairs, the pandemic not to touch us in the first wave, when it was surprised by the health systems of many developed countries that have much closer relations with the world economy. You were given time to strengthen your health system. And what did you do? You took advantage of the fate of the first wave to make communication, to go out in four months of pandemic with unexplained statements by your Prime Minister to explain how he defeated it. You took advantage of it to fly millions into the media to enhance the political profile of the insecure Mr.Mitsotakis who cannot withstand his report outside of a protected environment, to give EUR 4.9 billion to direct assignments, to make business parties who, within one night, became entrepreneurs of medical materials, manufacturers of masks, suppliers of prisons, owners of non-governmental organisations, consultants - we are now talking about communication and public relations. You left all the structures, whatever grade, of the public health system on the edge of the collapse even on our remote islands of the prefecture of Lesvos. After all, our islands are only for refugee camps. You undermine the complete and secure functioning of the artificial kidney unit at the General Hospital of Mytilini for the benefit of private individuals. Behind uninsured disabilities and chronic illnesses the right to a prescription by private doctors and send them to the already charged public structures. When the scientists advising you told you that the system you created allows thousands of people to die helplessly, because it collapses in the four hundred intubated, you ordered a silencer. But was it not the director of the newspaper "BIMA" Mr Karakussis who said last year that with the incapable party administrations that you appointed in the provincial hospitals, you have turned them into euthanasia houses? SYRIZA didn't say so, Mr. Karakushi said so. You have criminal responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You communicate and feed friends while thousands are slowing themselves into a ranch. You communicate every moment, with the greatest cynicism, how pandemic ends, when the country has been above the average of deaths in Europe and the United States for over a year, when it runs one out of every country in western Europe and is compared to deaths only with the most perpetrated countries in Eastern Europe. Public health is not an individual responsibility to blame, it is a matter of collective responsibility and collective effort, but of course all of this smells like socialism and there is allergy. You are a government that is blackmailing you by the Furtian. Finally, there's no need to explain. Sell fairy tales for an effective state and see the muds of "Janus", the chaos of "Medea", the vast destruction in Evia, the thousands caught of snow inside Athens, become a place that Mr Mitsotakis would say cynically, the ridicule of the perfect state. It's not just that you're incompetent, it's that you don't care about the simple world. You don't care that after ten years of memorialization, on top of the head of society, the bills and expenses come like a tombstone, because Greece is almost always the first in the price of energy and because you have never cartoons to regulate the market. How do you care to break the cartels when they're your friends? They pour out and fight the households, but the Prime Minister goes to Piraeus to get compassionate, takes pictures of social media and then leaves them to sleep in the cold, promising that in 2026, if they have survived the next weekend of the snow, he will have found them a bed. Your responsibility is to revaluate products that scan the local economies of the islands and evaporate households' budgets, while doubling fertiliser prices, great increases in oil, electricity, feed, farmland, transport have raised production costs to unthinkable heights for farmers and farmers not only in the Lesbos prefecture, but also in all other islands. And what do you performers do? As if not all of this were enough, you also have a flagrant policy on islands, the transport equivalent to delays of six and seven months in payments. Your exemplary indifference came to the ridiculous management of even the ferry connection of Lemnos during a tourist season. Again a friend of yours was magically involved. It's no longer going with your friends. Black clouds come from Europe. You have a record of deficits and debts that you will be asked to reduce with new austerity, while the immigration pact and the possibility of proportional sharing refugees go into blocking from those very governments that you serve voluntarily with your refugee policy. Enough! You have failed because you have reached the point of believing yourself in the stories made by your communists, because your Prime Minister is naked and believes himself as a clothed king. You want to stay to smash the billions of the Recovery Fund with your friends, but you will leave to live the rest, to breathe the world, not to freeze, not to be afraid of the future of their children. You're a government in paranoia, drunk by your access to public money. Feed the underworld and pretend to be in command by mocking arrogantly or persecuting anyone who dares to ask for an account for the great food. We have a historic duty to rid our country of this criminal and cynical triumph of dangerous political frauds and we will do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Kotrias has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are living a SYRIZA who, by exploiting his constitutional capacity, resorts to a literally pyrotechnic type of energy only to exploit the displeasure of the world from the management of recent bad weather and exploit it to affect the government. It is an action, however, which produces no results for the Greek citizen and for the Greek society and is simply a firework, but which, after the timely crow that SYRIZA hopes will do to draw public attention from his internal and public problems, will eventually break on him. Why? Because with this move it gives our Government the opportunity to demonstrate its political supremacy to the Party of Officerial Response and to remind Greek citizens that while he has ruled almost five years, he has done exactly the opposite of what he promised and to see that today those who have managed at great cost - even in human lives - are asking for similar crises to come back to power to re-manage them. I am sorry that a move of feasibility, without substance, creates an unnecessary tension in the Greek Parliament at a time when we need harmoniousness and cooperation as much as we need. In this move, SYRIZA did not consider that it would have to listen for three days to the government's performance and successes and to the economy and pandemic and to address national issues and to the modernisation of the state and the promotion of the rule of law. The Civic Opposition, which believed that the motion of censure would be in a privileged field, would be forced to suffer the suffering of a comparison of the high performance of the Mitsotakis Government in relation to the low performance of its own government. And it should be stressed that the positive performance of the Government of New Democracy has been recorded not only as polls but also in findings of international organisations and have been a model of successful management in Greece for many years. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, in what environment? Turkey's neo-Ottomanism, the global crisis from pandemic, the global evacuation of energy prices have created a suffocating environment in which the Mitsotakis Government was worthy of the Greek people's confidence and not only has faced adversity, but has also created the conditions for progress and development for our country. Is it not the government that supported the middle-class and weak strata, which has relieved citizens of high tax burdens, which has given incentives for investment and employment, which has kept society and the economy standing with measures of over 43 billion to tackle the economic impact of the pandemic, which is taking exceptional measures over 1.3 billion in 2021, but also another 400 million in January 2022 to tackle the effects of the energy crisis? Is it not the New Democracy Government that has improved the competitiveness of the economy, which has achieved low borrowing costs, recognised by rating houses by upgrading its global ranking? Is that not the government that will make use of the Recovery Fund and the new ESRB? Is it not, in the end, the government that recorded within the pandemic an increase in economic growth rates? Let's see now at the pandemic how he did it. Is it lying that he doubled the ITH beds from five hundred and fifty-seven in a thousand three hundred? Did it not strengthen with another fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff the National Health System? Didn't he exemplarily organise vaccinations with the "Freedom" operation that got the credit from Europe? Has it not succeeded in Europe in establishing the vaccination certificate? Does it not go ahead with the redesign and reconstruction of the ESS, with emphasis on primary health care? And what is he facing from the side of the Officer's Response? Observations are supposed to reduce health expenditure, and this is exactly the opposite, since in 2022 expenditure is close to EUR 5.3 billion, and if we add the relevant expenditure to other ministries, it amounts to EUR 11 billion, namely EUR 6.3 billion. And what else does he receive from the Qualified Opposition? It shall receive a continuous refusal to cooperate and to vote against the mandatory vaccination of health, the resolution of the mandatory vaccination for over sixty, the vote on the fines for forged certificates, the vote against a number of laws that help the health system to deal with this global latitude. In fact, while SYRIZA continues to aim for emotion, it is opposition based on the number of deaths, while in mid-weight Greece is also low in deaths per million population, but has chosen to record deaths by COVID from the most severe in the world, while many countries choose such systems to record supposedly less deaths than coronary. I now come to civil protection and to the failures and shortcomings observed in the management of recent bad weather. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been the mayor for four years in a large municipality of the country and have faced snow and floods, and I can assure you that the structure that has recently been created by the Prime Minister and the Government of New Democracy, in conjunction with Law 4662/2020 on civil protection that I have had the honour of introducing into our Parliament, is the most excellent thing that I have met all these years. However, the lack of coordination between the municipalities, the region and the state services is the result of the fact that the new upgraded structure of the Ministry of Civil Protection has not been completed, and less the specialisation and distribution of each individual's obligations and responsibilities. I understand that for the municipalities of Attica the snow depth was something unprecedented. However, in these difficult situations - and I speak as a former mayor - a mayor is introduced to his citizens with rapid intervention and relief measures for the citizens, because the mayor must provide solutions. If we add to these the inadequacies of the Administrator of the Attica Road - who, incidentally, has taken over the legal responsibility of maintaining clean roads - then we understand the failures that have occurred and which have led to the great suffering of the citizens, which obviously requires the integration and functional adequacy of the system before and during the crisis, but at least we can say that as government we have managed to safeguard human life and have not mourned citizens' deaths, as we have lamented in earlier SYRIZA governance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I come to national issues. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is it not the Government of New Democracy that upgraded Greece's geostrategic position with the ongoing foreign diplomacy, with the new agreements and alliances with powerful states, with the upgrading of the deterrent capacity of our Armed Forces with the agreements with France, which you have not voted on, and the United States that you are saying you will not vote on?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u106	Finally, is it not the New Democracy Government which, in two years' time, has been legislating in a continuous and laborious way so that the country can move on to digital transformation, modernise the legal system, proceed to respect for women, act quickly and effectively, without interference and government bailouts of the NOVARTIS, or to set up competitions for television licences, nor by controlling the joints of power, nor by modifying even the country's Criminal Code, in accordance with party interests? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today's motion of distrust was, in fact, Mr Tsipras's gift to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as it turns out, the best opportunity for the Mitsotakis Government to unfold and show not to SYRIZA but to the Greek people the positive sign that he recorded in these two and a half years, but also the positive prospect that is being opened for our country, Greek women and all Greeks. Thank you. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Konnakka has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u108	If the Minister of Health comes to the speakers, we would like to tell you, Minister, that twenty-three thousand dead in two years and not in wartime! And why is that? Because the public health system as much as you and the previous ones have accepted it in the interests of private business. Proof that in the budget you cut 50% of the funding for primary health care, and this is how you turned the "Penellis Children" into a vaccination centre, not to list so many other hospitals that become a disease. As for the superiority of the private sector, it is indeed revealing that your common banner and work, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Santorini Hospital, which only finds a doctor on order and air transport with the corresponding bone of a few thousand. The Communist Party of Greece has already practically given its resentment to the Government of New Democracy through its action in the workplaces, the neighbourhoods, the place of education, where the struggles of the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed professionals and farmers, young people, women and the people's families are expressed. He turned his reproach into popular mobilizations, from where everyone else is absent, like yesterday, where dozens of associations and mass actors of Attica along with the Municipality and the Patras Labour Center and other mass bodies turned their wrath into a force of claim for modern infrastructures and projects to protect the people, against the politics and the system that burys its needs in the snow. This kind of reproach is not exhausted in a painless and yet convenient review system for Manolius to leave and come by putting on his clothes otherwise, a convenient criticism that seeks to defuse fair indignation, with the resignation of some ministers or other majestics, at most by changing a government to continue the same work with other protagonists, hiding that what tragically lives and recurs is the result of the same strategy that you defend both New Democracy and SYRIZA and the KINAL and other parties. Because growth focused on capitalist profit, competitiveness, the famous business initiative, for which you are all playing your change, it is essential to sacrifice the life and health of the people, their income, their working rights, their people's needs as a whole. Because the European Union's strategy, which you all have in your head, cynically selects as less costly compensation for the necessary flooding and fireworks, anti-Semitism measures, which are excluded as inconsistent costs. As for the height, completeness and speed of compensation, the northern Aegean is a small representative sample of the timelessness of this policy, since the Samos earthquakes of 2020 are still haunted by the images of Vissa of Lesvos still fighting with the ruins of 2017. It is the urban state itself, which is selectively incomplete and inconsistent, naked from inside and infrastructure when it is going to protect the people from weather and natural disasters, but is capable and finally capable of legislating against each other, to facilitate investment in large business groups. It's all set in full coordination when it's going to crack off popular mobilizations. How, then, can yesterday's heavy statements by the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, be heard that the New Democracy with Attica and TRAINOSE teach private individuals that if they do not do their job they will fall axes? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The business groups, which rock the millions of compensation, have been founded, millions who are being cut off by the people's needs, and are being paid for their foregone gains by the reduction - you say - of movement, which are reaping with the infrastructure you have given them and the people are now paying them. In private interests roads, trains, ports, airports. At airports, of course, you have also given 'employees'. Seven hundred firefighters gave a gift to "FRAPORT", gentlemen of SYRIZA, along with the seventeen airports you privatized, depriving them of the already desiled services. What if at the time of the crisis there are not even routes to transport fire-fighting forces from one island to another, running to "blue" huge gaps, with everything that implies for early intervention and their own safety. Will the impeccable government axes fall upon shipowners when they leave for days whole or even weeks unconnected to their unconscious "shoes" stay in the middle of the road? Consider rather not to fall into your own heads, since you are the same as everyone who, together with the implementation of European policy, has shaped the framework that allows the super-flying coastships to drag their subservient shells today without control by turning the connection between the islands of the Aegean Sea into torture. No axelki don't fire them but you're preparing them now and a bonus of millions from the Recovery Fund for renewing their fleet with new 'green' specifications ships. Another "hot" of money in Greek armaments capital, the champion of the world pyramid, in addition to the millions of horrific subsidies and the dozens of tax exemptions. And a bigger gift, with the blessings of all of you, the broken working rights of seafarers, by abolishing collective agreements on seagoing ships, giving an alibi to their extensive violations of ships, which, together with reduced organic compositions and exhausting hours, creates all the conditions for increasing occupational accidents and occupational diseases. In the case of capital, it is true that they are 'birthing' and 'birthing'. For grassroots households that are strictly narrow, you present the JRC's request to abolish VAT on energy and the kinds of wide popular consumption, the excise duty on fuel. While even the measure of reintroducing the reduced VAT rates on all the islands that have been abolished by the votes of SYRIZA, the New Democracy and the always responsible opposition of PASOK, a measure that now proves inadequate in these circumstances of accuracy, refer it to 2025, a time allowed. And you present as a success its permanent retention in return for the islands that you have converted into permanent places of detention of refugees. Is there any other similar compensation and bypassing the regulations on demarcations of environmental forest legislation that you are systematically indulging with amendments to another kind of demonstration of the efficiency of the urban state, in order to avoid any obstacle to building the new guardian centres on the islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u109	You've got to close up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, the earlier demonstration of power in the urban state could not bend the rather biggest obstacle that you continue to encounter, the organized popular reaction. And because I also heard the Minister rejoicing yesterday about the conditions in the structures, it is at least challenging to say it when the second time within fifteen days is on fire at Kara Tepee's Cyts from overloading the network in the effort of people to warm up from the cold. Unless it means normality, since such incidents occur more and more often in the homes of the Greek people, who are trying to save themselves either from the dark cold or from the cheeky tariffs of the "green" liberated energy. So hope for the people is not the one that buried him in the snow or the one that buried him in the memorial and the same anti-grass policies. The only hope and way out for the people lies on the road to the organized struggle of overthrowing and not in the search for old and new aspiring saviors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, my colleague. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Kyranakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Listening to the good colleague from the Communist Party who just came down from the Step, with whom we shared common years in the amphitheaters of law in Athens, I remembered, Minister, that I have been trying to convince her of how the economy works. Because the Left and the Communist Party always blame businesses for gaining, forgetting that this money creates jobs for ordinary people who go to work every day, take their bread and go back to their homes to feed a family. And others in the adjoining seats agreed then - today it's at SYRIZA, then it was at the so-called left student classes - what the Communist Party says today. They've changed in the course, though. Do you know why they changed? In addition to the election, the Left has been defeated ideologically. And the fact that we are coming today to discuss a motion of censure, which I do not know whether it was done by unreservedness or by strategy, however, is certainly wrong, comes and raises the issues of the great picture. It comes up and raises issues about the political field on which we must compete with the two major parties, the two big parties, about who can best. Who can best invest, who can best in the economy, who can best be in security, in Greece's position in Europe and NATO. Yes to NATO, from which your ideological obsession in previous years - and I remember SYRIZA's programme before 2015 - said we should leave. And now we have on a number of awkward issues that always concern Greek society that the Left should come and try to convince Greek society that it can better than New Democracy. This is called ideological defeat, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Also, moral defeat is called another one. We were accustomed to this country after every tragic event for people to say to politicians: "But well, shouldn't we listen to an apology?" And even on this rare phenomenon that one might apologise - politicians have never heard of - society was coming and saying, "What am I supposed to do with her? By whom shall I be compensated?’ And now we have a Prime Minister who does both for the first time. He's doing both, and it's not self-evident at all. This is the moral defeat of the Left, that in tragic events on your day - and I will not go into comparisons, people know what comparisons are and remembers and has memory - there was no apologies. Insulting comments on the compensation from the former Prime Minister have been heard. The history of 'I was looking for mistakes and I couldn't find' was heard. This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen, that we recognise our mistakes. I appeal from this step forward - and I think many colleagues will agree with me - that we must now, in time, prepare the Civil Protection for the next extreme weather phenomena and dare to say about the fires. For the possibility of fires in the summer we must now, in good time and not at the last minute, clarify the responsibility for who should remove or transport the trees on PPC's cables, which either have snow or have fires is a constant problem. A clarification must now come, possibly a legislative initiative, which will solve the hands of the TEN to solve this problem. The funds must be released immediately so that the forests can be cleaned and that we do not have last year's phenomena. There must also be training for seasonal fire extinguishers and the special group announced last summer after the fires, which will quickly prevent a fire before it spreads. Voluntary groups that always do an excellent job, whether in winter or summer, should also be equipped when we have extreme weather conditions and they go first with sacrifice to prevent bad situations. We have to agree, gentlemen, on possible extreme weather phenomena what to ask of the state. Are we asking for prevention or are we asking for anything else? Because we all remember that last year, when the previous leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection had prevented the National Road and had banned the crossing of vehicles, you signed questions that you said we were giving private individuals a gift not to face consequences. So now that they have consequences and they have to pay fines and they have to pay compensation, you're shouting again. That's why your voices have lost their meaning. That is why no one is convinced in Greek society that you who are asking the government to leave for you, can even do better in this area or in anyone else. What we could see - as a proposal to all the parties, at least those who wish to govern - are the ministers who undertake after their appointment to carry out a difficult task - all the missions are difficult - to pass through the suffering of a public hearing, as is done in the European Commission, as is done in the American Senate, as is done in many parliaments. For this will also make it easier for Parliament, the Members of all the parties and the Government itself and the Minister themselves to understand what the preparation of a difficult task should be, what is awaiting it and what the Greek society, through Parliament, is looking forward to having a better picture of the preparation of which every minister has to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u114	So this is a proposal to all parties and not just to our own government. Madam President, I am closing this. Sometimes people wonder when they see procedures in Parliament, what the point is in all these monologues. All colleagues go up to Stepma, we make a monologue, we go down and life goes on. To make sense of a parliamentary procedure such as the motion of censure, such as the motion of censure, we all have to go up here and, above all, the opposition calling for something better, propose something. I am sorry, Madam President, that all these days I have not heard a single proposal on what can best be done in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Comrade, please, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u116	Those who want the government to leave and come back to the positions of power to govern, have nothing to propose at all. So the government that reduces taxes and brings investment and creates jobs and does the best it can for the foreign policy and defence of Greece, by strengthening Greece at every level, yes, I will support it and continue to support it, giving a vote of confidence and voting against the motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of your speaking time is seven minutes, with a relatively small tolerance, but not more. I would like to ask you very much, because you deprive Members of the opportunity to speak. Mr Sarakiotis now has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Our country is facing a number of problems and challenges and, unfortunately, at this time of crisis, it has the misfortune of the most incompetent and indifferent government in recent years. Once again, a natural phenomenon of which we all knew the place and the timing of its manifestation has proved to be the inadequacy of Mr Mitsotakis's state of service. Many of the meetings held by the Ministers of New Democracy, much more of the photos they took and ultimately what was the result? The ultimate fiasco, the absolute mess. Thousands of enclaved drivers for hours, not only on the country's most modern highway, Attica Street, but also on tens of the capital's streets, entire areas of the Lefkanope for three, four, and even five days without electricity, hospitals excluded from the snow. You have to answer a question: is this a European capital image in the year 2022? Does he please you? Election of your slogan, if we remember well, is that "we deserve better". Is that the best thing we deserve? Congratulations! Last September Mr Mitsotakis presented the new Ministry of Civil Protection and the transfer, the new excellent Mr Stylianides said: 'We are building an infrastructure that will become a model in Europe'. And you managed with thirty points of snow to be Europe's laughter. The same thing we experienced last year with the 'Medea'. The same person of the state of staff saw it in the summer in the fires, which only erased when they reached the sea. Perhaps the time has come today, from this step, the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, to answer who gave the command of not being repressed in Evia as the "Blue" Region of Central Greece, Mr. Spanos, has been publicly denounced. There's another question. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you so proud of the fact that last summer our country was burned to an extent equal to the sum of the burnt areas of the eight-year period 2013-2020? Unfortunately, all you have learned from all of this is to invent new excuses and develop your communication tactics. You have come to blame even the scientists, the meteorologists this time. Before you messed with health care scientists, now you're messing with the meteorologists. You proclaimed as "autonomous states" in the Mediterranean and Katechaki. You suggested fines should be imposed on the enclaved drivers. And in order not to blame the New Democracy colleague who has made such an innovative proposal, and I am sure that she is being processed in Maximos, with 'any teacher who sits in such letters you will learn'. Were you not applauded by the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, when he said that to control the pandemic we would increase the fine and then the outcry took it back? But what should anyone expect from a government that, while we lament over twenty-three thousand lives - lives that could have been saved, not only if you heard what we have been telling you for two years, if you heard the proposal of your choice, Mr Chiodra, which you have been looking for for for months, who gave it, who gave it, who did, who read it, who read it - while we are in the first place pan-European to the dead and to hospitals, you continue to care only for the communication, the rescue of Mr Mitsotakis' political capital and how you will oppose SYRIZA. But what can be expected from a government of Mitsotakis, when, throughout the world, you are looking for solutions to reduce the squabbling in schools, you are in the midst of legislating to increase the number of students per school hall, Mrs Kerameo comes in September and goes on to merging departments and then, the cherry on the cake, legislates 50%+1 to close a section. For two years now we have been calling for the self-evident need to strengthen the National Health System, while Mr Mitsotakis has revealed to us days ago, in his recent interview, that he will, indeed, do so. But when will he do it? After the pandemic passes. Doctors and nurses on the limits of mental and physical exhaustion, and you reward them by sending the MATs. But what could citizens expect from a Mitsotakis government when a wave of precision has been choking Greek society for months, and you too have the courage and talk about supposedly successes at economic level? Is it certain that you no longer have any contact with reality, but nobody is wondering, has one of your thousands of post-call consultants been found to inform you that the cost of energy at the moment in Greek society has nullified the available income of our fellow citizens? Do you know that someone needs to pay the energy bill half the payroll, half the pension or more? Households are written in the oldest of your shoes. Businessmen, small and medium-sized and non-industrial, craftsmen, industrials, do you hear them? Four times the electricity price, five times the gas and increased the cost of production by 30% to 50%. Result? Enterprises cannot transfer the costs or absorb it, with the result that, in addition to the rest, they are damaged and have a deficit in exports at the moment too. And you, which, unfortunately, are government, what are you doing? Mr. Mitsotakis took the initiative a few months ago, invited the economic authors to Maximos and rebuked them. Stop, he told them to raise the question of accuracy. His ministers, in the past few months, told us: 'Don't worry, it's something temporary, it'll pass.' Then began the blessings, began prayers. Mr. Georgiadis told us that in December the accuracy will be over. And in the midst of this crisis you come and sell PPC. Having said that, because it was destroyed by SYRIZA, who for four and a half years had not been an increase of one euro in PPC's accounts, you saved it. Mr Hatzidakis told us in December 2020 that there is not even one in the trillion case of increasing PPC's accounts. And we hear the unprecedented, truly yesterday by - God make him - Minister for Energy, Mr. Skreka: in Greece, he says, an energy revolution is taking place that ensures, listen to-hearing, stable and affordable energy prices for households and businesses. Where do you live, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? A price affordable to households? We have tabled proposals for months now. Reduction of excise duty. The haircut of the private debt created by the pandemic and then by criteria. Increase the minimum wage to EUR 800. But who can expect anything from a government hanging on the lips of the Mini Furthite? Mr Gerapitris, Professor of Constitutional Law, who won the top of the policy, said Mr Furtiotis's interlocutor, that we were not the same. It's the only one I agree with. We are not the same, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. We don't make ruffles on Mr. Furthiotis. We don't give him a police station to guard him. We are not bringing the amendments requested by Mr Furtiotis. Mr. Tsipras did not change the ministers at the request of Mr. Furthiotis. We don't have the Minoan Fourtite. This shame, this disgrace, this outspring is all yours, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u120	One minute, Madam President, as you have given previous speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u121	No, there is no, Mr. Colleague, time. I informed you that the speaking time is seven minutes. There's a little tolerance, you went to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u122	My colleague from the JRC and my colleague from New Democracy why didn't you interrupt them, Madam President? With SYRIZA, do you have a situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u123	Please. We want more colleagues to speak. The Conference of Presidents decided to speak as many as possible and agreed to all parties in this, and yours. So do me a favor and close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u124	You have not shown the same picture to the speakers from the other parties, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u125	Don't make it hard for me, Mr. Comrade. You're raising me. You understand that, I imagine. Listen a little. I'm going to tell you something, and that's what I want to hear in the Chamber. Because we all speak with text, the seven minutes are a thousand five hundred words exactly. I tell you this for the next time, so you know that you need to measure the words you want to say. So please. Finish your speech and the next one won't get away from the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u126	You did not make the same comment to my colleague from the JRC and the New Democracy. You're doing it to a SYRIZA MEP, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u127	Continue your speech now and close, because that's a nerve.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u128	Good. In the health tragedy that is under way you look the wrong way, close your eyes. In the economic crisis affecting the entire Greek economy you have proved completely unable to manage it. In matters of transparency and democracy you are dangerous, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. You're incapable of showing it every day in practice. You're incompetent and you must resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health now has the floor, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Officership, Mr. Tsipras, has chosen to present the government with a motion of censure, obviously because the motion of censure wanted to make it in the Movement of Change. It therefore chooses, in order to show competition which exists on the centre-left side, to bring us here to the House to respond to what you are saying. And it's very interesting. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, the evidence is ruthless and while you wait for the EGE's afternoon announcements to make a micro-party policy, we are here and we are making a very great effort, which I will show you now, and we will see in this effort what you would have done if you were a government on the basis of what you have voted on. So we start from the first point of view to end the question of ERAS support. The support for the ESS has specific figures, which you want - you want, you do not want - are relentless. We start first of all with the piece of the IF beds. ICU beds were five hundred fifty-seven. You had intubated outside of the ICU without a pandemic. You remember that Mr. Paulakis had recognized that you were responsible, because he thought I was addressing our period. And these five hundred and fifty-seven ICU beds have become over a thousand three hundred. So that's a reality. It is a reality that the MTH beds more than doubled in the middle of a pandemic, so that we can get the best health provision. Moreover, throughout your entire term of four and a half years you have ruled, you have proclaimed two thousand eight hundred fifty-seven posts. In two years the New Democracy for Medical Personnel has declared three thousand posts, and further notices are coming now. At the moment there have been two thousand permanent recruitments of doctors and there are two more thousands of subsidiary doctors. Moreover, there are fifteen thousand auxiliary staff, fourteen thousand nurses and other staff, and at the moment the invitations to permanently staff four thousand nurses, nine hundred other staff and seven hundred doctors. Therefore, in the part of the support for the ERC, which you say we do not care about the ERC, the figures are concrete. One and a half billion euros from the Recovery Fund is to go to the ESS and the primary, and it is the whole design that we currently have, a holistic design, which includes prevention, including primary care, which includes the reorganisation of the EEAS and which includes the National Health System. What did we do with the private sector? With the private sector, then, when you were talking about bed requisitions, we now have eight hundred simple COVID beds in the system and so many other non-COVID beds in consultation, not paying empty beds, as if required. And it bothered you that we came in contact with the private sector, because you have your obsessed. And in the IF beds that I'm telling you of course included in private-sector IF beds. Did anyone tell you that the National Health System with the private sector can't collide and receive IF beds? You didn't do that, we did it. And right now private individuals have entered and every day take incidents, 10% to 15% of whose power they have, which is the corresponding percentage of beds that the CSR gives as a whole to deal with COVID. The quarters were made, and you said they failed. Yeah, they didn't go as we'd like, but a thousand hundred people are with the quarters. In addition, we come here to a holistic design and allow the National Health System to do surgery in private clinics without the citizen paying. So this was the part of the National Health System that was strengthened and continues to be strengthened daily. Refer to your proposal to the piece of mortality. So let's go see mortality. At the moment in 2021 we have 89% of the deaths, unfortunately, to be our fellow citizens over sixty years of age. It's the critical age group that should have been vaccinated. And if we think that our country is third to the European average at ages above 50 and second after Italy, 7.2% of our population is over eighty years with an average European Union of 5.5%, there was a lot of people in a vulnerable category. There, then, you see numbers and we see people. Yesterday a woman died in Heraklion a hundred years ago. A 90-four-year-old woman died in Trikala, an eighty-nine-year-old man in Sisminoglio. One of our fellow citizens died in Patras forty-five years. So these are people and our efforts were all to be persuaded to be vaccinated because, precisely, if you see the numbers that are coming, the issue of mortality is directly linked to vaccination. So in vaccination, there has been an entire effort in which you are absent, and I will tell you why you are absent. Since 1 September practically all mandatory vaccination measures have been implemented, because our fellow citizens, who have told you 90% of deaths, if they were vaccinated, would have much more hope. You voted against all the efforts made. Do you want to see them one by one? First, compulsory health care. You said no. From 80% to 94%. Secondly, the obligation of more than sixty to pay an administrative fine. You said no. Of the five hundred thirty thousand were closed two hundred thirty thousand dates and they've been vaccinated. They're people who are protected. I'm saying what you'd do if you were government. So there would still be two hundred and thirty thousand people uninvasive. End of certificate seven months for all ages. Campania specific for vaccination. Prohibitions and the lack of access for the uninvasive citizens to a number of activities, which you said that with compulsoryity nothing is done. On 1 September the rate of citizens vaccinated in the general population of adults was 67%, and today it is 84%. Seventeen units with measures that you voted against and with these measures reached this figure of seventeen points above. And the deaths we're paying for at the moment are, precisely, because the vaccination coverage has a benefit in the next phase. And what would you do about the vaccination if you were a government, ladies and gentlemen? You would have Mr. Polakis, Minister, in place of mine and Mrs. Gaga and Mr. Xanthos. Mr Paulakis has been vaccinated as soon as the compulsory, so you would have trusted the fate of vaccination to a person who was not in favour of vaccination. But I'll tell you something else you don't know. In Serres there is a Serres rally against compulsory and health education certificates with the main speaker Dimitris Kouvela. Mr. Kouvella, I know him. I've been there, and I've talked to his postgraduates about medical responsibility. Mr. Kouvelas was your Government's choice to be Chairman of the Committee on Drug Assessment and President of the National List of the EOF, and today speaks at a central rally against compulsoryity. So Mr. Kouvelas would be in the specific positions that today judge the course of vaccination, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Kouvelas will do the work that Marios Themistocleus does. And we have an impressive system now for the Greek data system which has been judged by all the countries with the best possible conditions, where the whole population has been able to be vaccinated, the Freedom Programme, and we are now on the European average. But the European average has been caught by measures which you have voted against. These were your proposals, then. Your proposals were 'false the citizen'. We say, but we convince him and he is not convinced, there must be binding measures. When you see the dead, then, thinking about the responsibilities that exist for people who did not help this world to get vaccinated, and thinking about what your general line was at the level of people, as I have shown you, and what one of you voted for in this House. Because when you voted against these, you also voted against the seventeen-point increase in the vaccination coverage. We, ladies and gentlemen, because it is once again done in this part and it is regrettable to enter into such a confrontation, the main reason for the deaths on the world level is first, with age, because it is unfortunately a pandemic that hits most vulnerable people at age and is about to do with vaccination, and it is overwhelming. At the moment, we also hope that, in what we have arrived at, we will be able to protect our fellow citizens more effectively. It also has to do with the service provided that exists. At all three levels we have done specific things to you: strengthening the ERC, as we have described. In strengthening the ESS there were many people who played a role, all who were there, and especially women and men who are serving in the National Health System. Accordingly, the vaccination coverage of the population, the measures taken. Because when we took measures, you said 'go to Lockdown'. Then, you have now begged for there to be a lockdown and seeing that there is a balance in the National Health System we can lift measures. At the moment we're talking, something that you've made a flag here is, this is the painting, Greece is in the thirteenth place. That's the pandemic painting. We'd like to be in a better position. With the oldest population, we are in the thirteenth place. Our difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that we love responsibility. What would you have done? The first thing you did when you became government is you've kicked out all the hospital commanders. Ms. Gaga as head of medical service was carrying out a debt commander in the "Salvation" for six months. You kicked them out. We haven't expelled any of the men you put in and had a term of office. If the pandemic found you, then you wouldn't have any administrations in hospitals because you wanted to get rid of anyone the previous government had put away. Today they serve commanders that you had renewed your term and you had put them in. They also serve with the Undersecretaries. Well, every morning we go to the ministry, we say we have all the responsibility. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, responsibility is something you must love. Anything that happens to the Ministry of Health is the minister responsible and he loves that responsibility, and he sees it, and he's not hiding from that responsibility. And along with Month Gaga, along with Life Raptis, along with the Secretary General, Yiannis Kotsiopoulou, Marios Themistocleous, Irene Meridakis, Preserakos, who was previously, has become a great effort, which is illustrated by evidence. Throughout this, then, the effort that the testing was in, and we are now a fifth country worldwide in the tests we carried out, unfortunately, we had a Civic Opposition that was only interested in winning micro-groups. So, at the moment, because we are addressing the Greek people today from this Step and we are bringing the effort that has been made with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with all of us here, we say that these things have been done in the pandemic and we are continuing to do so, keeping the economy open, keeping the society open, an ESS with too many problems over time that were in place keeping it with the recruitments that have taken place, increasing the beds that have been made and the logistics infrastructure that has been done and will start something much better with the 1.5 billion euros that exists from the Recovery Fund and we are already focusing on the overall support of hospitals. We've made a full effort on the vaccination cover, and we're coming and we're saying we're responsible. We know and we are sure that we have managed and managed pandemic in the best way possible on the basis of the possibilities available, and if you were in these positions, all that would have been done was not to have the hospital administrations, to be with the invaders whom you had in regularity, not to have a vacancy cover, because then Prime Minister Tsipras did not believe that the vaccine would come and actually have been an effort that would have no legal framework at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I have brought you what you have voted against. And because I see you're asking for the floor, I want you to answer me. The seventeen units that were brought up with what we have voted on here, taking political costs, why is it not pleasant to come here and put an administrative fine on people, nor is it pleasant to say 'will it not go into the cafeteria', nor is it pleasant to have the health staff suspended, so you have voted against and seventeen points have been added to the vaccination coverage, do you think you have made the mistake of voting against them? Or would you still be working with Mr. Polakis and Mr. Kouvella the vaccination campaign?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u131	That's enough, Madam President! It's been 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Giannoulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u133	Hey, what's "Mr. Giannoulis..."?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u134	I'll tell you, because you like SMS and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u135	We don't like them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u136	The SMSs you liked and referred to will tell you that he was addressing you to SYRIZA, Mr. Kalogris. "My love, my Levite." These were the SMS you changed. "My wife, my Levite," Mr. Giannoulis! Because you are disturbed by the SMS, but the SMS of a big-worker who was called Minister of the "My Mary" and "My Leverage" were not bothering you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So listen. When we come to this, this Step will have the evidence. On the one hand, you will have a government that loves responsibility and on the other hand you will have a Civic Opposition which every time it was in the position of power has broken the country. We are obviously voting against the motion of censure that is not directed against the New Democracy, but against Mr Androullakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. The spokesman for the Change Movement has first asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u138	What bias is this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u139	Mr Colleague, I would ask you very much, especially when you are addressing me, to be careful how you speak. You'll never tell me about bias again. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u140	Advise...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u141	Please, Mr. Comrade. Be careful in your expressions. Be careful, Mr Colleague, to the Bureau and, above all, to me. I'll beg you very much. You'll never talk to me about bishoping again. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u142	I request the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u143	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u144	On staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u145	I won't give you the floor. Your parliamentary representative has the floor, which I have not seen and is not biased. I saw Mrs. Giannakopoulou first. Well, do me a favor. So do me a favor and leave the plays in this Chamber. Not to me, your theatrical plays. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u146	The word "theatres" to get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u147	Sit down. Your parliamentary representative has the floor. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u148	I think that Mr Friends has every right after asking for the floor on staff, because he wants to put a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Comrade, please, listen to me for a second. Because he's talking about bias, I can't stand it. You'll allow me to do that. Mrs Giannakopoulou, whom I saw just as soon as the Minister started taking the floor, raised her hand. I saw Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Do you think it's biased that I didn't see you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u150	Seventeen minutes is a bias!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u151	Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u152	Listen to what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u153	All this because the Minister of Health spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u154	You do not want me to mention - I have done so before in this Chamber - what excesses they have on your side. Well, please, let's continue the process at the level it's started. You have the floor, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u155	Minister, I really didn't expect you to defend Mr. Furthiotis as well. I don't know what services it provides to you. On your issues, however, I am absolutely convinced that your priority is not to support as a government of the public health system. He's seen twenty-two months and now. If anything could justify at the beginning of the pandemic, it was that you were surprised. Twenty-two months later, but you're unjustified, irreparable. Is this a matter of failure? Aren't you capable? Oh, no. You are perfectly capable of not supporting the public health system because it is public. How does that prove? Despite the tricks around the ICUs, because now you are counting as your own ICU the ones that existed before the private sector and the military. So they are much less of those which you have created in these circumstances, some of which you have not staffed. In any case, if, in fact, we were to care about the health system, you would have decided at least in the budget that you tabled not to reduce the sums for health and increase the salaries of doctors. Put the doctors in the front line and the hospitals to the heavy and unhealthy. You should prescribe the tests. You didn't. Why? Because you are again prejudicing private speculation. So these are not a few hapless criticisms. You're pressing into reality itself. If, at the end of the day, you did what Mr Chiodras says to you -35% less deaths - and you show us and insist here - that, really, you can't think about it, you don't show respect to those who have lost their lives - to present us with the average from the beginning, when the pandemic was in Bergamo and we had one and two dead a day, to earn the average and to ignore that in the last few months we are champions, first-second, third-life losses from the pandemic. So that's why you're unforgivable. But because, indeed, I think you will not otherwise, you are obsessive, neoliberal, I would like to ask you a very specific question. How can you choose private interests and in the case of children? And I'm talking about the Pentelis Children's Hospital. Will you accept the first RU - because it must be approved by you - that will bring the hospital back to full notice or work for the pediatric private centers in the wider region? At least in children, not so much analgesia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. Let us see a little what the situation is and yet what the reality is. Yes, there seems to be a relative divergence in the number of cases, but the same is not the case with the issues of losses and victims. Every day we mourn a hundred, a hundred ten people who lose their lives from COVID. And the only thing for sure is that we are not in the last mile, as about a year ago the Prime Minister of the country himself said. We are third to the European Union and seventh to deaths per million, surpassing France and Spain and approaching Great Britain. I really want to ask you the question. Why is that? Give us a complete answer. As well as tell us if you have any evidence of where these deaths happen. Is it more the case in the hospitals in the region where we all know that there is an incredible inequality compared to Athens? Are they happening in Athens? What if that's what? Is this happening within an ID? To the intubated? Immediately intubated outside of the ICU? To people who die in simple beds or in their homes? You understand that we need to know all of this, and that is what we need to know. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I heard you say that the cause of increased deaths is one. That is what you told us about the substance. And it's about the low number of vaccinations. That is what you told us today from the step of the House. Very nice. We can hear it. We're accepting it. Let me remind you, of course, of the question of compulsory vaccination of health which you brought before you in July. We voted in favour of him, and we asked you to do so - the glorious Foof Gennamas - months ago. Not just this. We have heard that you are being heard of the increase of over sixty years because of compulsoryity. Why are you deaf, though? Why is your Government deafing on compulsoryity in specific professional charges as we have repeatedly asked? For public officials who come in direct contact with the public? Because you're afraid of the political cost, obviously. We're not talking about optional compulsoryity as SYRIZA speaks. We're serious about all this. And we are putting forward serious proposals. So I wonder about the deaths. Is that just vaccination, Minister? Isn't this about the shortcomings in staff and logistics? Does it not have to do with the fact that it operates with subsidiary staff who do not often have the necessary experience or expertise? It has nothing to do with the Burn out of the staff who are now on their limit and have fought heroic battles? You told us and you're saying that you've made a thousand two hundred IF beds out of the five hundred six you received. These are ITH beds that were set in the leg without the necessary staffing, Minister. And within them you count the private-sector beds and military hospitals. How many obsolete COVIDs have they been hospitalized? Nobody. Give us the evidence, Minister. How many? We need the evidence. This is our role as Dedicated Opposition. I'm sorry, opposition. We're going to be a Civic Opposition too soon. That's our target. We're looking for opposition. And you answer. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis I wonder on the occasion of tomorrow's relaxation of the measures. You're in too much hurry. In the circumstances of increased cases, you too, as we see in the other European countries, want to bring normality more quickly. As you have done too many times in the past and we have paid it very dearly, Mr Ploris. I want to ask you why all this premura? You are sending a false message of relaxation and reassurance in conditions of increased coronary victims. We all at the Change Movement and our President, Nikos Androulakis, say the pandemic is here. That we should not be reassured. That you should not send the wrong message. And that you continue once again to send the wrong messages of relaxation and reassuring in such conditions. And what you're doing doesn't you realize that first of all undermines the wave we have to do in relation to vaccination? You undermining vaccination with the relaxation wave.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, you must be brief, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u159	One last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, you must be brief. You know the time, too. You know how much of the time you've already covered. Please don't embarrass me. Please. We're asking the Minister questions and we're not developing issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u161	Just one question, thank you. We have heard you take on the matter of private sector involvement in the management of COVID. So my question is clear. How happy are you really? What are the measurable results? Because we have so far seen that the involvement of the private sector is ineffective and selective. We have one-thematic hospitals, such as the Sisminoglio and Salvation Hospitals. Functions such as surgical hospitals have been abolished at the “Advertising” Hospital. It's actually growing up on the list, raising the problem. What we are asking for, and we want you to answer, is why is it not that what public hospitals do, too, do with their involvement in the treatment of COVID? That is the big question. Not just tell us what good you're doing and the private sector's in.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, I would ask you to be brief too, because it is not a timely question. Please, so we can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u163	I'll start first by Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Ms. Giannakopoulou, one by one of the evidence. The private sector meth beds obviously don't get COVID. Why don't they take COVID? Why can't you put on the same COVID and non-COVID incidents? Private-sector beds are hospitalizing people. What have we done? The three hundred beds are divided into two categories, and there are two parallel ICU lists. Because all the incidents aren't over. For all cases for which there is a need for intubation, they are found. Both brains and infarctions and traffic. The fact that we have two hundred IF beds from the private sector and use them for these incidents and release IF beds to the public sector is something that you find wrong? How are they going to get into a Clinic ICU at the same time COVID and non COVID incidents? Two. You want evidence. Eight hundred sixty beds for COVID incidents. Two hundred in Thessaloniki, two hundred in Thessaloniki, another fifty and three hundred beds in Athens. It's eight hundred sixty COVID beds simple. And so many more non-COVID. So this cooperation is taking place. As to the second point you mentioned, first and foremost you're wrong with the ICMs. Mrs. Gaga is here. The "Save" IDs were handmade. Have you gone to see the ICUs of Salvation?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u164	I didn't say that anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u165	They didn't do anything? Not only did they staff, but there was a development of IF beds. It was in the same space. If you mean on a metric level, yes, in the same spaces there may have been an increase of IF beds and there was everywhere the ancillary staff needed. So if it were a permanent intake, wouldn't we take a man out again? The assistant has entered and will be given the opportunity to claim a position between the four thousand and the seven hundred whom we are now making for nurses and doctors. At the same time, this subsidiary staff is doing the job of the permanent. To pass on to mortality. In mortality, I didn't tell you a clue. I told you a lot. First of all, we'll put it, you want or you don't want, in a real dimension. If you want to watch for a week, let's look. That's the list. It's 13th.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u166	Five months...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u167	I'll come to you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr. Skourletis, be careful not to make mistakes. At least listen when you ask questions. I'll tell you what mistakes you're making. We're going to the mortality you mention. We have a population that is 7.2% over eighty years old. The European average is 5.5%. We had low vaccination coverage. That's a very important lead. Can't we disconnect it? Portugal, why did it have many deaths at the very beginning that there were no vaccines?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u168	Is that all? Everything else you've done well?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u169	Ms. Giannakopoulou, I'm not saying anything about doing well or wrong. I told you what we were doing. This will be evaluated. We told you about the HR. If that is or is not sufficient, judge it. That's what we said. As to the vaccines, what we have done has come to us to be on the European average. You called us four months ago that we were back. Today, if you get into evidence, we are on the European average. It's a success of Mr. Mitsotakis who took very difficult measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u170	Sixteen and seventeen!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u171	At the same time, there are other reasons. Logging reasons. We have chosen - and rightly so - whatever it relates to death accompanied by a COVID, whatever the cause it is, to be recorded as COVID death. In Great Britain after the twenty-eight days, if you die of COVID, it's not recorded. Other countries come and say that if there is a heart attack, a stroke, and together with COVID, it is not recorded. We have made the choice that a patient - and I inform you that a 10% goes for another reason - who is diagnosed with COVID, and he, if he dies, will be registered as COVID. We have the strictest and most transparent recording framework that exists. And with everything I say to you, we are again on the European average. Mr. Skourletis, first of all, because this is a parliament, if you say something, you'll say it. Do you have anything for Mr. Furthiotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u172	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u173	The mud you've learned to SYRIZA will stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u174	What are you defending now? You're an attorney for the jury?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u175	You'll stop her!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u176	In what capacity are you talking now? Shame on you! Are you defending the defendant?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u177	You defend him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u179	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Comrade, can you let the Minister finish and if you have anything to say, say it at the end? Please, to keep a procedure. Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u181	You said falsely and slanderingly - which is what you are used to - if it has something that Mr Furtiotis provides me with. Listen, Mr Skourletis, because this is all the trouble you've been making before you referred to the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis. You called him unpaid. Unprofessional, you say Mr. Mitsotakis, who you have Chief of a man who has not worked for a second in his life. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Tell me what Mr. Tsipras did for a living. You, Mr Skourletis, have been appointed a spokesperson and in the elections that took place the first time you were not a Member of Parliament, and you were also a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u182	In CEDEFOP...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u183	You all live from the sun of Alexis Tsipras, but Alexis Tsipras is a man who has not worked a second. So, you won't talk about work. [[Laughers in the Chamber From the Wing of SYRIZA]] What did you say, Mr. Skourlet? The 1st D.C. What is going on with the Children's Hospital - to complete it - has had a certain period of time and will fully return to normality. I've answered four - five topical questions. And you referred to the study Chiodra - Lytra. But what does the Tsiodra - Lytra study say? That if you have more than four hundred tubes, whatever IF beds you have - which we had three hundred, we didn't have five hundred and fifty-seven - obviously, the charge of the system is much higher. So, how come you don't have more than four hundred tubes? In two ways: firstly, with restrictive measures, which we decided on and acted on - when you accused us of the period when the vaccine was not available because we are taking such restrictive measures - and secondly, with vaccinations. So you can have under four hundred pierced. And because Mrs Giannakopoulou said something that is combined with it for the portion of the hospitals that exist, if it is in regional or central hospitals, you know that yes, we are not afraid, we are doing it in total, and Mr Zautis from EGE at the moment takes one of the deaths that we are doing and are considering seeing. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you something you may not know, although you have ruled five years: in our country we have 15% hospital infections, while the European average is 6%. So, of course, when you have nine units more than a percentage of hospital infections, there is greater risk. These, however, will be dealt with not by putting the problems under a carpet or cheap opposition. In the middle of all this pandemic, we are trying to solve all these problems. I say this, to understand at some point that the National Health System has had timeless problems and pandemic raises these problems. I inform you that the country with the problems of the National Health System, with a percentage of beds much lower than the European average, with subsistence on various points, in a process where there were indeed regional hospitals with problematic coverage and central hospitals, has stood up and has provided services that other large countries have had to go to neighbors to cover services...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u184	Minister, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u185	So that is the reality for the National Health System, for the vaccinations, for the measures we have taken. And that reality will be judged by the citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Minister. I will only give the floor for one minute to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and the debate will be over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u187	I take the floor on personal grounds, because on health issues you have not answered anything in relation to your choices. You are now all aware of this and you are isolated from the society of the government. Now for the particular thing you said. When Mr Gerapetritis said that he was one of those who could not make politics to live, I said that the first perhaps mentioned is Kyriakos Mitsotakis. You have referred to me here, reproducing various extreme right-wing trolls - your relationship with the far right is well known, Mr Plearis - but I lived in my life with my own work and everyone knows that. So leave that kind of mud. And if you like, compare and put down my own average of the posts with that of the Prime Minister who has too little, of your government and of your ministers, and finally see what happens, see what the truth is. So that is the kind of controversy you chose to do, and that is why I answer you in the same way. From there on, you honestly did not answer the issue of the Children's Hospital. You didn't answer me. Will you accept? Because if that is the case, it is indeed a victory for the health workers who have fought with the support of SYRIZA and society. We will win more battles and you will see really soon that your world is turning your back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u189	Just for a minute, Minister, because you've already been abused. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Skourletis, now see the difference. I, therefore, support both my own work and the work of the Prime Minister who had worked ten years before becoming a Member. You defended your own personal work. Get up and tell me about Mr. Tsipras' work that he hasn't worked for a second! Stand up, say where he worked? Tell me what this man has done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u191	Shame on you! Where did the Kyriakos work?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u192	That's our difference, that I defend my Prime Minister because he had worked while you have an unpaid Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u193	Minister, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u194	A hundred years supports the Greek state's Mitsotakis family.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say one thing to close a point that was previously raised and to remind you that at 16.00 the first chief will be able to speak. So those colleagues who have had time to talk and that is up to you. I would therefore like to say that the motion of censure against the government has three issues. One thing is health, the second issue concerns economic and third matters with the final state. So, Mr President, I did not take any interest when the Minister spoke more and as it turns out some explanations were needed. Mr Constantinidis is now speaking on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure being discussed is a process in which we all know the outcome in advance, so the question is: What is its purpose? In any case, the corresponding procedure has never thrived on the most fragile majorities in the past. Mr Tsipras was therefore unable to expect that this would cause the government to fall. However, since it was not in the constitutional and the Rules of Procedure of the House that the statement was called into question, then what was its objective? Did he want to highlight the weakness of the state for recent weather events? On the contrary. If he wanted to have a substantial debate or even an impression on civil protection, he would have made it a one-thematic one at the level of the leaders in order to examine all aspects of the case and possibly obtain any political benefits. So why is Mr. Tsipras relocating from the argument? Is it seeking a conflict over all of the conflict material? That doesn't make sense either. Just a month ago, there was an exhaustive debate on the budget. In addition, this process gives us the right to defend the rich work produced, in fact, in the form of conflicts. So you understand that, in addition to this, the procedure that has been provoked inevitably leads to comparisons. Not us. The citizen. The citizen who thinks: What would have happened if, instead of the current government, SYRIZA was in things? What about the pandemic? The Minister for Health has been extensively mentioned. Do you think the citizen forgets your messy opposition to this dramatic case that began with the monumental expression of support 'we will be accountable for later' and continued with that logic 'what the government says we support the contrary'? Do you think that the citizen forgets the affliction of the reasonable misery caused by the restrictive measures, the hydration of reactions and concentrations at the height of the pandemic, your insane urge to give all the aid from the outset, which, given the length of the health crisis throughout the world, would have led to a collapse of the Greek economy? Do you think the citizen forgets your popular bid at every professional at the same time as you did not vote on the measures that we were legislating against, your vertical opposition to any interventions which are governmental to deal with the phenomenon, teleworking and compulsoryity? You even objected to punishing the spread of false health news. What would have happened, then, does the citizen say, with the vaccinations, if you were in the matter? Do you think the world forgets your Leader's question about the vaccine, about its inadequacy, about its free disposal to the citizens, about the exposement, about your ambiguous statements of top officials on the necessity of vaccination, the impact on the end, which might have had this lasting conflict and questioning the government's work for people who might have had the reservation? Would it, however, have been possible, if you were in the matter, to implement the digital revolution in the country with the incredible facilities to prescribe, with messages on the cell phone, with the tablets on the doctors for vaccination, with hundreds of applications throughout the public administration, the issue of millions of digital certificates and, ultimately, the deterrence of the natural presence of citizens and their exposure to the coronary? Do you have the citizen to think about whether you would have done better on development than you have done in every forecast, which you predicted for 2020 two-digit recession, and finally you fell out, predicting 2021 sloppy growth, and, finally, you folded out, saying that half the businesses would be closed and, ultimately, the balance proved positive, which you said would increase sharply, and ultimately fell to the lowest levels since 2010, to 13%? Who, then, are you talking about? The citizen sees you bet on the disaster and, on the other hand, the country becomes an investment destination for business colossals, all the organisations provide sustainable, stable growth for the next few years and Greece is being upgraded to all indicators. And then he remembers your own performance and numbness. Does the citizen think, however, that they would do better in the economy, in the family, if you like, budget? And then what? And then he remembers what you had done, the memorials you'd rip. He remembers how you broke up - I am not saying what Mr Paulakis said - in the middle class. Recalls the ENVY you would abolish, the income tax it paid on your day, remembers the insurance contributions that were worse than taxes, the VAT increase, the 100% tax advance paid on SYRIZA and the low heating allowance. He remembers how much a father paid for his possessions on SYRIZA, remembers the twenty - nine rafts that you imposed on him and spit on his child. And today, people see this all changing for the better, the reductions that started from the first day. And they see a government of every positive news making it a dividend to society -- 43 billion aid during it to deal with the health crisis, 1.35 billion in the last four months of 2021 for the energy crisis, 400 million for the support of citizens only in January; they see a second increase in wages, pay those affected by natural disasters. And all this without upsetting the national economy! And he also sees a Prime Minister finally recognizes mistakes. And do you know what that recognition means? Not just of apologies, but that we need to deal with them, that a process begins to improve. That's the point. And he remembers the badly played short films he watched in corresponding crises a few years ago. And since comparison is political massage for SYRIZA, then why is the motion of distrust? It was not for the government, but for Tsipras to become the leader of the Repression. And you did it because you forced the other opposition parties to move behind you. To capture KINAL, SYRIZA and Tsipras did so to expose Mr. Androylakis, who, on the one hand, calls for elections and on the other, refuses them. SYRIZA did so to secure the role of Officer Response, and what he was able to do was to secure the title of the worst Officerial Response from the Migration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u197	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Vernardakis now has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u198	The motion of censure must be accepted: the Mitsotakis Government is not a typical parliamentary government, even on the right. The Mitsotakis Government is a closed system for serving great interests. Even the Party of New Democracy as a body representing even customer relations, has little influence on governance. The government's strategic objective is to implement a neoliberal restructuring, a structural economic and social strengthening of large capital. This process is implemented by an avalanche of targeted privatization and has implications for the entire range of social and economic life. The government of the Mitsotakis system has the following characteristics: it is the administrative branch of a tough economic interest bloc. It is the area of economic and political power. It is the administrative modulation of dependence on the oligarchy of the political elite. It has organograms, work-sharing and decision-making process that are specific to an anonymous company structure. It is supported by a structured system of technical scales that operate intermediately with the various economic or collective lobbys, bypassing the entire legal-administrative framework of state institutions. Below is right-hand cutting practices, marking a return to forwarding forms of governance with manageric pseudo-reform cloak. It introduces an overthrowing, trumpet and authoritarian motif that evades from the context of urban representative democracy. It is a sign of authoritarianism, of selective effectiveness only in terms of privatisation, generalised corruption and inefficiency, incompetence or even indifference to solve social problems and, indeed, directly. So why does he have to go? Because it has been politically undermined by private interests in the health sector for two and a half years now and indeed a pandemic. Secondly, a large-scale attack on the field of education and, above all, higher education, for the benefit of private interests, with purely class choices at the expense of education and social development, through mobility, children of popular classes. Not only did it fail to implement telematics adequately, but it found the opportunity to literally sell the personal data of one and a half million citizens to multinational data management and trading and metadata, which is a serious criminal offence, for which those responsible will answer. It did this in a completely opaque terms and an excellent goal for the election of the large data to its advantage. Thirdly, it has completely failed on the issue of civil protection, not only in the last snow. It was unable to regain the biggest ecological disaster the country experienced with the spring and summer fires of 2021. It still weakens the legal and administrative protection framework even as protected habitats by handing over all the ecological and natural environments of the country to private rafts and speculators. Instead of creating and energising a new operational and scientific organisation to address the threats of the climate crisis, he created a new Ministry, betraying frightening ignorance of data. The climax of the state of staff is the unprecedented failure of the census for the first time in the history of the modern Greek state. Fifthly, in the field of energy policy, with its unilateral approach to forms of energy that favour particular private interests and with the completion of the process of privatising PPC in terms of almost plundering, it has created an increase in energy prices and has led to an uncontrolled increase in life costs, a situation which is not only the wrong choice, not the weakness, but the political choice. It follows a policy of dismantling culture, extermination of creators, obscene privatization of antiquities and monuments, dismantling copyright, unprecedented 'poor' inspirational covert corruption in the Ministry of Culture. He failed in the security issues of the citizens, but led to the police arbitrary and barbaric situations. The political order and security did not prevent increased and uncontrolled crime, the cleansing of the underworld's accounts, with murders even day after day. The current Mitsotakis Government does not legislate badly, by mistake, or on the basis of miscalculations. Here I will agree with the colleagues in the New Democracy, all the instruments are the resolutions of consistent service to its strategic political project. It has, in the midst of a pandemic, legislated the abolition of working rights for decades. Concentration of this anti-grassroots policy is the ongoing privatization of insurance, one of the biggest business of this government. It has legislated a punishing bankruptcy code that is generally directed against the people's classes, the middle layers and the middle and small entrepreneurship, which, in the case of financially weak debtors, touches the limits of the bracelet. It has legislated not only the impunity of bankers, managers and executives who have implemented or carried out unlawful financial operations, but also their ex ante exemption for future criminal offences. All of this is a fertile ground for the euphoria of generalised corruption of transgressive and non-stated insurrectional perception and authoritarianism. It is a danger for democracy, for development, for society and even for the independence of foreign policy. From today's position, therefore, the government cannot escape. A generalised social outcry is fading all over the country. The request for elections is, of course, not addressed to the government, the Prime Minister and the Members of the New Democracy. They do not intend to leave power unless the economic oligarchy plans are completed. The request for elections is addressed to the Greek people, to the democratic political parties, to the unions, to the self-organisation networks of society and youth, because the motto "go away!" is the slogan that must be shaken from below the Greek territory in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with three rhetoric questions and one observation. First question: is there anyone here or any fellow Member here who believes that in a few hours' time now, when the procedure of distrust of SYRIZA will be completed, will he thrive? From whatever side, we're leaving the government from SYRIZA from the Change Movement. Answer: I think that, in expressing the opinion of all of you, no one believes that this motion of censure will thrive, that is to say it will bring political effect to the government. What's actually gonna happen? In fact, the Government, the New Democracy in particular, will come out more powerful, possibly more broad and more powerful than this process, more cohesive and at the same time, will also be given the opportunity for a vote of confidence to be converted into a vote of confidence. This will be the political outcome of the SYRIZA political initiative. Recital 2: When must the motion of censure be submitted and by what procedure, this constitutional possibility toward Census, to other parties given by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution, to Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House in particular? What has been historically proven and political experience itself shows is that you are exploiting this political tool, when you see two things political in front of you, either you see that there is a loss of MPs from the government, so it is shattered, so you are now leading it with the motion of distrust to its fall, or when you see a real disharmony between society and government. I again reply to the two questions I raise as a prerequisite for the motion of censure: Do you see the government majority being shaken? Answer: No. Do you see a disharmony between society and government? But the polls all, but all - all - but all! - confirm the opposite, that the government is too strong in the conscience of the world. So, what's actually going on? Why is this antique, why the use of this constitutional weapon on the part of SYRIZA? It is quite simply because the use of this constitutional capacity by the Anti-Population Officer was not intended to reduce the government, but other issues, internal issues or balances with the Change Movement. This is the reality of the SYRIZA political initiative. But let me also make a political leap of my own thinking. I believe that even if you could see that the government majority is in danger of falling on your initiative today, if you were to see this, you would not, because it works at the end of the process and the instinct of self-reservation. And because you do not want to commit suicide politically in an election process, you would not go ahead with such a political initiative, a motion of censure, if you could see that it would thrive. That's the reality. The third question: Are you happy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, majority MPs, with this picture presented in bad weather? Answer: No. It was a sad picture confirming that there were uncertainties, failures and errors that must not be repeated. However, politically, the element of political bravery has also been shown to exist. And political bravery, because no one claims infallibility, is to recognise your mistake and to improve in the future through mistakes and experiences. The brave apology of the Prime Minister and sincere apologies confirm what I'm saying. And it wasn't just the Prime Minister's. The entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, and that is to its credit, did not hide any Member behind his finger, confirmed what I am saying. They recognized that this image was not the one that should be for our country. Errors were made and there were failures. But we also had the political bravery to recognise it and say publicly apologies from the Prime Minister to all of our Members. And this is called political bravery, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. But I'm obliged to defend some things too. I will not go into the procedure to say that we inherited an office - the argument used by the Members of the New Democracy - and we turned it into a Ministry by showing our interest. I'll put that aside. However - and we must not be miserable and miserable - that in the part of civil protection what was done for the first time at a glossy speed, which has no precedent, is the restoration of those affected, Mr Pappa. In other words, in all the disasters that have so far occurred from earthquakes in Samos, "Medea", "Jan" the government's response to cover the whole world affected by the disasters was unprecedented. And I say it in the capacity of the Member and the Minister that we moved into another context of high speed and reaction to cover the world. All the disasters that have been done prove and confirm what I am saying, which must not be overlooked, because it has been a positive step in responding to society's demand to deal with through the civil protection of those affected in all kinds of disaster. And I would like to make one final point. As a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, let me say that by expressing the Members of the New Democracy and because we are not ungrateful we owe a great and resounding thank you to the SYRIZA side. We owe a great and resounding thank you in that they gave us the opportunity, after about a month and a half of the debate on the budget, to have the top political parliamentary procedure with all the Members of the New Democracy who have been placed, to argue again and to highlight the huge reform work that has been done at all levels, structural changes, solutions to problems of years and decades, reform work that the country and Greece needed. And you have given us this opportunity through the motion of censure. I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to read a point on your proposal, which is here. You are not just talking about the bad weather, but you say that the government's administration by Kyriakos Mitsotakis is inadequate, self-interested, with self-interested decisions that do not correspond to the needs of society, with strategic choices that go against society and what must be done. This is one of the three points you raise in your motion of censure. So you are opening the agenda to discuss all the matter with us. So you are making us a motion of censure. For what? I see, in front of me, the good colleague, Alexiadis Typhoon, and because he is aware of the subject, I say that speaking on the entire government agenda will be difficult in time, but I will tell you a few things. Are you making a motion of censure to us, Mr Alexiadis, because we have reduced HNVIA by 22% and there is another reduction in HNVIA through the additional tax on HNVIA, a new legislative initiative? Are you making us a motion of censure because we reduced from 22% to 9% the import tax to natural persons and 1,000 euros tax free for every protected young child? Are you making a motion of censure for reducing the company tax from 29% to 22% by giving us a growth dynamic in our country's economy? Are you making us a motion of censure because we reduced the dividend tax from 10% to 5%, contributing to the attractiveness of the investment climate that the country needs to have in order to create jobs? Are you making us a motion of censure because we reduced the tax advance from 100% to 55% for natural persons and from 100% to 80% for legal persons? Is that why you're making a motion of censure? You make us a motion of censure because we have created the parental tax-free provision up to EUR 800,000 - look, not EUR 800,000, up to EUR 800,000 - and have enabled thousands of parents to transfer their property at this time with a tax of zero? In other words, the property of 100,000 euros tax of zero, 200,000 euros tax of zero, 300,000 euros tax of zero. And 200,000 euros is the objective value of a house or 150,000 euros, a zero tax. Today you resign and ask for a motion of censure why? Because we have abolished the solidarity levy in the private sector and we have said that this because it is a temporary measure we have to keep it in both 1923 and the international community and extend it to the public sector. Are you making a motion of censure to reduce VAT on a number of products in medicines and on a number of important products that the world needs to consume? Are you making a motion of censure for the 1.3 billion we gave to tackle the last quarter of 2021 of the energy crisis and the 400 million we gave now in the first month of 2022 for the energy crisis, or for the EUR 43.7 billion to deal with the '20-21' pandemic and the first month of '22'? Is that what you're suggesting to us of reproach? And now I'm going to take it a little further into a piece that also concerns my portfolio as the Minister of Labour, in which SYRIZA is trying over time - not now - in general the Left to show that it is highly sensitive. I recognize your sensitivity. I do not grant you, however, and we do not grant you the right to say that you are the fully aware of social policy, because here it is not just a wishful or verbal approach, yes, I am sensitive to workers, against unemployment or who will cover the weak social groups. That's a wish. We all want it. In practice, with political decisions and legislative initiative, how do you prove this? So I come to make a very quick approach, because it is worth reminding of social policy and sensitivity that is always at the top of your agenda, in the insurance that is of value and you mentioned it several times. Yes, we, ladies and gentlemen, are the government that brought Law 4670/2020. This law we all know will be staying for many, many years. It's a law that condensates the answer to the insurance. I know very well that this is the first time that it has come together with a proportionate study in the history of the country and has come with documentation from the Economic University of Greece about the adequacy of pensions. This is the initiative. For the first time, e-EFKA is created in the country on 1 March 2020. We unified all the funds. I'm opening a parentheses. I have now come to the conclusion that one of the main reasons that SYRIZA fell was his choice in insurance against a million and a half free professionals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, self-employed and farmers. It was your huge mistake. We are also consistent in what we have said, and we have made the most of the innovatory accusations, which each free trader now has the right to choose his own free insurance charges. It's something innovative, unprecedented. And after that, we moved on to special treatment for farmers with a favourable insurance scheme for all the young people in the first five years and did not return the money, as required by the SYRIZA insurance law. Pensioners, pensioners, retired persons, gave them the right to receive all pensioners to normally receive 70% of their pensions and work, recognising how important pensioners are in our country, in our country's productive process. And at the same time, the system's innovation is that, from 30 years on and over, ladies and gentlemen, by creating and cultivating insurance, everyone will receive an increased pension, motivating everyone to want their trademarks to be visible, their insurance history and not hidden. There are many others, which are of value. The last uncertainty of the insurance is the outstanding pensions. So I say to you that on the question of e-ECA, on its own and without any intervention, after 2025 - I repeat, without intervention! - all pensions will come out automatically and we have said so before. The effort we made was with the digital pension "ATLAS" to move forward with this gap in the current pensions, that is, for something that would end in 2025, to close the gap. All the others will go out automatically because of the update of the insurance matter. That's how Law 4670 is made. And the digital 'ATLAS' pension in the first step - listen to this, because I accept a few criticisms - which was implemented, for widow's pensions and OGA pensions, has given so far, since June 2020, fifty-one thousand pensions in one second! Fifty thousand pensioners took their pensions in one second, widow’s and OGA pensions. The other three steps are coming up. And I now come to the issues of other social policy that are more important. Yeah, we're the party that made the minimum guaranteed income. We're proud of that. It was the Samara government that started it, SYRIZA continued it, despite the fact that he called it a "poverty trap" and the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis came and guaranteed it constitutionalally. Is that or isn't that socially sensitive? And you're making us a motion of censure because we're constitutionally ensuring the minimum guaranteed income? Or should I mention the issue of undeclared work, 'ERGAN 1'? The undeclared work in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has been dealt with. 42.3% of February 2013 has fallen below 4% - that's the truth - with "ERGAN 1". And now comes 'ERGAN 2', which we voted on in Parliament. It is the digital hour, innovative, as well as the 'ERGAN 1' and 'ERGAN 2' - probably around the world, in Europe, for sure - which will address the new phenomenon that has emerged - and you are right about it - the implied work and the digital hour. "ERGAN 2" will be dealt with definitively. And not to say 'definitive', to a devastating extent, we will also hit the supposed work, and that is a consciousness and common place for everyone. I'm sure SYRIZA's side wants that too. And there is a lack of "ERGAN 3", which will replace the detailed periodical statement submitted today by the accounting agencies - this we made in 2013, electronic and monthly - and the insurance material will be taken through the "ERGAN" system. At the same time - and I am closing with this - on the last issue that sounds about unemployment and the sensitivity to unemployment, I agree. Who wants unemployment in our country? Nobody. Neither we nor you. The point is how you deal with her. With words and wishes or real policies? So our policies and reforms since 2012 - 2014 began to bear fruit. The write-down of unemployment began, and today, ladies and gentlemen, with the government of Mr Mitsotakis - I have the data, I will submit them, because we need to speak with information and not with air words, which have no real impact - we have the following: July 2019: The Mitsotakis Government receives unemployment of 17.3%. These are ELSTAT data monthly. November 2021, the latest ELSTAT data: unemployment at 13.3%, four points below. So, it didn't reduce unemployment? Aren't we fighting in that direction? Please submit ELSTAT's figures, which are reliable, so that we can discuss them. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close with the last one, which I consider to be crucial and important. The policies that we have followed have brought about a reduction in unemployment. One of them - which you gave up on us and did not vote on - which was crucial because it increased the income of all the workers in the country and stimulated employment growth, was a reduction in contributions. This New Democracy Government - something that also happened to the Samara Government and now to the Mitsotakis Government - has made a historic decision. In 2012 - 2014, insurance contributions decreased six units, including by government Mitsotakis, in 2019 - 2022, decreased 3.9 points, a total of about 10 units. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. And these results of the policies - which you are giving up today and which you want the government to fall - bring down unemployment. So here's who the real socially sensitive are. So here is who, in practice, is facing problems, such as the minimum guaranteed income, which is the major intersection in supporting the weak. It is the biggest political intervention in the newer political history of the country, which we have now built a system that embraces the weak. In addition, in a strange way - look out - we also increased the minimum guaranteed income. From 2019 until today at the end of each year we have intervened in legislation and I believe that, if there is budgetary capacity, it will be guaranteed forever, namely in December, that we give the 13th fee to the minimum guaranteed income on a permanent and permanent basis, and that will increase the minimum guaranteed income. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this is a government that needed place. The Greeks needed it, because this government believes in optimism, believes in the Greeks, believes in the household and actually came to a crucial moment for the country to change a page, to move Greece forward, to inflame once again the optimism sought by the Greek people. And this government of Mr. Mitsotakis has come to stay and will stay for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, time...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u203	Would you like to speak on the microphone, Mr. Colleague, for suggesting something to me? You want to tell me exactly what you're telling me? On the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u204	I'm just wondering, Madam President, if you've seen the time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u205	I too am asking myself, Mr Colleague - because you are six years in here - if you know how much the time of Parliament as a whole is.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u206	I'm not six years, I'm from 2019. Don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u207	Am I mistaken about the time of the parliamentary representative? I know very well. It's 16.5 and three, a total of twenty-one minutes. I say so that we can be consistent and not be hinted again. Thank you very much. Mr Nicolakopoulos has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is about two and a half years since Greek citizens voted for a vote of confidence and a clear mandate for the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis to form a strong government and to implement a reform programme for a new Greece. It is clear that within this period the government has faced major crises, major challenges, which had never been faced with any government in Migration. We have faced the crisis in immigration, receiving an uncontrolled situation, with open sea borders, with overcrowded structures in disrespectful conditions, with asylum procedures plunging into bureaucracy. This has all resulted in a hybrid attack on Evros, on our borders, which we successfully renounced. Today citizens know that both borders are guarded and flows and population have fallen. The conditions in the structures are human, while the asylum procedures are fast running. We were faced with the uprooting of Turkish provocation, which reached the Southeast Mediterranean. The Greek fleet, the Greek Armed Forces, and our diplomatic actions also gave the answer, protecting Greek sovereignty and Greek sovereign rights. We strengthened the Greek Armed Forces, as had not been done for many years, and we built strong alliances, shielding the country and strengthening its geostrategic and geopolitical position. We have faced and are still facing a pandemic that has tried all the countries of the world, causing large losses everywhere in human lives, a pandemic that has tested a problem, with pathogens of age, a public health system. In this unprecedented situation, our country has taken us relatively better than many other developed countries, while the public health system, which we strengthened as soon as possible, has endured when more organised systems have failed. We have properly organised the 'Freedom' operation for citizens' vaccination, with the aim of having every citizen access to vaccination as soon as possible. We have faced the climate crisis, which has emerged with extraordinary and extreme weather, with flooding, with large fires. We have managed to protect human lives and to form a flexible and rapid process for compensation to our affected fellow citizens and we are fighting the battle for an advanced civil protection mechanism. In managing all crises, in addressing all these challenges, comparisons with your own governance are inevitable and the conclusions are self-evident and catalytic. In all these crises, the challenges you have not supported anywhere, you have never put back on everything you said 'no'. You have neither voted for the compulsory vaccination in health, nor for the defensive agreement with France, nor for the defensive costs, nor much but. In all these crises you have invested only in splitting and polarising with voices and sterile criticism, you have always invested in destruction. You do so now, even by putting forward a motion of censure on the occasion of the management of an extreme weather phenomenon. Once again, you show your inexhaustible hypocrisy, since it is now obvious that the motion of censure is aimed at covering your own internal and electoral concerns. Is it the first time that extreme weather has led to a civil break in traffic and suffering? In other countries it is happening more often. A few days ago, it happened in Washington, resulting in thousands of drivers being locked into a main road for twenty-seven hours. Has this been a serious argument for criticism by the opposition? And I am not just talking about the motion of censure. We have not heard great populists in other countries attempting to exploit politically such incidents. This phenomenon, however, has also happened in Greece. It may not be frequent and certainly the state mechanism is not used to dealing with such extremes, but it is not the first time. In December 2017, for example, we had a government SYRIZA, for at least eight hours, hundreds of cars were enclosed, forming tails that reached nearly fifteen kilometers in Athens - Lamia due to snow. We should go a little earlier, in the days of PASOK, when in March 2011, in the highway of Athens, Lamia, hundreds of cars were immobilized and drivers were trapped for many hours. A possible way of preventing such a situation would be a decision to restrict or ban traffic. But when, on 15-2-2021, we decided to close the Athens-Lamia National Road to prevent the danger of life and suffering for the citizens during the bad weather of "Medea" then, the Responsibility Response and Tsipras himself and the KINAAL have been very critical. What is the warning difference in the management of these situations? In neither of the old situations we have heard an apology from someone. Of course, we have not even heard any more tragic situations in Mandra or Matti. On the contrary, we heard your ministers looking for mistakes and not finding them. We heard he wouldn't offer a 2,000 euro compensation to the firemen. In neither of the previous situations was asked by a private company that was responsible for redressing the people who suffered suffering and none of them were compensated for, and indeed by a law such as the one that our Government voted. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to be confused with this failed 'yes' which you in the Democrat Opposition are expressing. We create another Greece that is brighter, a Greece that is strong, with confidence, a leader in developments, with diplomatic initiatives and strategic alliances that enhance its geopolitical position that seeks peace and stability in the region, but is capable of protecting its sovereignty and sovereign rights, with powerful Armed Forces. We are creating a Greece with a strong economy, which inspires confidence in our partners and international markets. This reduces taxes and social security contributions and encourages private investment. It attracts investment from large international companies with an emphasis on innovation and high technologies, but also with a state that intervenes and supports citizens. Which supported households and businesses with over 43 billion in the unprecedented pandemic conditions. It reduces unemployment and subsidizes work with employment programmes and the creation of new jobs. Which supports our weakest fellow citizens. With a state that makes digital leaps, which strengthens the sense of security of the citizens, which acts as a "green" transition and always operates with respect to the fundamental institutions of the culture. We create this Greece and we still have a lot of work and a lot of time. And at the end of the four-year period, we'll all be judged. As for the motion of censure, we will see how much longer it will keep you in second place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Loverdos has the floor on behalf of the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is taking place in the context of the almost supreme way of control available to the House. Above him, resentment, distrust, are the committees of inquiry. The government says its own, the opposition controls, and they match a number of standards. A model is Javert's and a model is that of consistent parliamentary control. I will follow the second way of exercising opposition. What brought us to this Chamber? The motion of censure contains three topics. What, though, has caused the debate that extends to two of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u211	I'm guessing you don't mean, Andreas, that the government is Yiannis Agiannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u212	It was caused by bad weather, ladies and gentlemen. And that's not the point of wondering, drawing up phrases of history, it's throwing them away, but who's to blame for the way this was managed in the context of a debacle that was actually suffered by the government. There's the matter of control. There was a debacle. And to mention and raise the issue of climate change is not serious. Climate change exists, affects too many things, must be addressed. We welcomed the establishment of the Ministry of Civil Protection, but by saying that this is the cause of climate change, I think you're not making fun of anyone, but making fun of yourself. Neither the shifting of the issue to civil liability solves the problem and gives way out, however much as we have heard from the former Prime Minister that "why would I give you two grand, you will eat it, you will waste it", no matter how wrong. And it is useful to operate civil liability before poor civilian goes to court and does ten years. No matter how useful, that's not our point. You can't even avoid your political responsibility when you're a government. Were there any prevention? Obviously. I had spoken, ladies and gentlemen, with our colleague, Giannis Callianos, on Sunday before Monday's bad weather and "with the feeling and the sniper" had predicted what would happen in the next three days. "With the stigma and the stigma"! And he fell into everything he had told me. When you send us messages, SMS, be careful, your role is not exhausted. The digital state does not replace the State. The digital method is a method, it's not a policy substance. You knew, but you crucified your hands and waited passively. I, ladies and gentlemen, am not a professional opposition MP and I do not hesitate to separate my position from my party. When Chrysochoid in "Medea" closed the Athens-Lamia street and my opposition and party then said "but why do you close it?" I went out and said that if I was Minister, I would close it. When Christos Stylianides became Minister of the summer, some of the party told me that "good, we do a foreign Minister?" As if there were no Cranidiot, as if there were no Akritas, I said that "a joy is Greek from the second state of Hellenism". Let's see what that Greek did now that he took this duty? He didn't do anything. He was organizing conferences. I will not dwell on what happened in these meetings. They got me, so we can hear them to see if the government's right. But decisions he didn't make. It has not made decisions, such as the decisions made by the competent authorities, I think the Regional Director and the Minister of Education, to close schools. Decisions not to release heavy goods vehicles were not taken. Decisions relating to the movement of citizens were not taken. You let the half work and when you said "go home", people made traffic more difficult in Athens city. What did you do? What are you predicting? You didn't foresee anything. What are you going to tell us now? You'll be transferring responsibility. That's hideous! 'It is the 'Attica Street'. Maybe it's his fault. 'It's because of the District Administrator.' Maybe it's his fault. 'It is the mayors' fault. Maybe they're to blame. Are you not to blame anywhere and is the Prime Minister content with an apology which he calls it many times? He relieves him of the problems created under his own responsibility or is so great and his apologies satisfy us to say "It's okay, let's stay 20 hours on Attica Street, after he apologized, everything's fine." It's not like that. There are responsibilities. And when there are responsibilities, they are paid off. And when you accept political responsibility, it means you have to resign. Ladies and gentlemen, this is happening, like that on Monday, when there are no classified and delimited responsibilities. When you made the Ministry of Civil Protection, weather phenomena and other related phenomena, we assumed that you would solve the problem of who has the final decision. If it's not one, it's nobody. This is a start of all advanced administrative systems. Where there's no one, the final one, there's no one. So as you turned the debate into a transfer of responsibilities, it seemed that from August - September - then this ministry became - I do not say that it could have done anything, but I say it could have delimited responsibilities and the final responsibilities, which was not done. And so everything goes well, but as George Scampardonis said, "all goes well against the citizens, against the citizens". That's the situation. One doesn't exist. And again, it is hideous that the "created" "Attica Street" - which it is to blame - is "created by the district chief" - at least the schools are closed, blamed on others - "the mayors are to blame". It's not the Minister's fault. He did fine, and the ministry coordinated. "This shape is better than the precedent." The answers are given at political level and for us they have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u214	I shall conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we had the "Mode". "Medea" has mostly hit my region. For months I asked the House questions about who has the responsibility to collect the branches. "We'll come summer and we'll burn," I said. For months there have been the controversy. It is the municipality's responsibility, it is the district's responsibility, the government has no responsibility, but it does. One should cut the trunk, another to remove it. This has still not been solved. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] With the power of the example - and this I will close my position - I am making a reference to management, which has been done in cases of weather or force majeure. I remember very well how we worked as a party and as a government in 1999 with the earthquake in Parnitha, I remember how they operated in 2018 in Matti and how you and in summer, a form of government, and how you now acted in your second governmental shape. You are inferior to the circumstances. You are inferior to the needs of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u215	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u216	What this House should think about is whether, in a subsequent weather situation of such tension, we will say the same here again. It is a shame for the country to have this political system! It is shameful for you that you manage two and a half years the fates of the country and when something has happened to you, you have always been behind the circumstances and needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u217	We will give the floor now to the Foreign Minister, Mr Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed here today after ten years of economic crisis, two years of pandemic, two years of almost constant crisis in national issues, a permanent, outrageous crisis in migratory and given the consequences of climate change. These conditions impose maturity on political dialogue and I think that the previous speaker, my friend, Mr Andreas Loverdes, rightly said that. In other words, it presupposes that everyone must exercise their institutional role with maturity, which acquires the political system through its course in these multiple crises. The government, the Prime Minister, has said so from the outset, perceived the criticism of Antipopulation as absolutely essential, even the strong criticism when the conditions would justify it. However, the element of maturity, ladies and gentlemen, is the tabling of a positive proposal, not just of criticism. Acidification is one thing. Survival in emotional reaction is another thing. So let us be here sincere among us. Motion of censure submitted. A proposal for improvement was not submitted by Opposition, either the major or the minor. The aim is to stimulate reflexes, not to conduct intelligent dialogue. On the issue of bad weather there were obviously mistakes and it is clear that the "Attica Street" did not fulfil its obligations. She exposed the citizens and exposed her clients to incredible suffering. These responsibilities are investigated by both the Prosecutor and the administration. The difference is, however, how the government approachs the mistakes and I have to say that the Prime Minister directly recognised the responsibility. He apologized to the citizens, - and this is unprecedented - for the immediate compensation of citizens by private concessionaires and assesses what happened. We are also awaiting the proposals from the Opposition, because we must bear in mind that a number of phenomena such as those experienced by the country will be seen more often because of climate change and corrections. However, there has been no proposal that there should be no proposal on which these corrections should be made. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come to the area where I have the responsibility of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. We have produced and implemented, with the support of the vast majority of the Greeks, a differentiated policy. We did not stay locked in the usual, indoor dialogue on Greek and Cypriot and did not go into the dead-end party confrontations about major and minor patriotism. We have not sought to resolve the past through foreign political parties' accounts of the past. We acted like a European country. I told you in the government's programming statements that we would be the most important European country in the Balkans and I think that everyone now treats us like that. We have therefore faced our Balkan presence not as a geographical condemnation, but as a mission to export stability, prosperity, a European course for all countries in the region: Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, northern Macedonia, Montenegro. We faced Ottoman, Turkish aggression as a headline of understanding to those who believe in International Law and International Maritime Law, no matter how far away they are from our region. We have diagnosed in the pandemic our obligation to help beyond our borders in fulfilling our universal duty. The mandate I have from the Prime Minister is for every Greek to have offered a vaccine to another fellowman on the planet. So we have clearly seen that Greece must go beyond its escapades, to broaden its horizons, to gain contact with countries in which our merchant fleet ships are sailing, which are our outward business, which can seek markets for our products. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the problems, the performance of the Mitsotakis Government remains significant at all levels. It was not only the health system in which inevitably the pandemic dropped the greatest weight. The economy has endured, society has endured. Indicators of recovery, growth, appear positive. The Mitsotakis Government made Greece a secure investment destination. Reform is going on and the country, after many years, is significantly strengthened by modern defence instruments. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is changing. The structures are being modernised. A single diplomat industry is being established. Strategic design is created with effective and mainly measurable targets. The long-term cancer of the Translation Service has been resolved. All services provided within and outside Greece to citizens shall be digitised. However, the most important thing - and to be honest, ladies and gentlemen - was achieved with the support of a large majority in this House - and I must acknowledge this - in thirty months' time, what was required for about half a century. Because the EEZ delimitation agreements with Italy and Egypt were not self-evident. They led to the first expansion of the national space after World War II and to the treatment of the invalid and illegal Turkish memorial. It was not obvious that the agreement, understanding to refer the matter to Albania for demarcation to the International Court of The Hague, because it established the view that Greece can reach agreement with all its neighbours under international law. Strategic cooperation agreements with the United States and United States-Greece Partnership Act were not self-evident. They strengthen our country's defence, lead Greek-American relations to their highest historical point. The strategic agreement with France, which brings the only nuclear power of the European Union and a permanent member of the Security Council in the Eastern Mediterranean, was not at all self-evident. The agreements with the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, which create bridges to and from the Gulf, were not self-evident. The tripartite and multilateral partnerships that we have promoted in the region are not self-evident. I am referring in particular to 3+1, Cyprus - Greece - Israel and the United States. It is not self-evident to reactivate our country in the resolution of crises from Libya to Syria. We have been absent, ladies and gentlemen, from Syria and Libya. Libya is a 20-minute flight from Crete. And we paid it dearly. It is not obvious that Philia Forum, the signing of the common principles of the Law of the Sea by a large number of countries. The presence of a Greek Minister in Rwanda, Gambia, Ghana, Nigeria, soon in Senegal, Chad, Cape Verde, which enlarges our geopolitical footprint, expands our economic footprint. The diplomacy of vaccines was not self-evident. It was not self-evident that the Indian Foreign Minister's first visit after twenty years. We revealed with the Mayor of Athenians Mr. Bakoyannis the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. I mention it because today is the anniversary of his death. It is not a self-evident level of our relations with the members of the Security Council. It is not at all normal or self-evident that the present government since its appointment has signed eighteen bilateral agreements and thirty-nine multilateral agreements. There is no similar precedent in Transmigration. It goes without saying that Greece was first elected to votes in the International Maritime Organisation. We were voted for one hundred and fifty-seven. We were elected second by the first round in the UNESCO World Heritage Committee with nineteen votes. One hundred and twelve UN member states supported our decision on the safety of journalists. And it was not at all obvious that we now have ninety-seven written commitments for our election to the Security Council in the period 2025-2026. We'll make a announcement about this in the week. Ladies and gentlemen, by order of Mr Mitsotakis, I have sought to see the national lines, especially when the country faces existential threats, and that is what I will continue to do. In the next few days, there will be another information cycle for party directors. Because the government does not treat foreign policy as a feud. I come to Greek-Turkish. Greece did not leave any challenge unanswered. We have distributed that we want constructive dialogue and a positive agenda, but on the basis of international law and international maritime law. No one has the right to deceive of Greece's absolute will to defend its sovereignty and sovereign rights. Greece always moves satisfactorily within the framework of International Law and International Maritime Law. Turkey out. Casus belli, Turkish memorial, blue country, over-crowding, ethnic violations, dispute over the sovereignty of the islands, continuing occupation of Cyprus, two-state rhetoric, interventions in other countries, Iraq, Caucasus, Syria, Libya, mass violations of human rights, transformation of monuments of global cultural heritage into mosques. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand something in this Chamber that Turkey has unfortunately changed its course. It is not Turkey which, despite all its peculiarities, looked to the West and to a European direction. Faced with this situation, against the worst situation since 1974, our country has been able to involve aggression. He has achieved something more, taking advantage of the windows of opportunity, to transform his provocation and arrogance threatening to shield and base the right-wing person to the threat. I repeat: we want dialogue with Turkey, but within the framework of law, not dialogue on absurd, illegal demands, not dialogue on illegal acquired assets. Greece is confident. Greece is not a fearful Greece, it is not a marginalized, entrenched Greece. And to make it clear, Greece is not bothering when our partners and allies in the region are talking to Turkey. It is in the interests of all of us that Turkey should have contacts with states that Greece shares the same views. That is to say, Turkey must listen to the same things in many respects and in many mouths. And it would be a good thing if Turkey were to come out of isolation and come back to the European course. Nobody wants an isolated Turkey, an aggressive Turkey, nobody wants an Islamic, new-Ottoman Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to return to the main theme of the debate and end. You will allow me to see things calmly, to see our homeland, beyond the snow, beyond the pandemic. And I would like to tell you that my view is that we need to be proud of Greece. We must be proud of everyone's homeland in this Chamber. Our country, despite the problems, is a modern European country, a modern country with great geopolitical potential. Our country, despite its problems, is a prosperous democracy. That is what today's debate proves. It is a strong Greece, thanks to the delays of the Greek taxpayer, thanks to the exceptional potential of the armed forces, a country of security, stability, tourism, investment destination, a country that is a reliable and constructive interlocutor for all, even in matters that do not concern us directly. Greece serves the Mitsotakis government. This is what the parliamentary majority, namely the New Democracy MPs, who I thank for their struggles, their support and their confidence in the government, serves Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u219	The next speaker is Mr Constantine Maraveyas from New Democracy. Mrs Fotou, Mr Bartzokas, and then the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotopoulos will be followed. Warm request to keep time, because as far as you know at 16.00 hours the speeches of the political leaders will begin. If each speaker has time, I believe that they will speak as many colleagues as possible from the possible initial objective set in the morning and perhaps reach the number of a hundred forty-seven. Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in New Democracy at the very first moment we welcomed the proposal of distrust by SYRIZA and this is why it clearly gives us the opportunity to compare the events of the Mitsotakis Government with those of Mr Tsipras, to see at the end the political morality and the seriousness of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, who are rather desperately struggling to keep the role of Officerial counter-population. The dilemma to the Greek people is clear for this and the New Democracy gives clear answers these three days to the citizens. We all know what the so-called progressive rule of Tsipra would mean for Greece, since we have lived on our side in 2015-2019. From this comparison we had a lot to learn and you will allow me to say what to begin with. I'm going straight to the point and I'm starting with the news. Political Protection: The Prime Minister, both in the Ministerial Council and yesterday in the House, recognised political responsibility, noting sincere omissions and staying firmly away from theatres. On the contrary, what happened the night of the disaster in Matty? Mr. Tsipras convened an improvised TV board, where he covered the reality, refusing to admit the existence of even a burnt fellow citizen. That was the real disrespect to the dead over and before any quote of responsibility in which time would not allow me to stand. In the New Democracy, we have fortunately not had a loss of life from natural disasters which is extremely important, but also not self-evident, as history has shown. Another very important point is compensation to the affected. With Mitsotakis intervention, 2,000 euros will be paid to the exclusions of the Attica Road for their suffering. But what happened when Matty-joyed people asked for Mr. Tsipras' immediate help? The then Prime Minister reluctantly refused to say the incredible "what to do with the two grand boys, since you're going to waste them anyway". Do you want to move on to other chapters? For insurance contributions, our parliamentary representative, Giannis Vroutzis, told them in detail. The Government of New Democracy has not only brought any new taxes, but has reduced a number of additional taxes on SYRIZA. I remind you of them telegraphically: Reducing the ENPI, abolishing the contribution of solidarity, reducing taxes on income and entrepreneurship, abolishing taxes on donations and parental benefits. On the contrary, SYRIZA, with his tax-paying, bleeding out society to create the famous 32 billion-dollar pillow. And, unfortunately, it did not remain in overtaxation. It has linked insurance contributions to the income of the professions, a charge that has been abolished by the New Democracy, and it has relieved millions of free professionals. However, the reduction also led to employee insurance contributions, contributing to a gradual reduction in unemployment by four points from 2019 until today. And other funds could be brought in, like the rule of law. New Democracy changed the Criminal Code received by SYRIZA, who had changed a few days before leaving power. He criticized the sentences for the offences of homicide and sexual freedom. We have increased the penalties for trafficking in human beings and the group rape or for the rape of a minor who is now only provided for in life imprisonment. Another topic: should we also talk about your former partner, Mr Kammenos, who was the principal concern of organising ceremonies and celebrations? In this spirit he was embroidering the beaches and red carpets and a Cuban flag to honor the Naval Battle of Salamis in 2015. Contrary to these graphic phenomena on Tsipras today, the Ministry of National Defence has a serious political leadership, which respect friends and opponents of the country, a leadership that is moving towards a speedy upgrading of our defence material, such as the recent market for new fryers and aircraft from France. All of this at the same time that SYRIZA is voting against defensive expenditure for the first time in the history of the country. It was something that all oppositions have been constantly supporting for decades. Mr Tsipras obviously agrees with his mission, Mr Balafas, who said that 'we do not need equipment because, what to do, we can and can risk it'. These are so bad policies of SYRIZA that, in fact, nobody knows what to first. The borders which do not exist at sea or Mrs Christodoulopoulos's saying that 'immigrants are melted in the center of Athens and then lost as magic'? The difference of ethos and seriousness between New Democracy and SYRIZA is so catalytic that the conclusions are clear. I will conclude, Mr President, with just one question, because SYRIZA put it, namely what New Democracy did and what he would do for the pandemic. Let us consider the nightmare of being the former Deputy Minister of Health, the man who has repeatedly claimed that vaccines do not reduce severe coronary disease, nor even for the omicon variant. As for Mr Polakis, the vaccine is not the answer to the pandemic, it would obviously not do what we did, namely a pilot programme for organised vaccination, which saved tens of thousands of lives in the country. Not to mention the criticism of the pandemic, which, if anyone hears you, believes that the pandemic is only in Greece, that the other countries had no dead. I didn't hear one of you mention that countries with state health systems had been plunged into stadiums. So there is a thank you to SYRIZA, who gave us today the opportunity to remember what happened to our country and to think about what would happen to her if Mr Tsipras was not brought back to power. So with relief that the leadership of Kyriakos Mitsotakis protected Greece and with confidence in the government that leads us to a better future, we are voting against the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u221	Mrs Theanos Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion of censure because the final state has once again collapsed, revealing the crucial moment that its real reason for its existence is not the coordination that Mr Gerapetritis told us this morning. It is to manage the staff of Mr Mitsotakis the state resources with the business elite that holds him in power and appoint the party staff of the New Democracy, high-level and non-state. We have tabled a motion of censure because two and a half years now you are undermining, dismantling, handing over to private public goods and the social state, health, education, insurance, welfare, the only shield for the people and the environment in the new period of climate, health and economic crises. This is evidenced by the twenty - three thousand dead, millions of acres of burning land, hundreds of thousands of people trapped in a precisely proclaimed snowfall. A motion of censure because two and a half years now the government is facing the disabled, children, the elderly, the homeless, the poor and the socially excluded. It keeps the welfare budget down until 2025 to 3.5 billion we delivered to her in 2019. It has the smallest amounts from all the countries of Europe, from the recovery fund, 1.5%, i.e. 480 million, to a total of 32 billion. You do everything you can to return us to the humanitarian crisis you delivered us in 2015. You brought back the energy poverty you delivered to us in 2015, with dead from cut currents, because in 2021, only in one year we had eighty-four dead more than 2012-2015. Mr. Mitsotakis' clipboard and the Deputy Minister's blankets did not prevent the death of the homeless in the snow in the center of Thessaloniki on Tuesday at noon. And I ask: isn't he dead of snow? I have also heard the Minister responsible say 'although a dead man exists, I will resign'. And I ask: isn't the homeless dead? You left the institutions without power, the elderly and the disabled for hours and days helpless. A motion of censure, because you have been accentuating within two and a half years the housing crisis that poorens hundreds of thousands of households and leads them to a new humanitarian crisis. This has been happening since 2019 with the increase of electricity and 2020-2021 with PPC's privatisation, the horizontal specific allowance of EUR 534 - you like the horizontal, the same rich and the poor - of pandemic and the last six months with the energy crisis and inflation. Housing crisis experiences a household when it exhausts over 40% of its incomes in housing, rent, loan, electricity, water, communal, heating or cooling. Do you know how much this proportion is in Europe? 9.9%. Do you know how much that percentage was in 2019 in Greece? It was 32.6%. Do you know where he is today? At 40%, that is, from four hundred thousand million households in the country, one million seven hundred thousand can't make it. In the last three years, rents have increased 32% mid-term and will continue to increase. These are the achievements of your government, with the increase of objective values by 20% in 55% of the country's regions. The effects will be severe for house renters, i.e. 1,041 million house renting houses. In reality you create a new real estate bubble and a dead end in weak and middle layers, with inflation that already consumes 17% of their incomes and the rise in commodities and goods. They will soon have a problem with all these layers, even buying the elementary ones. Proposal for a Parliament and Council directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. You cut them - you did not give the disabled a euro - about 90 million in 2021 and this year 55 million of what you spent in 2019. Of course, you didn't prioritise them in the vaccinations. You have suffered from a hundred and seventy thousand uninsured disabled drugs, treatments and tests, abolishing the law of SYRIZA and obliging them to go to public hospitals in the middle of COVID to write them down. The Athens Medical Association is not SYRIZA. He's asking you to get it back now. One million disabled, promising two thousand staff assistants in total in three years. So how many people are getting a personal assistant? Large delays over a year in the issue of disability pensions for workers who have been damaged and have been passed by CEPR. They call in 1555, the gold-payed 12.1 million telephone center of Mr. Hatzidakis, and take no response from the individuals who took over. Get out of here because you're harming the children of the country! The school lunch contest was cancelled for the first time. One hundred and eighty - five thousand students were left without hot meals until the new year. After the start of schools you started giving them. Just to share 253 million in five big businessmen. You left for the second time eighty-three thousand children with full files outside of nursery and ECHR. You refuse for five months to pay for structures and workers, CIDS, CIDS AEI, municipal and private, and thus jeopardise the institution of CIDs for the first time in the country. You reduced the allowance for disabled children and the families who took it, reduced it and discouraged new contractors by condemning disabled children in a life within the institutions. Otherwise, television shows every day. Shame on you! You are plundering the program of nurseries with the unacceptable nannies of the neighborhood and entering the unacceptable program "BYSHILE", which all scientists have said is contrary to the interests of children, which are harmful and irrelevant to Greek reality. You are being welcomed for the double in newborn costs of EUR 140 million a year, when you were denounced by the opposition - what you were saying! - the increase by 550 million a year in the child's allowance that we gave in 2018 as sufficient. More populist and neoliberal, you die! That's enough! It's time for you to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u223	The next speaker is Mr Bartzokas Anastasios from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, as often as we are acquainted and familiar I would say, but the Greek people with the work of the parliamentary institutions on the part of SYRIZA, which unfortunately reaches the limits of humiliation, still amazes us the size of hypocrisy. And this time with the motion of censure, we are still surprised at your indifference to the country, because at the moment, beyond all others, we are experiencing critical moments because of a pandemic and other issues. So in the altar of your thirst for political survival and your fantasy that power chairs call again your name, sacrifice the political morale. And I say this because only in the last few weeks have you exhausted all the top parliamentary weapons for tactical reasons. But now, unfortunately for you, you cannot make fun of anyone. You cannot make fun of Greek citizens or of course not the government and I fear neither your inner audience. So to the downside of your deterioration that exists not only from the electorate, but above all internally, the parliamentary institutions cannot put a brake on it. When the New Democracy was at the wheel of the country two and a half years ago, the Greek people were mad at a ten-year economic crisis. He was exhausted by the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict and the events of this government, as he promised him that hope would come with a law and an article, which, of course, we all know, was not done. Ultimately, what came up was a memorial above, sad origins in macroeconomic sizes and unemployment, all covered with a curtain of pride. We all remember gatherings, concerts in squares. A pride that unfortunately put the Greek people even deeper into a crisis that she's been experiencing for years. So society trusted us without wearing rabbits and rocks. He trusted us to create another Greece, a Greece where its clocks will be synchronized at world pace, a Greece where its watches would be undone by the stopped time of splitting and barren political confrontations of stagnation and failed example, through real politics rather than investment in scandals. Two and a half years later, even if pandemic blurred the landscape of our political events, the country has now stood on strong, not clay feet. In the area of economic policy, the page of tax raids has been shattered definitively. The reductions in taxes and social security contributions that we have implemented since the first month of the takeover of power have continued even in the midst of a pandemic. In this unfavourable climate of the health crisis we have succeeded in keeping the economy alive, supporting businesses, strengthening households, maintaining jobs and reducing unemployment. When the Civic Opposition was yelling at the beginning of the pandemic, it put forward a motion of distrust to the Minister of Finance and voted against almost all the support measures for business and households, we channelled to the economy money that reached 43 billion euros and we will continue to do so for as long as necessary. We said from the outset that no one will be left alone, and we mean it. So we will continue to reduce the tax burden. We will continue to place our country in the development cycle, so that the next generation does not charge our own broken as it is paid and charged, and our own generation, particularly in the face of the challenges posed by the parallel energy crisis, must and can be even more bold in the support measures we take, but wisely, in order to prioritise the priorities and to prejudge the strengthening of the sectors that are leading in the country. However, we have not progressed only on the part of the economy. We have laid the foundations for a more qualitative national health system, strengthening its staff, improving its infrastructure and correcting chronic problems. From the outset at our heart was the citizen and the whole range of aspects of his life and health. The rapid regeneration rate of the ESS and especially of the primary health we have acquired in the pandemic crisis will keep them, not only because the Recovery Fund and the ESS of the next period gives us the opportunity, but because we have the vision of quality health, more effective care and advanced services for Greek citizens. We will continue to implement our programme for a better Greece, for a better daily life for the Greek citizen. That is why we will not stop implementing reforms throughout the range of public administration, education, justice and the state in order for Greek citizens to gain the prospect that all of us envision, want to stay in the country, make use of their talents and capabilities in Greece and feel proud that their progress also concerns them. Because we want progress and opportunities for all. And because we don't hide our fingers behind, there's obviously been mistakes and failures all this time. In particular, on the occasion of recent bad weather, we all admit, with the Prime Minister first, that we have not yet acquired that level of preparedness necessary in civil protection. We need an organised emergency crisis management strategy. We need excellent operational coordination so that we can respond effectively to conditions that will be more demanding from now on. And after all the painful lessons of recent years for all of us - because this is about all of us - the time has come to do things. Our apologies to the citizens must be redeemable promises. In conclusion, it goes without saying that I am voting against SYRIZA's motion of censure, supporting the government, a government whose identity is the motto of "we said, we did it", against a Dedicated Opposition that is the motto of "this we know, that we do". And we - like citizens - know very well that that's what you do, that's what you're doing, that's what you're doing, arsonists of political order and social peace, growers of fear and reapers of division, fans of the slogan 'big turbulence, wonderful situation'. But we must warn you that your political labyrinth has no way out, because this time there is not the mit of the election resalto you tried last time. You are and will remain - unfortunately for you, thankfully for the country - at point zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u225	Mr Nikolaos Panayiotopoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been heard, as it was next week that they will be heard these three days and let me try to contribute to the debate by describing the great picture, whether the Armed Forces were involved with many or few. The numbers are available to everyone, and I imagine you all know how they were mobilized and how they helped the citizens tested. It's not a big picture. We know the Armed Forces participated in helping the civilians. We know that they have done their job as they always do with a sense of duty and efficiency. We know she was on the stand by what was agreed in the plans. We know that they were mobilised when the relevant directive and mandate were given, because you always know the Armed Forces are being mobilised for such missions when the directive or mandate is given. They examined the mandate given to them even if it was not included in the well-known contingency plans in the Deucals and all of this. There is no order for the Armed Forces to commit decapitations, for example. Others decapitate. However, when they were asked, they did that. They collaborated with the relevant bodies, police, fire and other bodies, gave solutions and will do so again whenever necessary, because these are the Armed Forces. So they've just learned to do their job, they've learned to do it efficiently, and I think they really are due here and always a thank you for their contribution. But here, there is the big picture. So let me talk about the big picture more. The big picture is that the world is changing dramatically, becoming more complicated, becomes more difficult, more uncertain, more threatening and more dangerous. In recent years, especially in the last two, three years, potential threats have become manifested, present and acute crises, global crises, crises at the same time, crises at the same time, crises at the same time, crises at the same time, crises parallel, sweeping crises. The global health crisis of the pandemic is one. It has indeed brought not only the psychological state of large parts of the world, not only of the country, but also of its resilience to the global economy. In Greece alone, support measures exceeded EUR 40 billion and you know that. And of course the danger or risk of a pandemic mutation has not passed on to something worse. There is an energy crisis due to the conditions of geopolitical instability. There is the crisis of accuracy, a consequence of both the energy crisis - which has been a result - and of the pandemic that has largely affected the year that passed the global supply chain. Another example of the official nature of the crises. There is also, of course, the great geopolitical crisis, the growing instability and liquidity of growing geopolitical competition from the major powers, but also regional forces, with revised agendas such as neighbours, with outbreaks of tension and ignition at local and regional levels with international actors attempting to change the status quo in the wider region, to reverse power balances, with asymmetrical and hybrid threats that are no longer just threats, but are manifested as cyber attacks, at the national borders of countries such as our own. Of course, the climate crisis. A few years ago we were theorizing climate change. Now we are experiencing and are now being called upon to manage, of course, more and more extreme weather patterns. Not with an emergency, but with an increasingly regular character. Yes, it is not the first time that snow is falling in Attica, as I heard yesterday from a representative of a opposition party, but I am almost certain that for the first time it is falling so much snow, so fast a day at noon, with the need for this phenomenon to be managed. And with the need to manage this phenomenon by a state that has its pathogens and of course has shown mistakes in how to manage it. But the intensity and dramatic nature of these phenomena, I think, would test the most organized state. In this context, with this great picture, the states, governments and even supranational organisations must evolve - and they are evolving - into crisis management mechanisms. The keyword is durability. Keep this word, ladies and gentlemen, will dominate the international public debate for many years now: resilience. It is already a key issue of consultation within both the European Union and NATO. And fair enough is because resilience is being discussed in NATO since the Armed Forces are the most relevant factor of resistance. Resistance is defined as the ability to face and overcome difficulties and adverse situations. It's not just about people. Resistance is found as a concept of psychology, but resilience is now about transports, of course, also state mechanisms. Because the state must ensure the institutional framework, the institutions and the structures. Not only for the effective management of crises, but also for the incorporation in society of a culture of resilience throughout this spectrum. In the political system, of course, with the preparation of policies and proposals, in terms of mature dialogue, as has been said. Central government. The Ministry of Civil Protection a year ago was not even a ministry. However, the main coordination body must prove to be effective and effective. It is called upon to have clear competences and a clear decision-making framework. In the local government structures which must also take up any share of their responsibilities. In local government, the region. To economic operators, undertakings with basic infrastructures in the State, which must undertake to stimulate this resilience. Because if it is shaken, you know, social consequences can be incalculable in civil society and the citizens, who must increasingly have a culture of compliance with any directives of the organised state, whose structures they use. It is this culture that will allow the country to face and defeat what is coming. So the relationship and the solution proposed, through this discussion of Officerial Representation, in all that I have described, what is it? To leave the Mitsotakis regime. That's all. To come, I suppose the Civic Opposition will be cleared. But you know the Civic Opposition played the national savior's paper and even in the recent past. Greece paid for it dearly. And people remember. Because it is not only that the world does not believe and is not convinced, it does not hope that this motion of censure will be brought forward. It is because this line again shows that it is no longer aware of the new hard reality, the difficult picture I have described and is being used only to satisfy with the solution that I have described and only exhausted or satisfied with the solution described in the text: to leave the Mitsotakis regime, the dangerous and inefficient government that does not have the confidence of the people, despite the fact that I know the people's confidence is confirmed or not confirmed in the electoral process. This will happen when the time comes. He remembers the world, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, that when you were managing crises and we had many victims, we had no apologies. But that's not all we had. We didn't even have a misconception. You were looking for mistakes and you couldn't find, you said, your minister. Not even a misconception of mistake. And you also made your communication management when you were trying to unravel situations. Is it, will you tell me the apology of Prime Minister panacea? Of course it isn't. And that is neither an excuse nor an escape, and first of all, the Prime Minister knows that. But it's something. And his intervention, so that the company can compensate its citizens - an unprecedented intervention - is what we in another science call 'practical apologies'. I'm sorry it worked. And certainly not depriving them of responsibility. Because what it takes is more responsibility, speed and work. I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President, to cover the area of National Defence. We have taken on a great deal of responsibility for two years, and we have done a great deal of work, I would like to believe. We moved, as you know, on two axes. First, the upgrading of the total deterrent power of the Armed Forces in means, through the maintenance and upgrading of existing or existing personnel and with the increase in the recruitment of professional soldiers, with the increases in the admissions to productive schools of all three sectors, with career-related interventions that we are working on and will shortly bring to the vote in the House, even with this latest intervention by the Prime Minister to exempt from any tax on risk premiums which will appear to be a tangible economic benefit to many strains of the Armed Forces. With the tax refund they will receive soon. It shows practically the government's care for the staff. That was the first axis. The other was building and strengthening alliances and strategic relations at a bilateral and multilateral level through defence cooperation through an instrument. Because foreign policy is not produced at the Ministry of National Defence. The Prime Minister and, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs are the most important factors in the exercise of foreign policy. But we do. And we contribute catalysts because all these alliances we have built are upgraded to a new dimension through conditions of defence cooperation with Armed Forces of other countries, through the intensive approach with Armed Forces of other countries, or through synergies in the defence industry. But always on the basis of the central plan we have drawn up, we have submitted to the Prime Minister. He approved it, gave the order, and we apply it. At the same time, we have contributed to the great trials of the country, earlier in the face of immigration, but always to the preservation and surveillance of borders. In dealing with the pandemic, we brought to military hospitals and personnel. We assist catalytically and perhaps decisively in the overall vaccination effort with strains. In thousands of flight hours and thousands of favored fellow citizens who had to be transported with helicopters, airplanes from the Air Force and the Drought Army. Helping those who have been tested in natural disasters. They're familiar. So let me not feel in this debate, in the opinion of what our colleagues in the Staff Regulations have to do with us, neither ineffective nor dangerous on the basis of this work, which goes on. Why was it not ineffective management, ladies and gentlemen, that within a year and a half from the start of the first talks, the preliminary, not only did we agree but we have reached agreement and arrived at a tradition, acceptance and inclusion in the structures of the Air Force of the first six aircraft Raphalls, while by the end of the year we are waiting for the other six. It was not ineffective to administer these.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u227	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u228	I'll be done. It is not ineffective to manage the strategic relationship with the United States of America and the defensive cooperation that American players have made is better than they have ever been. It is not ineffective to manage that we have opened a strategic cooperation path with Israel. Two years ago, we couldn't imagine that. Today we are negotiating the acquisition or co-production in terms of transferring know-how from the most advanced defence systems. And it is a vote of confidence in Greece, which is being heard and honored as a pillar of stability in the region, the forthcoming visit by the Israeli Defence Minister to Kalamata in a few days' time, to inaugurate the first buildings of the International Air Center, which will further confirm the tightening of the strategic relationship and the relations between the two military flights. A vote of confidence in Greece is the strategic relationship between Greece and France and the French's clear position that they will be with us whenever necessary in the Eastern Mediterranean. A vote of confidence in Greece is the investment in the Skaramaga shipyards and the mobility of the corresponding investment in the Elefsina shipyards - I hope it will be implemented - where for so many years there has been inactivity. A vote of confidence in Greece and the prospect of the Greek economy is the decision of the most powerful, perhaps, factor in the international financial system, the CEO - Greek origin, in fact - of JP MORGAN to invest in Greece. A vote of confidence is also other investments that were either launched (‘PFIZER’, ‘MICROSOFT’) or are launched (Greek possibly aggregation of the defence industry). That is why - and I close, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - the Prime Minister and the Government are working on this climate. There will be pathogens, there will be problems in creating institutions and structures to develop resilience. But the government is working and we will achieve the great demand that is new national resilience in difficult conditions, in a new, hard reality. And, of course, at the end the valuation will come from the vote of confidence of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u229	Minister, warm request, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u230	All the rest is the meaningless parliamentary tactics of a political leader who is under pressure and wants to show that he is doing something and a party - let me say by closing down - that, unfortunately, he has not learned anything from her past, he has forgotten nothing, but, above all, he has not understood anything from the new hard reality that we are supposed to manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u231	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Theodore Dritsas is called in Stepma by SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, by 16.00 no ministers will be involved. The Ministers' speech has been completed. If something does not come up, we will only continue with the list of speakers, that is to say, only Members. Before you start - and I apologise - I would like to say this: I am making a suggestion to this House. As the speaking time is given - at 16.00 p.m. it has been set - I would suggest that, in order to be able to speak more Members, we should reduce the time. If you agree. If you don't agree... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Okay, one thought I made, I put it, you reject it, and we continue as it is. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be brief, although I would like to see some of the tolerance you have shown to the Minister as Commissioner of Defence. I will start with two comments, two points which I consider to be useful and important. A few hours ago it took place in Piraeus, such as every year, the annual memorial to the Panagiotis Vlahakos and the other two flying officers who fell into Imia. I will not go in at all, nor have I any interest in assessing this sad adventure. We must, however, - and I think I also express the whole House, SYRIZA - an honor to the memory of the fallen officers who are nowadays the sad anniversary of their loss. My second point is that last night, Mr Georgiadis asked us to apologise. We'll give him a full answer. But, in my past capacity, the President of the pre-review committee and because, apart from knowledge of the case-file, I am very well aware of the excellent quality that, as a majority of the pre-review committee, the members of the SYRIZA acted in a delicate manner and with great respect for the presumption of innocence, I say to him that he has no right to ask for what he is asking for, an apology. We can - we don't have the time now - say a lot of details. But the construction never came from SYRIZA. From elsewhere he came and has also participated in it at the expense of both justice and judicial officers and many others. I shall proceed, Mr President. Mr. National Defence Minister, fine, there is no justification for the motion of censure. However, should you not say a few words, that SYRIZA left a programme for upgrading the F-16 and for supplying the wells and for many others and for freezing it for one, a year and a half until you found your own balances, while you agreed on the substance, and that is where you arrived? Shouldn't you give some explanation now - if this is true - for the Armed Forces? And we, with our communication, have congratulated both the fanatics and the euphorians and the officers and officers who have been recruited to help and they have done so with great conscientiousness and sacrifice and effort. But that was whatever it was. A few hopeful, few phantoms, who have been in availability. And they were held there for five days when things were normalized. Where was the Civil Protection, the ITD, the Region and the other powers? Why did these people have to stay for five days, scumbags? Also, whether it is true or not - I am not going to mention on purpose - that a large, central war airport, like a heliport, has been excluded - has it not been for civil protection - for many, many hours? Has the Civil Aviation Hospital been excluded too for many hours? And finally, something that is too little to laugh and cry: It is true that through the Ministry the warning to these people, to the ghosts, to the hopes, etc. to give up their work on Tuesday morning and go to exit "10", where were the television workshops? Is that true? I don't know. Look into it. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you in the New Democracy, but also in KINAL, have unfortunately told us, thank you very much for making this motion of distrust, because it is a gave, it proves what you are and so on. But please! In this House, each party represents part of the Greek and Greek voters. If you measure the number of voters voted on by the opposition parties and all together agree and vote for the motion of censure, we are talking about a number of Greek citizens far greater than the voters of the New Democracy. The political system, the electoral law, gives you the right to rule. No one disputes that. But do you realize that you are the government of all Greeks? And not only because the elections took place in 2019, but because now and now, too, we are questioning too much, but you are deposing them, the vast majority - including the voters of the New Democracy - is reluctant. Apart from the experience we have every day and it is undeniable and indisputable. Under these circumstances it would be a lack of responsibility tragic for Civic Opposition not to table a motion of censure, which you could turn into a motion of confidence. You didn't, because that's where you should really expose your work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is where you hit SYRIZA in your two-thirds of your speech, you say what you want for SYRIZA, and you defend the work of the government. Even the ministers do this, even the ministers! Doesn't that indicate that you're in defense, that you're in despair? And you have dug up, ladies and gentlemen, and Matty. Don't you know that Greek culture from classical antiquity includes a very, very, very teaching story for those who reminded of familiar evils? Yeah, Matty's old enough for all of us and too much for us. And in this respect, should all of us once be able to answer the existential question 'we could save even one and we did not manage to do so in Matti'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Dritsa, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u234	I'll finish. But can this be compared to the management of the pandemic? And with all the excuses it is very - absolutely - compatible with today's reality that you refuse to accept the old question because it is really worth it that this government should continue to govern. What does it have to offer to the crucial issues of accuracy, pandemic, unemployment? You say 4%, but we in incredible have reduced 10 units and you in these four units include those who have been made redundant because of the pandemic and were re-entered.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Dritsa, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u236	I'm done. From this point of view, no, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and Members of the New Democracy, your policy is politics, the same one that led the country to bankruptcy in the past decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u237	All right, all right, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u238	And then we had development and then we had equipment and then we had a lot of things and things, but when growth is not fair, sustainable development, with the participation of society, is 'feather'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u239	All right, please, Mr. Dritsa!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u240	I'm done with this. And that is why SYRIZA is responsible for raising the issue of the elections, because the Greek people must not decide who will govern him, what policy will be chosen for the serious, important issues of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u241	We invite Mr. Manolakos from New Democracy to Step. Here, Mr Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today it is twenty-six years since the Immigration crisis. As my coordinator, the previous speaker, said, we honoured them as we should in Piraeus. And I would like to remind the words of Kavafis who I think fit perfectly: and when the Greeks come to boast, "they bring our nation out!" They will say for you, Panagiotis Vlahakos, Christoule Karathanassis and Hector Jalopse!” Mr President, for the third day today we are discussing the motion of censure against a dangerous and inefficient government, as SYRIZA says. Really, how dangerous is this government ineffective? Our country after the disastrous juncture of the "first time left" has a government with a strong majority that enjoys the confidence of the Parliament, exerts a serious, responsible policy, which has placed Greece in the position that it deserves. It has strengthened its ties with traditional but also new allies, it has greatly improved its image on international markets and finally, it has restored the prestige that has been severely affected by the inconsistency and irresponsibility of the previous government throughout the world. And all of this in the midst of a pandemic, excitement of Turkish provocativeness and natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not one of those who will say that everything went well in the pandemic front. And failures were made and mistakes were made, but the important thing is - and this must be kept - that the final sign was positive and dignified and does not justify SYRIZA's popular screams, whose pretentious strains close the eye to the inconveniences, betting on the fears of ordinary people to unwritten voters. As far as the economy is concerned, every sound mind is aware that our government is giving us a titular struggle to help survive business and support households, with priority for small and medium-sized enterprises, medium-sized groups and vulnerable groups. As much as it is, it really is a forehead of everyday agony, where the government is trying to alleviate the consequences of the energy crisis by a large number of measures, always aiming to support small and vulnerable people. But, ladies and gentlemen, because some in here have fought with the truth, I have to say that the motion of censure against the government has been tabled on the occasion of dealing with the recent bad weather, but with the aim of getting SYRIZA out of the inner roaming and causing political confusion in the Change Movement that is approaching him dangerously, at least in public. So let us go on the basis of the motion of censure. The fact is that the image of the Attica Road but also of the other major roads with the snow of one day can only cause anger, because the state machine has not succeeded in preventing our fellow citizens from suffering. The frustration of private operators and the non-response of local government explains, but does not relieve the government of its responsibilities. Already Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis - I would say - has apologized for the ineffective functioning and is certain, because we are learning from our mistakes, that the Civil Protection which is still at the early stage of the organisation will improve and become that organization that is really on the side of the tested citizen. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to express a great deal of thanks and warm congratulations to our Army, to the Firefighting and to the Police for their readiness and effectiveness and for the solutions they have given and relieved hundreds of our fellow citizens. I would like to refer to the words of the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, who spoke of the worst government since the Migration. And I really wonder what he was talking about. I remember a government that, while it had promised that it would tear up memorials with a law and an article and burden the bullies and dance the markets and instead shut down the banks and was about to cut off drachmas. He took the 'no' of the Greek people in the 1915 referendum, which she itself challenged and did it 'yes'. He mourned twenty-four dead in Mandra and a hundred two in Eye, but he didn't make mistakes. He delivered Macedonian ethnicity and language to Skopje, closing the skopje issue. He tried to control the joints of power. He tried to set up a competition for the TV licenses. He tried to organize constructions to neutralize her political opponents among them and two former Prime Ministers. He stated that the sea had no borders and allowed immigrants to cross by waves and to be melted in the squares. He allowed terrorists and murderers to slit rides to Monastiraki. And he didn't buy a single bullet for the Armed Forces. I don't think there's anyone who didn't understand the worst post-Macedonia government in the world, it's the SYRIZA government who made the motion of censure against the New Democracy Government. A sentence, Mr President: 'Seniorly Argyrians'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Harris Kastanides from the Change Movement. Mrs. Skondra, Mr. Kalamatianos and the twelfth cycle will be followed by Mrs. Papakostas - Palioura. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, in parliamentary debates the most barren debates are during which government and opposition blame each other for the errors in administering identical situations, i.e. competing with the Anti-Policy and Anti-Policy Co-population for who has committed the most tragic mistakes at the difficult times of the country. Our debt isn't that. Our debt is to indicate how we will reduce problems in the management of natural disasters, in crisis management, in how we become better. That's what I'm going to do. Preliminaryly, let me make the point that, as the parliamentary debate so far has evolved, a question arises in the Chamber. Why is it that a motion of censure against a government that did almost everything well produces work according to the claims made by its officials and by the Members who support it? I am not going to invoke the motion of censure in the explanatory statement to the Staff Regulations. The motion of censure and her explanation is essentially the result of yesterday's position yesterday, Mr Stylianides, and I am very sympathetic to Mr Stylianides. Speaking yesterday, the Minister for Civil Protection, with absolute openness, said in a reversal of his speech: "I took over the responsibility assigned to me by the Prime Minister not knowing the Greek state mechanism." That was his exact wording. I am not standing by whether the Prime Minister knew that he was commissioning someone who does not know the Greek state mechanism. I'm standing on what the Minister has promised. When everyone assures that the government's engine is ready to face the snow, what exactly did Mr Stylianides see in the Greek state mechanism? What malformation, what malformation, what inaction, what problem, and he said, "I did not know about the Greek state mechanism". The wording of Mr Stylianides provides sufficient justification for the motion of censure. The latter snow revealed for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, the total collapse of the state. Nothing worked either at the level of the central state or at the levels of government. This is the first time we've had a total collapse of state mechanisms. Bad division and confusion of competences, lack of planning and incredible government inability for elementary coordination are some of the causes of the outrageous situation in Lefkanopedio. It is easy and reasonable under these circumstances to make a request to remove the government, which is what happens next. The next or the next ones to come what exactly will they do to ensure that such negative situations and tragedies do not happen again in the future? It is a more complex matter to solve the problem, namely the reorganisation of the state and the efficiency of the administration. So what do we need to do? That should be the issue today and the last days of the debate. What should we do, what state do we need to talk about? The administrative system and the treatment of its pathogens has always been the subject of great interest in public life. Since the exhibition of Varvaressos on the Greek economic problem until today, many interesting views have been expressed, many times radical proposals for the change of administration. The results have been poor and limitive over time. Despite individual successes, the overall picture is extremely problematic today. If we want to create serious conditions for Greece to leave the crisis, we urgently need to return to our entire political system's agenda the administrative problem, with a view to creating an integrated national strategy for radical change in administration. However, an integrated national strategy presupposes, firstly, the existence of a determined political leadership to bring about the necessary changes without considering political costs, i.e. without once again disciplining the traditional management of customer relations. Secondly, an integrated national strategy presupposes the adoption of the rule of continuous, ongoing administrative reform, against the prevailing practice of non-continuous and fragmentary interventions. This means, ladies and gentlemen, national understanding and planning over time to avoid overthrows from government to government even by Minister of State of the same government. And thirdly, it presupposes the imposition at every stage of the ongoing administrative reform of a critical mass of change, because when the weight of the changes is small it is assimilated by the burden of bureaucratic inertia. What can be the main objectives? I am not talking about the full listing of a coherent national plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude soon, Mr President. Firstly, central government is transformed into a small headquarters responsible only for managing national affairs (defense, justice, public order) and for designing all other state policies, planning only. Secondly, these executive powers are assigned to a small number of directorates, which will henceforth be the state headquarters. All the executive powers of the administration are transferred to both levels of self-government and decentralised structures. Otherwise we will not solve the problem of the confusion of competences. Thirdly, in order to effectively exercise the powers we must see the problem of the self-sufficiency of the resources and the money available to local government. This means a total change in policy on central self-resources. Fourthly, a Cohesion Fund is being set up for the impossible municipalities in the islands and mountainous regions in particular, so that they can meet much more increased obligations through the Cohesion Fund. Furthermore, electronic procurement throughout the public sector is being extended and digital signatures are being introduced everywhere. In order to facilitate e-commerce, the citizen creates a special electronic box, where each citizen's personal documents are stored, and whenever the administration wants to request information, it is addressed to this box and employs them from there, not to trouble the citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Castanides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u246	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, a single information system is being created, i.e. the existing information systems of the municipalities and regions are being integrated into a single information system, with the aim of providing uniform and integrated services for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I had to say a lot more, but I had to arrest time and not arrest me. I would like to tell you that if we all have to take political responsibility together, that is to get away from the field of barren controversy and move on to the field of ruthless thoughts and proposals on how the country will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u247	Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity. This has come to my mind by listening to Mr Tsipras presenting a motion of distrust, a spasmodic move showing panic from his growing inner-party question and the apparent risk of a third party being found. It did not even weigh on our Government's opportunity, for three days, to list its proper policy and its achievements and, at the same time, to recall how politically incompetent, hypocritical and populists were the SYRIZA's before they became a government, during which it has now ruled as Opposition. My colleagues have already spoken about the government's policies to turn Greece from the mess, which you inherited us after four and a half years of disastrous government in a state of economic, political and geostrategic power. The Government of New Democracy is a government that has a dynamic effect on the growth and reduction of unemployment, a government which is not owned by tax collectors such as you, the left, which you have imposed twenty-nine taxes. On the other hand, it increases the incomes of households and businesses, with substantial reductions in taxes and social security contributions, which you have never voted in favour. Our government is a government which gives citizens a dividend from growth rather than a wage of EUR 751, but which makes the generation of 330 - I say this because I now hear something about EUR 800 - not talking about social policy and cut off the ESA. We have a rule of law, serious and reliable, transformed digitally and drastically limiting the bureaucracy and endless suffering of citizens, a state whose government does not dream of open borders where the Aegean belongs to its fish. This isn't Woodstock 1969. Here we are a serious country with liberal, democratic, patriotic government, following targeted policies to prevent migratory flows and safeguard national borders, a state which concludes strategic alliances, strengthening its deterrent capacity and the role of geopolitical and geostrategic, agreements that - not least - you voted against, such as the AEZ agreements with Italy and Egypt. We have a government that is responsible for and wisely facing one crisis after another: Evros, Turkish, pandemic, energy, natural disasters. I'm going to stand in my county, Karditsa. Hypocrisy and lying, gentlemen, have short feet. And I ask you directly: Do you, who have the disguised nerve of swinging our fingers, have what measures of support for my fellow citizens have you voted for when the whole Carditsa prefecture was destroyed by the 'January'? Where were you when the natural disasters hit civilians and businesses? Did you even support an economic measure to relieve the affected? Not even one! How hypocrisy now! You did not support a single euro for our farmers to cover their losses. Neither a euro to compensate companies, natural persons, the infrastructure destroyed to enable them to be built and constructed. Over 600 million were given by this government to Carditsa Prefecture. But, more generally, you've erased Karditsa from the map of your policies. All your years, for example, you are fiercely fighting the works of Acheloos, who will keep our region and the whole of Thessaly alive. Theatre, supposedly supporters and supporters of the people, but in fact nothing! A political summing of empty content and fresh water rebels! Sensitivity la cart. I hear you all these days sympathize, supposedly, with our fellow citizens who have really been afflicted with the latest snowfall. And, yes, there were omissions and failures. And here I would like to congratulate the Army, the Police, the EKAV, the Civil Protection, all those who have helped, so that they can help our fellow citizens. But last year, with the "Medea", which was closed for hours by the national road, you accused us of doing so to protect the concessionaire from the potential fine. One more thing. I have never seen you sympathize with our fellow citizens who have for years seen their cars, their shops, their properties being destroyed by your petty "blacks". In any case, the citizens have always expressed the complaint 'one will not be able to ask for an apology'. And they continued 'no one will pay for the damage and for the suffering'. In this case, both were done. Honestly, the Prime Minister has asked for us all on behalf of all of us and as a recognition of the suffering, again on his initiative, to compensate the people who have been afflicted. And in order not to be forgotten, we voted in 2020 for the law, where concessionaires will not be left unreasonable. One of the leaders' characteristics, ladies and gentlemen, is not to hide in the difficult circumstances, to look at problems in the face and to correct them. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis does. He's not hiding behind his finger. It doesn't set up a communication show on the decays and hundreds of them. That is why he enjoys the confidence and appreciation of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in particular of KINAL, does SYRIZA's triumph begin to affect you? They put forward a motion of censure and call for elections, which, of course, do not want, but a debate to be held. You support the motion of censure, but you do not want elections. Finally, I will never understand the left-wing logic. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' motion of censure is being made for party conflict. He is addressing his inner-party opposition in an effort to enlighten the panic that prevails and which creates the return to your real political power of 4%, which was almost all the years of your political existence. He is the panic of the Kumundurus executives, for they see that they will never again control their loved ones of power. You found yourself in power by taking advantage of the difficult juncture and sold hope that was coming over the feathered horses of your populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u249	Mrs. Skondra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u250	However, make the decision that this will not happen again, because the Greek people do not forget what has happened and there is a long way to go about your political, economic and institutional diversions: from the risk of being outside the European Union, the capital controls, the misery of the referendum, until the attempt to control the press and to set up cases against your political opponents. And there's no end to it. Your course confirms, ladies, that very quickly SYRIZA will have the legislative conclusion of the dissolution in its sixteen components. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u251	The next speaker is Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after two days of speaking in the procedure of the own-initiative motion, I believe you will understand why we have asked for and tabled this motion of censure. We tabled it because we had a democratic duty. We have tabled it because the Greek society is suffocating and can no longer stand it. It cries in every way that this government is no longer there. It no longer goes with its huge failure in the management of pandemic and accuracy. It no longer goes with incompetence and inaction in managing yet another bad weather that had been announced. Once again, you are trying to get rid of your responsibilities and you are doing this when the Minister of State himself, the closest minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Scortsos, along with Mr Triantopoulos, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, confessed that they were attending the preparations for dealing with bad weather. What does that mean? It means that Maximos itself had supervision, coordination, and therefore also responsibility for this operational fiasco, this operational debacle. He has responsibility for the thousands of our fellow citizens who have been caught in snow. It is responsible for the thousands of our fellow citizens at risk on the Attica Road, the Mediterranean Sea, Katechaki, Marathon, Lavrio. He has responsibility for the seven hundred people locked in the trains. He is responsible for the fact that patients at the Salvation Hospital were left without food. He has the responsibility for the many hospitals that were locked out because of the snow. He is responsible for the thousands of people in the Lekanocente who have been powerless for days. In fact, the Minister of Citizen Protection said that four thousand policemen on Monday night were on the streets. Have you seen them, ladies and gentlemen? Where was he? Do they have the equipment? Do they have the vehicles, the chains? And nine-vehicles. But the police cars in Attica aren't that much. He obviously meant the two-cycles. But is that really your business plan, your perfect design? Going out the two circles in the streets with the snow? First things first. And what was your plan? There's no such thing as any. And you are causing what you say about Greek society. And you challenge it with the pretentious apology of the Prime Minister. I'm sorry about the "January", I'm sorry about "Medea" last year. I'm sorry about the fires this summer. I'm sorry now about the bad weather 'Elpida'. How many apologies can the Greek people last from your Government and the Prime Minister? And he tried to transfer his own responsibilities and his ministers to others. The ultimate state is a fiasco, it's nonexistent, it's inefficient and dangerous. This has felt so well thousands of our fellow citizens in the summer at the catastrophic fires. Almost a million acres were burnt, property, crops, homes. And what was your plan then? "Evacuate the villages and let everything burn." So much you care that you even care about the compensation you have given them. Mr. Brutsis, you referred to compensation. I invite you to go to the villages of Olympia and the Tower together to ask the residents if they have received compensation and if they can survive without any income, not only for this year, but also for the coming years. The olives, to be produced again, take seven years. How will these people live? And you're telling us they're getting damages. Let's go ask them. You dare and you're tombling. I have been taken by dozens of my neighbors from Elias and they say: 'Tell them: what do they say?' In 2007, you ruled again and we had dozens of victims of the fires in Elias. Have you forgotten? You forgot about it as you forgot our county then. And you're forgetting him now. Dozens of victims. And then it wasn't a firestorm that burned everything, within an hour of the mountain reached the sea. The fires were burning for ten days. And you dare to bomb? Aren't you ashamed? And we have dozens dead now in the two and a half years of your government in Halkidiki, Attica, Evia from floods and fires. Dozens dead! Do you forget? And every day we grieve a hundred. We've surpassed the twenty-three thousand dead. First in the European Union for ‘21 in dead per million. And what does Mr. Vorides say? He said, "The issues of the pandemic have been discussed for two years. What is the added value of discussing it again? I do not understand.’ That's what Mr. Vorides said. He doesn't understand. Do you not realize that it is a major problem for the members of the Ministerial Council not to see the tragedy we are experiencing? He's wondering. And instead of making self-criticism, you come and you say that everything is going well and you do not strengthen the public health system. I can hear you, ladies and gentlemen, saying that the ESS has been strengthened. How was it strengthened? Three thousand fewer people are now serving in the public system than in 2019. Where was it reinforced? Where are the doctors? Where are the nurses? You don't reduce students to classrooms. 50%+1 cases to close a section. You're not prescribing the tests. What are you doing? Every day of your stay in power leads to a dystopic future. And actually, let's go and talk to professionals, households. They suffocate, they can't stand, they can't pay the electricity bills. We told you he was coming. We were told that you were 'destructing'. You told us it was a transitory phenomenon, that it would end in March. You told us this was an international crisis. And now who's right? Mr. Tsipras and the SYRIZA who told you and made suggestions, or did Mr. Mitsotakis and New Democracy make proposals? Check out the results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are looking to find the reasons we have tabled the motion of censure. You're looking to interpret it. You cannot understand that the social majority has resented you, that it deplores you and can take no more. And you cannot understand why you have lost all contact with the citizens. All you care about is the customer service and the arrangements of great economic interests. The real and deep cause of your failure is not only inability and insufficiency. It's your neo-right and neo-liberal perception. It is the one who opposes and undermines everything public: public health, public education, public services, social welfare, labour rights. It is this ideology that the state wants to be a spoil in your party and the great economic interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Kalematian, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. And you think with the cover of mediation and polling you can be saved. As I speak for polls, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, you should be very concerned about the fact that the New Democracy, Ministers, MPs, Midarchs, are celebrating and rejoicing with your alleged popular rise. But this shows that it suits them. And if it suits them, she's going to say something's not going well in your course. And it turns out once again that their only problem is Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA. They're their opponents, they're causing them trouble. If you dare, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we invite you to vote in favour of the motion of censure, to see what the Greek people really think. So, if you are not really afraid, you will be voting in favour of this proposal, so that we can get the social majority's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u255	The next speaker is Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Papura from New Democracy. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, three days ago the Chief of Staff Representation, Mr. Tsipras, urgently called for the floor in order to table a motion of censure in the present government. He called for the reason exceptionally to ask, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, for us to leave and come to the rule of the country, obviously you. Let us go and you come, when you have been defeated by the first moment of your government, both in the difficult and easy and stripped in front of the harsh truth. Let us go and you come, when your story about your supposed moral advantage that you thought made you separate and shadowed as superpowers the "bad strangers" and the invisible enemies, turned out to be nothing more than a mythology. You who believe that your constructed superiority would be enough to overcome the crisis and by magic Greece would become a second Eden, which, with your choices and your decisions, depleted every illusion of the hopeful young when the time came for the great decisions and you were called upon to exercise politics, was shattered, as with only a weapon in your patron, your quibbled moral advantage, you proved incompetent for the governance of the country, as your complete ignorance and the deficit of the political "know how", resulting in your abnormal landing in reality, as well as the Greeks who believed the great, the Greeks who believed that Mr.Tsipras' declared optimism for the results of the Eurogroup of May 22 - escaped - would make him wear and ties. Let us leave, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you come, from the 'go back, Mrs. Merkel' of Mr. Tsipras, the 'go back, ladies and gentlemen of the conservative nomenclara of Europe', and you have come to the point that Mrs. Angela Merkel is a politician who is aware of responsibility, and even though the centre-right party is open-minded, as was seen by the refugee community. From the "I am a Prime Minister of all time and I was not in this position because I loved the chair of power" and from the "Colotumbas and retreats of humiliation there are others to do" we arrived at the defiance of the popular will after the 2015 referendum. Because, after all, compromises, even pains or retreat, are always a possibility. Let us go and you come, who, from the "we're going to squash the bullies and the markets will dance" and from the "with a law and an article we're going to abolish the memorials", you've come to vote for the fourth and all the austerity measures that impoverished society, dismantled the middle class and gave birth to a greater recession in the Greek economy. Let us go and you come, who, from "EVH is an irrational tax, is not corrected, abolished" and from "Don't dare Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos to think about going to first home auctions", we have come to invite the Greek citizens to pay the doses of ENVIA and have been scheduled until July 2017 for a thousand and sixty eight auctions. Let us go and you come from the "we will defend the public character of the regional airports", you have reached the transfer in 2017 to the "FRAPORT" of fourteen regional airports. The 'no reduction in pensions will not be decided', we have reached the unreasonable reductions in main and ancillary pensions, as well as in reductions in allowances and tax exemptions. From 'we will not legislate one euro more', you have introduced nothing more than thirty taxes. From the "we are going to step on the complexion and the sinful past of bipartite political life" we arrived at the lead of reverentially and with particular masturbation in practices that had been renounced in all tons as dirty. You have reached the point where you are riding every institution of the rule of law, riding justice itself, in order to set up the "NOVARTIS" and hang in the scarf ten political opponents, including former prime ministers. You reached the point from "they will enter real rules and order in the broadcasting field", trying to control and manipulate this, as did the pre-response for the Pope, while choosing to apply customer relations in the public and business world, creating the modern version of our "our own children". As far as the tragedies in Mandra and Matti are concerned, instead of taking your responsibilities, admit your inadequacies and apologise to the citizens, you preferred to set up a parallel communication show and lie once again to the Greek people, thus insulting the victims themselves. You have appeared unrepentant on issues such as the signing of the accustomed Ambassadors' Agreement for which you are proud and with which you committed the country for the future, while avoiding going even a moment into an autocritical substance and simply saying that you have allegedly ruled at the most difficult moment in Greece. Yes, sir. But if you have ruled at the most difficult time in Greece, then what has the New Democracy Government been doing for two and a half years? What is the truth about the New Democracy Government, when apart from the first eight months of normal country rule, all the rest of the months until now is faced with successive severe threats, challenges, but also crises, such as migratory, Turkish threats, pandemic and extreme weather phenomena, such as earthquakes, floods, fires and snowfall? What does the New Democracy Government really do for two and a half years, when despite the above and despite all mistakes and failures, it has not departed from its election programme and has not stopped working hard, promoting reforms and structural changes for the benefit of the economy, the business and investment environment, health, education, the rule of law, safeguarding institutions, the reorganisation of the public sector and the mutilation of digital transformation, security, crisis management, society itself? What is the truth of the New Democracy Government and the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, when in just two and a half years' time he managed to restore the country's credibility to the international area, to upgrade our foreign policy by making great diplomatic successes, to build strategic alliances with countries with a powerful geopolitical imprint and to shield the country and its defence with unprecedented state-of-the-art equipment and media, by changing the geopolitical connections and the country's defensive morality? You, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, with the motion of distrust put forward by your President, are asking for us to leave and for you to come because you are quite rightly claiming that you are supposedly better than us for the governance of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u257	Complete, Ms. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u258	Do you really believe that, or is it just confirmed once again by Julius Caesar's saying that'some people believe what they only want to believe'? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u259	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Bukouros asked for a very brief speech. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u260	Moving towards the end of the process and pending the start of the positions of political leaders, our prolongation, the New Democracy, is the only one that has not exhausted the three-minutes agreed by the Conference of Presidents. I would just like to sum up for two minutes, saying that it has now been demonstrated by the whole process that the motion of censure towards the government on the part of the Civilian Opposition Officer has proved empty. What exactly do I want to say? In fact, some serious events have occurred, particularly on the Attica road, where our fellow citizens have been afflicted. But this is not the first time that something similar has happened. This is not the first time that something like this has been happening and it is not the first time that it is happening in our own country. Everywhere in the Western world we see images of such events, especially in the winter months. I understand, therefore, that the choice of the SYRIZA's leadership to table a motion of distrust against the government is the result of an internal party on one hand, but also of a political pressure. I don't want to go far and I don't want to analyse. These have been analysed, on the one hand, by the popular rise of the third party, on the other hand, the processes ahead of Mr Tsipras's conference, without weakening the importance of events on the Attica road, for whose company I did not hear any criticism from the MPs, as if the management body had no responsibility. I realise that even a simple booth could happen these days, the SYRIZA party would table a motion of censure. He even comes to involve them with the health issue of the pandemic and with some other economic issues, further blurring the positions he holds up. The truth is, Mr President, that we have heard criticism in this debate for three days, we have listened to voices, we have heard unnoticed accusations, but we have not heard from the Quaestorial Opposition, which aspires to become a government, nor a productive proposal, nor a proposal that improves things. This alone proves that not only are they not ready to rule, but I am very afraid they will be able to keep the position they hold today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u261	Good. Mr Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, should I not respond?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Skourletis, can you answer now? So many things have been said. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u264	Strictly for two minutes, Mr President. First sentence: Increase the minimum wage to EUR 800. Second sentence: Reintroduction of collective agreements. Third sentence: Elimination of the law on undoubted redundancies. Fourth proposal: Heavy and unhealthy for doctors and first-line hospitals. Fifth proposal: Heavy and unhealthy for delinquents. Sixth proposal: The Recovery Fund, which was not consulted, should also be given to small and medium-sized enterprises and not to a few. Seventh proposal: An increase of EUR 2,000 from primary doctors to the ESS. Do I have to go on? There are dozens of proposals, but you can't hear them. All you're doing is stir up a drowning candy that sinks into the trembling gutter, because you're going to tell us the same thing, as you all say, with a truly terrible skillful communication line that reminds us of Trump, to exterminate characters, with lies you keep telling us about Eye and Mandra. But you did not tell us in the streams of Mandra who you left as government with the appointed prefectures building. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You didn't tell us why the Matty is an illegal city settlement in two-thirds, which happened because it captures your own state of corruption, interactivity and rupturedology. That's enough! We taught you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Bukkaro, are we going to take it like this? You take time, you know it. I would just mention it so that it can be heard in the Chamber. With this Ping-Pong you now get valuable time from the little remaining Members' time. They won't talk. Of the four - five who could speak by four, one or two will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u267	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u268	You are responsible - whether inside or outside of the introductory part - and not for the Bureau if they do not speak. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u269	On a point of order, Mr President, I would say - to make it easier for you - that this is the third or fourth time, if I remember correctly, that I am speaking. I've only spoken twice. Therefore, with the third quarter that is entitled and the majority, I shall respond. First of all, I am pleased that the Parliamentary spokesman was forced to say some of the scattered and uninformed proposals that we are constantly listening to, which were not heard by anyone throughout the three days. Mr. Skourlet, why are you leaving?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u270	Keep going, Mr. Buquoir. Leave Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u271	But he says something and he's leaving. Is that right? This is not in the context of parliamentary dialogue. The SYRIZA government is asking us today to announce a minimum wage of EUR 800. Which government? The one that for four and a half years promised 751 euros and never gave them up. So the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u272	Okay. Don't start now. They've heard so much these days. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u273	But do not interrupt me, Mr President. Mr. Skourlet...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u274	I repeat: consider the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u275	We are told of collective agreements by the one who has achieved a single contract in the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u276	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u277	The SYRIZA Government for four and a half years and following the disasters in the areas mentioned by Mr Skourletis, has not been able to proceed with any project at all. By making suggestions when you are in the opposition, which you do not apply when you come to the government, you do nothing but facilitate the work of the Greek people to make their choices. It is precisely because you have not done what you have told us before, because it is not the first time that you have announced it, which is why you have a huge lack of credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u278	Good. Mr. Gocas from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days in the debate on the motion of censure are obviously also the SYRIZA's micro-political games and the New Democracy's pursuits with the particular dualisation that they want to maintain. We do not give any vote of confidence to the government that has failed overall in its policies with the lack of plan, its inability and its inadequacy. Our position, without asking for elections, gave SYRIZA and the New Democracy an opportunity to react in the same way. SYRIZA did not ask for elections because of the pandemic, speaking of homicide. Now with twice as many of our fellow citizens daily lose their lives, it has changed its position. Isn't that a bourgeoisie? The New Democracy pretends to be unaware that the elections arise when there is a loss of the declared one. So with her logic whenever the opposition is voting against a budget, should it also ask for elections? The New Democracy and the SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, are concerned and disturbed by the autonomous course and force of the PASOK - a change movement, and that was also reflected in the ban on the meeting of our parliamentary group, which was working for others, not just the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the final, centralised state has been unable to manage the pandemic for two years, without strengthening the National Health System, without primary health care, without the practical support of workers, by aggregation in public transport and schools. On the front of the economy, the world of production and labour, small and medium-sized enterprises, the primary sector and the financially vulnerable households experience the consequences of pandemic, the lack of a development plan and have economic deadlocks. Precision is present without control, with inflation at 5.1% and electricity at heights. The cost of production affects productive activities, farmers and farmers in despair. Producers, like my region, Arta, remain without the aid of the loss of income they are entitled to, without compensation for the inconsistency. We are now proposing to the economy reductions in indirect taxes, VAT and excise duties, particularly in basic goods and regulation on minimum wages with a view to restoring collective labour agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the snowfall in Attica confirmed the serious weakness in managing natural disasters and this government. There is no design, prevention and coordination, even when extreme phenomena have been predicted, although the government has established a separate ministry, but without such support. The debate and comparison of the mismanagement of crises by the previous SYRIZA government in Mandra and Matti, with the well-known tragic results, and by the current government in the floods of Janus, in Medeia last year, in the fires, such as in northern Evia, and now in Attica, and the Lefkadium is not the main concern of citizens. He's interested in the result. At the same time, we need a new institutional framework, a new structure for effective civil protection, corresponding to European countries. We can see all this. And our President, Nikos Androullakis, was the one who recommended to the European Union the Civil Protection Mechanism for natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, the paralysis of the country's operation in the centre, in the capital city, is also sad and disappointing for the citizens. In the public transport sector, there was no final plan, contrary to what the Minister said yesterday. Buses and trains came out but also fixed tracks interrupted critical routes, despite workers' efforts on them and their own adventure, such as in tram wagons. Unless the Ministry's plan was only a stop to traffic. It is not enough half the apology and the announcement of communal evacuation with 2,000 euros for the people in Attica and 1,000 euros for the TRAINOSE trains excluded. And in what process and in what legal context did all this happen? Will they be forced, as the company insists, or not to give up the beneficiaries of other claims? How will the real beneficiaries be identified? We have been asked a question about the meetings that have taken place and who has been involved. What proposals have been made by all of them and by the Attica Routes? What exactly was that decided? Why wasn't the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure called? Is that finally the answer to what happened in urban transport and on trains? What exactly happened to stopping heavy vehicles? Is the contract covered by the contract for the operation and maintenance of the project, equipment, machinery, personnel? Was there a project involving the management of bad weather as a whole by the state, the region, the municipalities and the services and companies? How far has it been applied? Is the conclusions assessed next time? Did this happen for last year's bad weather, "Medea"? Why did the main streets of Athens, such as Katechaki and the Mediterranean, close? Aren't there excluded allowances? And who's right on the responsibilities ball? Mr. Stylianides, the car park or the company? So far there are no answers or they are vague. In any case, the government's responsibility for this chaotic situation as a whole is given and clearly awaits the conclusion of the committee of inquiry on the closure of traffic. But we need to see the corresponding institutional framework for the concessions of large transport projects. The current concession contract of the Attica Road finally expires in 2024. It's another conversation, of course, how we ended up there. A new tender was opened by the GOI, in which the ‘ATTICS’ was transferred by SYRIZA. Are any of the things that's been happening these days related to this development? For the infrastructure and transport sector only two words, because I have to close down. We have the often repeated announcements of project programs. We have announcements, construction sites, we don't see. The extensive use of PPP, promoted by the Ministry, burdens users such as farmers with irrigation works. Yeah, we'll have a PPP, though, conditional. And they won't be about public goods, like the water of EYDAP. Finally, there is only one problem renting buses in urban transport. To buy more and more new ones, we're still waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is self-evident that we should vote in favour of the motion of censure against the government for its inadequacy and the problems they have accumulated. We are fighting for another policy, for a change in political correlations. We are expressing a credible alternative political proposal for sustainable development, with social justice, for sustainable development with a regional and productive dimension, with work and dignity for all. The democratic party, the PASOK - Change Movement, with President Nikos Androulakis expresses once again the expectations of Greek society for a better future for all and especially for our young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u280	Mrs Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Skourletis, you said in your previous brief speech, if I have listened well, that our government is engaged in a Trump communication policy, if I have kept it well. You obviously forget that your Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, was standing very smiling next to Mr. Trump and told him he was evil, but for a good purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the motion of distrust in which he was unconsciously slashed by the latest developments and the demographic collapse of SYRIZA is actually a tactical move of Alexis Tsipras towards his new election opponent, Mr Androullakis. It is a move, however, which is also the definition of political boomerang, that is what the people say: 'You have gone for wool and you have come into a lame state'. Why? Because SYRIZA's problem is a direct strategy. And, as you know, tactical movements may change the agenda temporarily, but strategic problems are not solved. I'll say it differently. Mr. Tsipras may have escaped this weekend from the umbrella headache, the bridge of the relocation of his officers to KINAL, but the next morning, he will again have Mr. Tsakalotos, and Mr. Friends, and Mr. Skourletis. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why the only party that is in direct disparity with the outcome of the 2019 elections is your party? Are you concerned about why, for the first time in time, an officer's opposition party has more damage than that of the government, which undeniably manages the most acute, unprecedented and modern, concurrent crises of the last decades? The cause lies in what the former Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, by cynicism has declared, in unsuspecting time, that normality is never a chance for the Left. This is also the core of SYRIZA's strategic problem, that the country happily returns to normality, and so much more your deadlocks are growing and your rate of return is, of course, speeding up to 3%, that is, the most populist party, the straightforward divider. Because we do not forget: 'Or we are ending them or ending them. Either we or them.' You are a party that, with monstrous lies, defied the Greek people's vote and, of course, saved the account and the Greek people with 100 billion. an account. And now that you've been left with a narrative, because your illusions have been disproved and all that, you're suddenly staying without an audience. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, even those who may have wanted to give you a second chance in the 2019 elections, unfortunately they are now seeing that you have absolutely no proposal for the present and the future. I do not know how to describe Mr Skourlet's so-called proposals. Everyone wonders in the Group of the European People's Party and, of course, the Greek people who are listening to you, Mr Parliamentary Representative, why you have done the opposite to what you have now made quite clear during your four-year term of office. So you have no proposal at present, nor for the future of the country, and you are trying to exploit, for tiny reasons, even global crises, such as that of the coronary, having the only advantage in Europe, to oppose such a pandemic crisis. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because I cannot repeat what Minister Ploris said today. Today in Serres, in my special homeland, there was a rally against the forced vaccination. I must say and remind you that in all the legislative initiatives for the recovery of the coronary pandemic you were opposed. Let me just say that the main and top speaker of this particular rally today in Serres is Dimitris Kouvelas. None of this has anything to do with the good Member present. He is the Chairman of the Committee for the Evaluation and Compensation of Medicinal Products for Human Use, appointed in 2018 by the Government of SYRIZA. He is the one to whom Mr Polakis gives support despite SYRIZA's recommendations. He's the one with whom the former Deputy Minister agrees with his opposition cress. The same glossary in recent weeks has been with imported inflation. You are, of course, the government of twenty-nine taxes, the government that raised insurance contributions, which increased VAT on food, fuel consumption, the government that has eliminated the middle-class, farmers, farmers, the government that has given rise to oil prices to fundamental market laws, and now speaks as if it has not even heard of increasing the international prices of gas and oil, which have led to this entire price increase. As if you have not heard of the 1.3 billion already given by the government and the 400 million for the energy crisis, which has just been announced in these days. You are bewildered to have the five-year period 2015 - 2019 because what else you can do, since in the normality of which the country is happy to return you do not make it. You say, of course, without the hotel owner, because for thirty months now the Greek people find that the government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis speaks the language of truth and responsibility every day on its side, it shields the country's income, faces distortions and sufferings of many years, reduces taxes and contributions, brings investment and creates new jobs. [[The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] The motion of censure therefore forms part of a battle of tsipras' trenches to limit the leaks to PASOK and maintain without particular internal questioning his presidency. But it has nothing to do with the real problems and the living reality, because it is characteristic that one hour after the motion of censure was tabled by the CEO of one of the largest banks, JP Morgan, it was passing through the threshold of the Grand Maximos, voting for confidence in the Greek economy and its prospects. So this new normality and the new course of your country is annoying and you are trying very arrogantly and popularly to exploit it through the party utilization of the climate of indignation and fairness felt by the inhabitants of the Attica Lecade by the bad and incorrect manipulations in the management of the recent snowfall.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u282	Complete, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. The Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has asked for a sincere apologies for what has happened in recent days and for which we are all deeply concerned. They apologied and many Members of this House for our resignation from empathy and respect for the citizens. I, too, call for a humble and genuine apologies to all those who have been troubled, hidden, wrathed or disappointed by a state that we still have not managed to make it work as it should in such extreme weather conditions. But we will do so because there is a plan, there is a very friendly government and why we are taught by our mistakes. That is why we are all working, working with the government, working with the Prime Minister, and of course we are voting against SYRIZA's proposal of distrust. Thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Just one word about what we heard about Serres and the demonstration. I will say for my country Kavala, my favourite Kavala, and for the great demonstration that took place a few days ago and which proves why we tabled the motion of censure. In a prefecture that you took 42% became a grand mobilization of workers from Corinth to Thrace from all over Greece, against your anti-government plans, against the complex of your local executives with large companies, against what's going on there. And let's see next time in Kavala how many MPs New Democracy will make. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That was a report that had to be made. But let us also come to an analysis of what has happened these days in the House. You know I am very happy to speak in this motion of censure. I am very happy for the SYRIZA's political initiative, for the political initiative of Alexis Tsipras that demonstrates both our political leadership and the possibility of expressing and representing the Greek citizen. Because that's your political failure. I do not know if it is a message that at the moment in the Chamber there are only two in the government chairs by your ministers and fewer than ten Members in the Chamber to defend the government. We forced you to defend a government of failure. We forced you to show everything perfectly when you and your most fanatical supporters have been indignant and when you've filled the internet with shades that make you laugh at, uploaded, with a thousand two. Because there is also the joke that it is fortunately over by the Army on the Attica and the Mediterranean, to take over the Navy for the floods now. Because we were surprised to hear the Minister responsible - and good for saying so - saying that there was no order. However, we will see these in the next few years because they have too much to be investigated. It is very right that the proposal we have tabled because we have succeeded in highlighting the enormous contradiction you are in, on the one hand, a communication apologies for hypocrisy and arrogance, which has not convinced anyone, nor your own members - and do not say of our own members. See what your own executives say, see what your MEPs say, see the problem you have in the right-hand apartment - the great contradiction between the communication apology and the great opposition to the attack on SYRIZA because it exercises a constitutional right. So what did you want us to do? Do we fire ourselves in the Constitution, or do patronage within the House for your own failure? I've read quite a lot about what's been written, analyzing the situation and explaining your inability and your mess. The most important text, which, I say from the outset, rightly criticizes SYRIZA - probably Panos Skourletis will fight me after that, but I will advertise the text, which he correctly criticizes to SYRIZA - is Yiannis Triantis in the news247.gr entitled: "You will pay for it exactly-natured Maximos". And since little can confuse you with this word, the "natured", for you who are all day long in the churches and read the evangelical texts, it is from the letter of Apostle Paul to Corinthians, and the phrase fits exactly to you: "And you are planted together, and not you have better." That is exactly what you are doing in arrogance. I expect a subsequent amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the House or of the Constitution to come a proposal from the New Democracy - I do not know whether some of them will sign it, too, from PASOK or KINAL - to have a certificate of polling before the motion of censure because we are listening to these unprecedented things in here. I say this, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, trust the polls, don't be afraid. Proceed to elections, trust them. You are the first party and you are very different. You have no problem. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You tell us: 'Why have you tabled a motion of censure'? I will endorse what Harris Kastanides said today, and I will once again say that what he says in this Chamber finds me perfectly in agreement. It has given a full political response to this issue. But the question is why you tabled a motion of censure I tell you what the citizens tell us. We are not asked why you tabled a motion of censure. Our citizens ask: 'Why have you been delayed'? Because what you have done especially in recent years is beyond any political tolerance. So I say it again, we are not fighting for polling. We have no anxiety about what the second or third party is. We are struggling for that maximum progressive majority that will put you to the opposition. So please trust the polls and proceed to elections. I am a Piraeus MEP and when I go to this Step for a motion of distrust I cannot comment briefly - and I will table it in the Minutes too - on your failure in many areas in Piraeus that impose this motion of censure. In the health sector you brought the State of Nice and the "Juneo" into a desperate state. We've been subscribing health centers. In the field of education schools without teachers, children without school meals, for full inconsistency about the tests, for exclusion from access to the HEIs according to children's statistics from these areas, from the western Attica in general. In the field of the environment for your criminal design in relation to garbage and what you want to do, especially in Piraeus II, with the assignment - as opposed to us - of a short-term concession with rented sites while we gave a lot of space to self-government for the immunity of "COSCO" with the disposal of waterfalls with toxic materials from the port of Piraeus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. It's too much. I am tabling these in the Minutes because I do not have time to analyse all the things that the citizens of Piraeus are against you. With the great difference that we had as the first second party, you will be very struggling with Piraeus to keep the position of the second party. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude only with one comment. I see here Giannis Vroutsi, who has not only knowledge of insurance matters, because, based on his knowledge of insurance matters, he has put on the time of history what the New Democracy says beforehand and has not abolished the Katrugalou law, but has modified it. He doesn't just know about insurance. We have a political disagreement, you know, beyond being in the same trade union space. He's also aware of tax. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Mr Brutsi, because a number of your ministers, a first-classist, do not want to say his name of sadness, said here on Friday, January 28th that SYRIZA imposed thirty new taxes. Be careful, that any of your executives now tell you, no extreme, no curious, no sprayed, to say it, but because you know from tax law a request in collaboration with Mr Spanakis make a list of taxes imposed by SYRIZA and ask this Minister to withdraw the lie he said. If you bring me a 30-tax list of taxes imposed by SYRIZA from this Step I'll apologize. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, too. Good evening to you and me. Happy birthday to those who celebrate. We are starting with the political leaders and vice versa and first and foremost the Chief of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Yiannis Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. We've been living for days of the collapse of a great lie. Snow, pandemic, accuracy highlighted this great lie, that is, the private sector makes it all better and the state oversees the private sector. Tonight's vote of distrust - reproaching the government and the Prime Minister may not personally throw them today, but will make a significant contribution to demolition of this great lie. It is not the private sector that makes it any better, nor, of course, this bankrupt, dependent, devalued state can supervise the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, how can an end function when the ordinances are in the government and the real staff guide them from the background? Part of the great lie is the so-called market and state conflict. What market? The market, where there is, for example in retail trade, is now falling apart in favour of monopolies and you only invoke it in favour of monopolies where there is no market, to be more precise where there is no market. Take the drivers ready to enter Attica Street. There's no market there. There's a road. Either they go in and trust the road, or they don't. There is no market for rail passengers. There's a station, a train. Whether you take it and trust it or not. For people and households without electricity in the dark there is no market. A cable comes out of the wall, which generates a very expensive current. For the sick who have to undergo surgery that the consciously degraded and degraded national health system has been forced - particularly in the midst of a pandemic - to cancel, for these people there is no market for them. The local clinic chief is in the caracodore. So buy yachts. You abolished it, the Members of the original Memorandum Block, PASOK and New Democracy, also helped you after SYRIZA with 24% VAT, with the pre-paid tax, with the continued state support of bankers who, at the time they receive public money, draw the carpet under the legs of small and medium-sized enterprises, with the privatisation of natural monopolies. In the name of the market you have been murdering for years now, you have been building the abominable oligarchy. Motorways, electricity, ports, airports, trains, water, all the neural areas in which by definition there is no market and you can't afford to sell them, i.e. you sell them out in the name of the market - here is the nice one - not to entrepreneurs, to income earners, to state incomes. And as long as the weather is good these motorway operators collect tolls, tolls, tolls. And once the first snow comes, it covers not just their inability, but their priorities. The priorities of private individuals - and I think there is no room for disagreement here - are not the priorities of society. Many municipalities and regions well, poorly, lame, are wrong despite the huge reduction in funds since 2010 by 60% have managed to keep several streets open, unlike the fewer ones. Why? Because prevention of failure costs fewer people. They're not incompetent, they just win when they don't invest in preventing disaster. That is a profitable deliberate failure. For the private who exploits a road, whoever it is, Attica, New Street, Olympia - it doesn't matter - the decaying of the citizen who stuck in the snow is a cost. Think about that. This is not the case for the state mechanism whose cost, at least, payroll, is independent of how many people they decapitate. It's a matter of incentives here. So that's it. Individuals collect tolls, tolls, tolls in summer. But when a problem arises, a snow, a pandemic, which is what it is and which calls for compensation from the state, since we are talking about roads. Five million warm money was provided in the midst of a pandemic as compensation to the "AKOR ATT". Thirteen and a half million in Olympia. And the Riu-Antwerion Bridge 5.3. On the Aegean highway 6.7. In order not to talk about the FRAPORT colonialism you have given 180 million. You're not ashamed of yourself. They took our airports free of charge with money borrowed by the Greek banks that the Greek people recapitalised, and received compensation. Wasn't the same with the health pandemic? As soon as COVID hit us where he left the clinicians. They ran to hide at a time when they even doubled the price they charged to the public for services that they purchased from the public. While the mispaid, deported, slandered doctors and nurses of the National Health System fell by self-determination in the battle for rescuing and treating our fellow humans. The same goes for accuracy. By increasing the cost of natural gas - energy - or raw materials, what do supermarbles and monopolies of electricity providers do? Judging party. That's what they do. Rests far higher than the rate of increase in costs. They're winning in other words. These aren't mistakes. They're not failures. This is happening with a programme, ladies and gentlemen. It is because the state-owned few-governments on the one hand operate without market discipline. Note that you want to think of yourself neoliberal. Is that right? They work without market discipline. What market? They're monopolies. While, on the other hand, they are under supervision, it is assumed, governments that have you in their pocket. The joke? In the eye of the mass deception they own. They're theirs. So how can the idea breathe, the spirit of public utility when the only guide is the share profit of monopolies that also control the government and the media? Is that what it's called? Determination of the democratic pluralism. That's what it's called. A catalyst of the democratic culture for which you people of the state oligarchy are now working for decades, long before the bankruptcy of the Greek state and the troika. Of course your work, your vision of the state oligarchy, required the bankruptcy of 2010 and the imposition of a domicile regime by the troika. This devastation of the democratic culture is not stable. It increases exponentially. And she reached her peak with you, the New Democracy. The catastrophe of the democratic culture with the organizing of Greece by the so-called liberal Mr.Mitsotakis reached its peak. Do you dare persecute journalists because they dared to uncover or investigate the scandals of your bosses? Do you dare prosecute MPs for their responsible statements from the Step of the House? You sent - and this was a little pragmatism - hundreds of young police officers violating the Constitution in Queens Wisdom so that a November 17 would stop seven Members from walking on the street. But I will be back in the field of services of general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be clear and technocratic, the catastrophe of the democratic culture has allowed and accelerated the logic of salamification of the utilities. Think about it. Regardless of ideological differences, when you extract the maintenance of a network from its management, whether it's rail, PPC, or it's streets, when you get maintenance and distraction from management, what coordination can you expect at the bad moment, at a difficult time, whether it's snow, or a pandemic? When the state holds the responsibility of pulling the snake out of the hole in the bad moment and doing so with less and less staff, infrastructure, budget, while giving the state-owned few-farmers the right to collect, collect, collect, collect, collect, in good times, what should we expect? When you trust drivers to decapitate oligarch who costs them every decapitation, what should we expect? How difficult is it to understand that the private health sector sees prevention, primary care as its greatest enemy? What, ladies and gentlemen, is the real nightmare of the private health sector? Can I talk to you? To make all people well and not to get sick. Prevention is the nightmare of businesspeople in the field of private health. She doesn't want it. What's more profitable? Think about it. What is more profitable for the clinical chief? To keep a person from being diabetic? Prevention of diabetes? Or the continued provision of expensive health services to a person who became diabetic? It's clear. I would like to make an important parentheses, since I referred to PPC. Mr. Hadjidakis told us that with the increase of the share capital and the sale of the TEDO there is enough money in PPC's funds, and so he predicted that if the price of the share is around EUR 9, the piece will be a competition for investors who will throw billions to buy it. Now we see that PPC's share has fallen to 8.5 euros. There's no demand. Was it a disgrace to you what Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Hatzidakis were saying? It was. I ask this as an adversary question so that you are not wrong that we do not know what you are doing against the public interest in all areas. I close parentheses and come to the sad image of the New Democracy colleagues this three-day day. It's a sad picture of you. You came here today by order to contribute as much as you can to the efforts to restore the prepared image of the CEO of "Metsotakis S.A.", the Prime Minister. I'll wait. I'll see you later. This is where we'll all be together. Mr. Mitsotakis will rise to speak and stand up, you will all be thrown up and all standing up, as if you have motives, applaud enthusiastically. Absorb him. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] As if it had not been prioritised by the cloning of the last few days that one of you was throwing it to another, as if for all it were Mr. Patoulis' fault and a particular company on a particular road, which you of course are using as a rival victim. And I'll hit them together. Sure. I'm fine with it. Just like all the few of them. Not just with them. He's leaving a company and another company is coming. Like the other one's gonna be better. Friends of SYRIZA, a good question. Mr. Tsipras in particular, who's not here, but I'll put it to him. Hypothetically, if the government and Mr. Tsipras fall back into Maximou as Prime Minister, now that the Attica Road Convention is over, will you renew it? Will you give the Attica Road to another member of the oligarch group, or will we get it back to the public sector? Yes or no? I ask really well. This is not even a break. A contract is over. We do not renew it and show the citizens that a new type of public utility can be managed by the public by a common public emblematic way. I'm waiting for Mr. Tsipras to answer. I'm afraid he won't answer. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over by the President of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras in particular, away from us the equal distances. But, as Martin Luther King once said at the end, we will not remember the screams, the voices, the words and the words of the enemies, but the silence of the friends. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] If you do not promise that the Attica Road will return to the public, three of them are: Or the Troika will not let you, so you admit that you did not throw it off either, that you too believe that the state-owned oligars are doing better, or you do not believe that the state-owned oligars are doing better, but you have also entered into sharing. Whatever is happening, you are canceled by any debate about any so-called progressive governance. I'll ask Mr. Mitsotakis a question. I hope he hears me from where he is. Last year, Mr. Mitsotakis, you described "Medea", last year's bad weather, something unprecedented. "Nothing like that has ever happened," you said. "I will take all initiatives to deal with something similar in the future," you said. You've told them in the familiar style of the rosary, who knows absolutely nothing. Just like when the Prime Minister spoke to us here in the House and in the Presidential House in his familiar style and told us about a great algorithm with which he would stop incidents at airports without a test. A little apologies for this arrowbat? For the time you promised us over a thousand vaccination centres you didn't do? For the time you were saying it doesn't matter if the intubed man is inside the ICU, outside the ICU, in the garden? For the time you were commanding the fire department not to enter the woods, letting the inhabitants of northern Evia wipe out the fires and save their homes on their own? We at Mera25 do not blame you, Mr. Mitsotakis, because you are incapable. Your obvious inability is passed and we focus on something else, something worse: on your treachery, on the two-step strategy you are following. What's the first step? It lets destruction evolve, because as the clinical chief cannot capitalise the prevention, so in the "Metsotakis S.A." you cannot capitalise the normality of the Greek people. You chose not to invest in anti-nuclear protection, forest cleaning, maintenance of the gates and cables, which would minimize damage and power cuts, just as from the beginning of the pandemic you choose not to invest in the public network of centres for mass testing, which could then be left with a dowry in the National Health System as a primary care network. You see, ladies and gentlemen, prevention has no tradition of our state-owned oligarchy. Then the second step comes. As soon as the prescribed disaster occurs, Mr. Mitsotakis appears with his well-known style and begins to share a loan from the troika, money, not a social dividend. Myon, it's the cashier. From the troika, you borrow it to share it. And where do you share it? Potatoes in the state-run oligarchs - who forgets the gifts in "TERNA" after northern Evia; - and, of course, crumbs in many, victims. By the way, I'm looking at you in the eye and asking you a question: The thousand, for which you are choking, for these workers who are trapped in the Attica Road in a duty time, who will get it? Will the worker driver get it locked up or the employer to whom the car belongs? An answer wouldn't be bad. Citizens who hear us out there - if you can hear us, if we are not deceived as a Parliament and you are still listening to us - that's what matters, because the result of Mr Mitsotakis' two-step strategy is twofold: debt and disaster for many, over-profit for the very few. There's a logic in Mr. Mitsotakis' chaos. His feminism by a God's engine after the planned failure makes sense and has a very, very, very small tradition of "Metsotakis S.A.". And not to go too far, we read what you're thinking about doing in the next few days. Days! You'll share 1 billion euros in the same old man. You grant them important water projects, such as the Chavia dam in Halkidiki -86 millions - the water supply of the Preveza, Artas, Lefkada -133 million - the Bramian and Plati dams, 70 million and 130 million respectively. Who do you share them with? In 'TERNA', 'INTRAKAT', 'SUEZ', 'NATOR' mainly, but also in others. Other 294,5 million will be divided into "TERNA", "AKEKOR", "AVAX", "MYTILINEOS", "INTRAKAT" to build, says, seven civil protection centres across the territory. Another 139.6 million for the new buildings of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure on Piraeus Street to go? ‘TERNA’, ‘AVEX’, ‘MYTILINEOS’, ‘INTRAKAT’, ‘TEKAL-JCC’ and ‘MYTHANIC’. And the list is supplemented with 120 million "wounding" again "AVAX", "AKATOR", "TERNA", "MYTILINEOS", "INTRAKAT", "MHANIKI" and "TEKAL-JCC" for the construction, says, of Judges in Edessa, Serres, Kilkis, reconstructing the Justice of Thessaloniki and - this is interesting - for the maintenance and management of them. They'll manage the courthouses. Here, what hides behind the logic of chaos, behind the planned failure of "Metsotakis S.A.". One billion for the state-owned few-governs only for the next few days. Uh, what soul is there in front of it and a polluting prime minister's apologies? Ladies and gentlemen, they're on the same pattern. Their private friends will give us dams, they'll give us roads, they'll set us up centers and courts. And when they fail, when the fall is done, uh, there'll also be one of their own Prime Ministers in Maximus smacking and an apology to the citizen who pays and the price and the broken ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this government must fall today, yesterday, tomorrow. The question that counts for us is what government has to come. It will be a government that will get Attica back from the poorer ones, it will be a government that will put an end to the food that I mentioned, and to the new privatizations that are taking place in a new portfolio, new fiasco, new debt in favour of the same drones, or will be a government that will continue the same food, and perhaps a few other oligars, who are more or less supported by the "Metsotakis S.A.", a government that will continue the great lie, that is, there is no alternative than the same few people, why do they know and do better? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Mitsotakis, at a time when even your mass deceptions are chasing you and erasing you, at a time when the many people out there laughing at you, who make merchandises your best support is here in Parliament to make a confrontation on the basis of who is more adequate or less inadequate. You're interested in such an opposition, such a cockfight. We don't make this as Mera25. "Happy" and snow will be said by Mr. Tsipras today, Eye will be answered by you. Mandra, you tell him, North Evia, Mr. Tsipras will answer. Such an opposition suits oligarchy, which has no problem with one of its employees being accused of insufficiency, when the real issue is not failure, are the objectives of the governments, the mania of serving all the demands of the state-owned oligarch. Friends of SYRIZA, don't make a mistake. We in Mera25 do not have equal distances, nor do we have a level playing field. We are here to make political opposition, to look at you in the eyes and all the colleagues and say two simple, straightforward words. Firstly, the so-called "final" state must fall, because the staff are both the few-government ministries and Maximos dwell their ordinances. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] At the same time, this government must fall not just to come to another one, but to finish the stringing oligarchy. We are obviously voting in favour of the motion of censure tabled by Mr Tsipras against the government and the Prime Minister, but for us tonight the vote of censure against the oligarchy, which we do not hesitate to name again and again from the Step of the House. " He lives now in the rest of the opposition parties - I don't mean the KKE, we get you out of it and we recognize your attitude - he lives in Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Androullakis. Are you questioning the "Metsotakis S.A." for failure? Just inability? Or do you commit, like us, to cutting off the legs of the state-owned oligarchy that moves its strings and which would have no problem in moving your strings, if you're rejoining the ministries? [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Will you dare do what Mera25 does, name the fewer? What do you think? To have a good question and to be specific, I would like to ask again the question: will we return the Attica Road to the public? Will we abolish the energy stock exchange that enables the electricity site's oligarchs cartel to send PPC's accounts to the stratosphere? Do we throw the predators out of the water infrastructures, from our water? Are we going to abolish HARAKEL against the funds so that we can save our people's first residence and micromass? Will we proceed to automatic indexation of minimum wages and social benefits? More generally, this is a question to everyone and everyone: will we finally go the highest VAT from 24% to 15% in a broken economy? [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Are we going to abolish tax advances? Are we going to say a definitive end to the mining and the pipelines? We're investing in the future fuel, where's the green hydrogen? Are we going to raise our voices against the Natonic escalation, the tensions in Ukraine and the conversion of Souda and Alexandroupolis into the bulwarks of the US army? Will we, in other words, do all that is required by society and will make the country a pioneer in the fight for peace and against climate disaster? In conclusion, Mr President, we are not voting in favour of the motion of censure, nor is it basically because of the inability of the 'Metsotakis S.A.'. Of course, you're also incompetent. Of course, you are also analgesic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u288	And you're showing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u289	No, of course not personally, my dear mayor. Don't take it personally and don't have the fly! You mustn't smell. Analgesia, do you want to talk about analgesia? Take a look at Arkalochori, Crete. Look at what situation so long after the earthquake is the people and we have a Prime Minister who's supposed to keep from Crete. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] The problem, however, goes far beyond analgesia and your inability. It is designed, planned, profitable for the few-government failure of a dependent state that has delivered and delivered all the services of general interest, all the networks that it built with public investment from its late decades, the Greek people to the very few to plunder them with a plan. Merra25 is here to uncover the great truth, that the gentlemen - usually are, there are not many ladies, huh - who are moving the threads of this government are not even businessmen, incomes. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Merra25 is here to remind us in the midst of pandemic, snow, poverty of many, that every network, service, or good of general interest which is being privatised is being undermined, that any new funds that come mainly in the form of a new debt of the troika enriches the small and medium-sized ones at the expense of the majority. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] That is what we are voting against tonight. Whether you're New Democracy government or others who just want to be Caliphs in the Caliph position, we're not interested in changing state oligarchs. We in Mera25 are not interested in the rotation of interlinked stateism on the one hand and state-owned interdependent on the other. For us what matters are decentralised, participatory, sustainable economic activities on the basis of advanced green technologies, which allow us to abolish monopolies and democratise the production and distribution of services of general interest. At this time when we will vote against Mitsotakis S.A., we call on the youth to come forward, unintentionally, to collide with the group of companies and states, a complex that jointly destroys their future, denounces public schools and universities through imaginable expropriation systems that push them into migration, devastates the country, which undermines democracy in Greece and Europe and at the same time threatens peace in the world. At this time when we are voting against the "Metsotakis SA", we in Mera25 call all, independently of age and independently and party positioning, in a pallic conspiracy against oligarchy. Yes, well, a vote of distrust tonight at the "Metsotakis S.A.", as well as reluctance to any government of the oligarchy without borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. And immediately after Mr Varoufakis, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, is called at Step for his own current intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start with something to which only two of the speakers have referred, Mr Vitsas - if I am not mistaken - and one more from New Democracy, Mr Manolakos. Like today, in 1996, three lads left, we had the Imia. It's time for this story to be opened. For us, if that government were to take place on that black night, if it were Greek and national, obviously, the question of Turkey's Greek sovereignty would not exist today. Then the shooters of that period sent to death three young children, one of whom we have to say: Forever their memory! Jalochus, Karathanasis and Blahakos! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But that story has a name and it's called "Kostas Simitis and the pluss", to tell you everything, because you're flirting with Simitis lately you in the New Democracy, unfortunately. You've gathered many "Simulants", forgetting what they did that night, blow the air to take the flag and we're not a little ashamed. And they have never assumed their responsibilities, some who with courage even today apologise do not ask for what has happened. But I have something to say to the President of Parliament. Yesterday, every sense of democratic procedure and Rules of Procedure of the House was really dissolved. It's not the first time, I wasn't expecting anything else anyway. Suddenly you're so same, so similar, yesterday the last fig sheet fell. Mr Presidents of the parties, while we do not see any of you everyday here - I am here every day, there are no Presidents, they have other jobs, I imagine, people, while I have business, I am here from the morning to the afternoon - suddenly, Saturday night, as if they went to the tavern, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Mitsotakis at the same time was here. It's all just random! I imagine one is the master Calchas and the other, the master of Tyresia. By violating the Rules of Procedure, they took the floor without the other political leaders. I understand the arrogance of the percentages of polls and the vindication they can create to someone, but arrogance and vindication are the weak, not the powerful. The powerful are moderate, objective and have urban politeness. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So, what did the two mothers do yesterday? They came here and what did they do? A behavior that causes grief, I'd say, not indignation. I do not care how undergroundly the system is intertwined or involved - SYRIZA and New Democracy - I do not care, I do not care, but the Greeks must understand that they are both mocking him. A rigged game for communication impressions only! I am sad that the Bureau has also participated in this game. No one should be given the floor yesterday. Inadmissible! But, anyway, if there were a lot of democracy in here, they would have been apologied for their crimes, like Simitis and the rest. So because, in the country of political responsibility, which is the alibi of criminals and criminal offences, I cannot ask for responsibility anymore, there is political responsibility and that is why there is impunity. The Prime Minister said that - the Prime Minister himself - I imagine he will come with Mr. Tsipras to speak, because the appointment is a little later, so they are, the dates are given early to know what will do at night - we shield the mechanisms, because we are constantly learning from our mistakes. I'll say something very simple. If I had one in charge of my company, and for two and a half years he made mistakes, I'd always have fired him the next day. Two and a half years New Democracy has made mistakes. You're the government of mistakes! Really, the government of the mistakes! But what I did not understand is why the Greek Prime Minister begins in two and a half years to refer to two and a half years. The New Democracy wasn't a government for twenty years? Mr. Mitsotakis has not been a Member since 2007 and Minister for decades? Doesn't it bear any responsibility for people staying in the snow? A fan of the electric car is the Prime Minister. Imagine two and a half thousand cars being electrical on Attica Road, people would have died in electric cars because they don't have energy, gentlemen. Do you understand what crimes you're going to do? And we're talking about evidence. The problem is that the New Democracy MPs say the strange relentless: 'The Prime Minister said apologies'. Did the Prime Minister say sorry? Because the Prime Minister apologised, so do we have to say, and thank you? He said I was sorry. He's the only one who said sorry. So since everyone else is broken, we have to accept the curious wording of apologizing. I won't tell what they say in my village about apology and honor. Oh, no. I'll say something else, though. To apologize, he did something wrong. What's the harm he did? Along with his Government he was inadequate in the face of circumstances. And how will this government pay for its inadequacy? I'm asking. So SYRIZA makes a motion of censure. All I want to say to SYRIZA is that when we asked for elections in November, SYRIZA did not follow. He followed now because the popular monster came, the huge PASOK coming 27% - I'll tell you soon what the polls mean - and he starts a ping pong civilization, microculturalism, micro-partyism only. If we think we're doing work outside and people don't see, you're wrong. You're wrong. So the problems that the New Democracy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, has today, are too much: First, management of the pandemic. Secondly, problems during bad weather. Third, inflation. Fourthly, a problem of lack of contact with society. Fifth, no rival. It is a big problem for a government not to have a good opposition. I fully agree with you. But I'll tell you something. Today you have an opponent, you have the only voice in Parliament, because KINAL is a friendly participation of all. Let's not forget. Friendly participation is KINAL. I'm just saying that to understand some people and I'll prove it to you with evidence to a little bit of what I mean. So now you have an opponent. And this opponent has a name and is called the Greek Solution. We will be your real opponent with arguments and suggestions, but not populism, not extremism. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Six, you have another problem with the traps of electoral law. You'll cook them the law again. Will you bring election law again? So micro-groups do you rule? This is written in the papers. Seventh, national issues. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you really are the worst government in the world. I can't compare you to SYRIZA because they did the great betrayal of Macedonia. You're the worst. I prove it. At the pandemic in the first trinity in the European Union in deaths, in energy first, in fact, first, in energy prices, in debt first, in deficits in the worst combination, in real incomes, in fact, in terms of a number of extreme weather diseases. What else do you want me to prove that there is a problem with the country's governance? You see the evidence, I'm not telling you anything else. Leave the rest. I'm not telling you to go to the market. I'm not telling you, go to the stores and see what's going on. I'm not saying that because I know what's going on in the stores. Many of you may not know, but I do. I've got business and I've already got one with closure. The Minister of Finance is here. The Minister knows. There's nothing man can do, but every five months, three months the ILO and the tax on my business is. I'm sick of them. People do their job, but I want them to go to both the Reds and the "ATTICE" to go elsewhere. I don't think it's imminent or that some people did it, but I'm getting over it. Steady tactics by bankrupt parties with political tactics, purely political, with unsettled contours. I've been watching all day since yesterday. I didn't really hear proposals. I'm sad to say it. I didn't hear any suggestions to help. These bad guys as you want to shoot them, shoot them, you, we vote, but I have not heard any specific proposals from you. An insurmountable populism, an argument for a waste, a figurative one to abolish oil, to abolish mining, to abolish this, to reduce VAT. I can't hear a proposal. That's why we're different. New Republic, SYRIZA and KINAL unfortunately you are the same. And I will say something that I have been dealing with in politics for a few years, not much, but as a politician I understand. What did you do now in SYRIZA? Because you see that the polls and the system want to promote the helm, you made a motion of censure, and I am referring to the helm, and I will prove it to you with arguments. I may be wrong, but the evidence will be seen in a little bit here. So I'm saying this. You made a motion of censure. At the time the Prime Minister was bent on what happened, you give him an alibi to rally his party, to assemble his MPs by giving him an alibi, an alibi of aggregation. I think it was a political mistake. Perhaps the instincts of SYRIZA's survival against KINAL, who is allegedly coming, forced him and dragged behind the motion of censure. It had to be sooner or later, ten days later. So you want proof of who supports who in here and I want the Greek people to listen to me. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA votes 50% of the New Democracy bills. He probably passed a hundred and twenty - four bills from the two hundred fifty - eight brought by New Democracy. KINAL votes 70% of the New Democracy bills. Where do you differ? If 50% of the bills like you, if you like 70% of what's different? Why do we have to change government, since you're saying the same thing to KINAL? And in SYRIZA you're not very different, 50% you say. I don't get it. Listen. He voted for the KINAL a hundred and seventy-nine New Democracy bills, and it is the new one coming from the past, which has, of course, been bankrupt. I'm telling you to understand. Now as Opposition New Democracy has voted 64% of SYRIZA's bills. So, where do you differ? You tell me. Where do you differ? You have been an informal coup d'état for many years and you will be real coup d'état in the coming years after the elections. But then there will be a voice of Greek, patriotic, national with reason and wisdom to make real opposition. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I shall therefore submit to the Minutes the bills that the parties have passed among themselves so that the Greeks understand who is mocking who. So the MEP of PASOK, KINAL, Mr Androullakis, who is promoted by the system, said 'we will vote for the motion of censure, but we do not want elections'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u292	He was elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u293	Isn't he a Member of the European Parliament? I'm reducing him? Did he resign from a Member of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u294	He's a president.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u295	Oh, he's president too. He is also a Member of the European Parliament and of the President. I'm sorry. However, I, when I was a Member of the European Parliament, resigned before I became President. Let's actually go. So Mr Androlyakis doesn't want an early pandemic election. That's what he said. I agree entirely with him, but in the pandemic he held elections. Inside the pandemic you made internal elections - what arguments are these? - with the natural presence of people in stacked electoral centres. This is not how it is that the European Parliament, the President of PASOK, is theoretically represented on your resignation. KINAL says: "We will vote for the motion of censure, but we say no to elections. Well, I'm against the government, but I don't want it to fall." How's that working out? Somebody on the left can explain what the poet means. I don't understand it. Maybe it's the index of my intelligence that's not as high as Mr. Androulakis's, and I don't get his messages. I will not say that it still retains the name 'KINAL' nor will I say about the millions that its party owes. He didn't tell us what he was gonna do with all this. You'll tell me that New Democracy owes too much money. The Prime Minister had pledged to pay for it. They're still waiting for the funds to go something to give. That's not how it works. And because, well, you're putting the opinion polls on young people to rise up, I'm going to give this to the Minutes here. So listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy. "New poll gives the river 14.5%"! Listen to a poll dated April 14, 2014. In September, in the ninth month, elections were held. He took 4%. Is that how you're gonna make politics? Do you, by polls, make politics in New Democracy? With the polls, will you all make politics? Are you serious? It's a bubble, which will blow up because - I repeat - the system needs someone to be supported and supported, whether from here or from there, because the system always has two dashboards. And I say it, so we can understand that I cannot hear New Democracy saying that, in the midst of a pandemic, we cannot have elections! Portugal is holding elections next month. And Germany, who loves the Prime Minister and his government - worships Germany - did elections. Not to say PASOK did elections too. Is that right? So you were looking for pretexts to lie to the Greek people and that's what bothers me as a human, as a person who thinks a little more or who wants to think a little more. Why? You're the same, you're the same. Follow the same practice, follow the same policy. You serve the fewer people and not the Greek people and Greece, unfortunately. Unfortunately, I'm saying it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because some will be wondering what the government's mistakes are, listen. The Prime Minister himself had made a statement that for him there is no political responsibility and that responsibility means resignation. And I agreed with him then. He was with Matty. With Matti, listen, he said - for the Greeks political responsibility is the alibi of the failed politician, I say this - the Prime Minister: "I cannot understand what political responsibility means without any resignation." I didn't see anyone quit. I didn't see, I didn't hear. If you heard, tell me why I haven't heard from anyone. A government that does not take responsibility, is not just useless, is completely useless and not excellent, unfortunately. That's why we're here. Attica: 'It is the Minister's fault'. Minister: 'It is the Attica Street'. Attica and government: 'It is Patulis'. Hey, guys, who's the fault of it? You tell me. Is it the Hajipeter's fault? It's nobody's fault? You loaded it all to Patolis. It's Paul's fault. Find a scapegoat to do other kinds of games in the region, but find some good reason to give him a responsibility. It's 100% government! You are the leader, you rule, you choose the path of the sequence of events and you have not followed the facts! Let's go to the rest. The Prime Minister said that 2,000 euros can be compensated for by people. He forgot to say that in the evening, at the same time, the Greek Solution required this, with a press release and press release. But he did not say that citizens should prove - listen - fault. The road belongs to the TIAD. There are legal obstacles. I've heard law-abiding lawyers say there's a lawsuit problem today. The road is the road, ladies and gentlemen. Who gave it? Your partner, SYRIZA, in 2016, did the following: He relieved TIADE from all civil and criminal liability. In 2016 this was done. Now, Greek, how similar they are, how same they are! And they're no different! And KINAL can vote either from here or from there. I would therefore ask the Greeks to understand that the three parties do not differ substantially. Do you want to be useful, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Would you like to be useful, ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you. Return the toll to the Greeks, which ends the contract in 2024! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Can't you? I've got something better. The principle of proportionality, according to the Constitution: "The more I use the way I will pay." What simpler than that, Minister of Finance? You can't get from Maroussi to Attica Street and pay the same things as a guy who pays from Eleusina to Attica Street. It can't be done! Principle of proportionality and on the National Road. Do I do 10 kilometers? I'll pay a little. Do I do 50 kilometers? I'll pay a little more. Do this, since you are not able to return the money of the Greek people to the Greek people. This company has won 800m euros. Winner, I'm not talking about cigarettes, 800 million euros! This amount could have been taken by the retired, the employee, the Greek poor, the mere worker. You didn't. Final management, final state. Ultimate state, the great invention of the New Democracy! And today we heard the Minister responsible say that it is not the state that is the state that is to blame! The final on the outside went. Listen a little. Unfortunately, your final state is like the unscrupulous ship. Insurmountable ship, management was like this. In the flood, we evacuate the houses. In the fire we evacuate the houses. In the pandemic, we stay home. We're staying at home in the snow. Debts to banks? We're losing the house. You're a good government! You're a good government! You're not ruling! And I'll tell the Prime Minister something with a lot of sympathy. It's coming summer. We need to speed up the fire extinguisher program. This story, planning to strengthen the material, has been far delayed. It's gonna burn people! We'll have fires again and we'll run and we won't get there. It takes double the air. We don't have any planes. The summer was twenty of the seventies we had. I am alarming because millions of acres may have burned but lives - above all people's lives - have been saved, but the property that the state must protect. In the summer that comes, don't mourn victims, and keep what I say to you, because you're making tragic mistakes. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to tell him what is very simple, something that escapes everyone's attention. Without cheap energy it does not improve the economic climate, ladies and gentlemen. No social policy can be supported; unemployment cannot be reduced; wages and pensions cannot be increased. I heard SYRIZA's spokesman earlier say 'give 800-900 euros'. If you give EUR 900, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, private sector wages - I say 1,200 euros, if you like - one third of these employees will be fired, because businesses do not have money. Don't you understand that? So without cheap energy, there can be no national defense. If you've achieved something, all three of you - KINAL, SYRIZA and New Democracy - it's self-evident: If Turkey decides tomorrow and download the MW relay we get, our homeland is over. I'll tell you the numbers now, I have the numbers in front of me. I'm not saying what I want. Listen here. We get 490 MW from Italy, 123 MW from Albania, 239 MW from Skopje, 523 MW from Turkey and 338 MW from Bulgaria. So if tomorrow - because the arc has become 'Albania, Skopje and Turkey' - they download the relay, we will need another 900 MW for our country to be energy-intensive. So you have succeeded and made the country hostage to the enemies of Greece! That's not what Greece deserves! What did you do on energy? Nothing. Full indifference to all governments. And I call on Mr Maniatis - who was at PASOK, to remain from what I know PASOK - an excellent man, an excellent scientist, who wrote an article in "KATHMERINA" confirming what I have been saying for decades. He says, "In Greece they are challengingly interested in making use of the rich Greek natural gas deposits that can generate a turnover of 250 billion euros in Ionian and South Crete". That's what Mr. Maniac says. And we have a Prime Minister who is simply saying: I don't want gas, I don't want oil. I don't want gas, I don't want oil! What do you want? Green energy and green horses! Not 'green horses', but 'green horses'. It is the 'green horses', the color and the 'green horses'. That is what the New Democracy is doing, that is what the New Democracy is doing, while, ladies and gentlemen, the international energy agency has been talking about a decade of energy prices. The next ten years will triple the price of energy! This means that very simply the current of the ferry Greek can go and two and a half times on his invoice. Tell me you, a man of 350 euros how he can live with a 250 euro invoice to come to him in the coming years? It can't be. We have to do something about energy. Since 2016 you have committed this crime. Bring slate gas from the United States. Why should we not take natural gas from another country? I don't understand why I should be a bad guy with Russia because Americans have to make money. You tell me. You bring Turkish gas with the TAP pipeline, one of the reasons why in 2012 I refused the proposal that had been made to me to go back down as a MP. You cannot depend on Turkey and Azerbaijan in your energy. You can't depend on Turkey, Albania, Skopje. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, why do we have expensive gas, why do we have expensive electricity? Has anyone looked into it in here? On the surface, Mr. Varoufakis mentioned it. I will tell you what reasons we have for accurate energy and expensive electricity. It's always your fault. It was the weather the day before, in the fires it was the weather. You are therefore giving rise to an increase in world market power. You're wrong. Because in Greece prices have increased for a longer period than in other countries. MANIFOLD research on the causes of energy accuracy clearly states: Firstly, distortion of competition. Second, speculative episodes. Providers have not taken any risk, have passed on the increases to consumers. Nice businessmen! Stateers. I open an office, I put ten people, I am the "BEL energy" - that's what these companies are saying - I open telephone centres, I get the power down, I sell it as much as I want, I save money. That's not a business, that's a toddler. That's what you and you do. Thirdly, bad commercial practices, with opacity in contracts, accounts of energy providers. That's what Velopoulos says in an international company. Fourth, stock exchange without security controls. I will not say about Mr Hatzidakis, the hunter, the killer of "Olympic", PPC and all of this, who told us that "PPC is doing well on the stock market". And I said to him: 'Will we have a price reduction?'. And he said: 'The stock market is going well'. 'The price will be lowered?' I asked him, he was telling me. That's not how it works. Here's the other crime the government's doing. Good government! He'll give a subsidisation to pure electric cars. And I'm telling you this. If two and a half thousand cars on the Attica Road had electricity and not gasoline and oil, how many would die of the cold? You know? Do you understand that? It's not for every disease the electric car. Listen, gentlemen, SYRIZA, KKE, KINAL and Mer25 - where you are absent - what they are doing: they are subsidising the electric car with 30%. Listen to a crime. Electrical 3,000 euros. For a 5,000 euro car. For a charge smart car subsidisation of 500 euros. I'm asking you, too. Does Greece make such cars? Where's that money going, you know? In Germany. You're committing a crime. And how do you do this crime? By selling LARCO, which, based on the materials of this grand company, could build batteries of electric cars. But you sold her out before you subsidized electric cars. We're talking about situations unbelievable. I don't know how you think about them. So you help the rich Germany suck the blood of the Greeks, donate it financially. Here's what else you've done. You withdrew the choice of energy jacks, that is, a cheap and Greek solution. Because energy fireplaces are also manufactured by Greece, but biomass is also manufactured in our country. And you withdrew them so I could go get what? Electric car? Why don't you help the Greek companies? I will also say something to the Prime Minister, who insists on 'green horses', 'green horses'. Greece has increased its wind power for twenty years. 100%! Is the current value reduced? Has the invoice been reduced to the ordinary man, the pensioner, the civil servant? No, because we're counting on imports. It's just stuff. What do you have to do? Exploration of natural gas, oil, nuclear energy at last, opening of lignite by 2050 and dropping the price. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, another sentence is the following... Are you tired, Admiral? You want to hear the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u296	I didn't have time to talk because the others spoke seven and a half minutes. You 15 speak thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u297	To the leaders, we show an understanding. We said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u298	When your Chief speaks, will you be so annoying? Oh, no. Be fair. You're a man of honor. Yesterday, your President spoke in violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you did not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u299	No, the Rules of Procedure haven't been broken. I'll tell you at the end. I don't want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u300	I'm entitled to a dentist then. Unless I'm waiting for a butcher at the door of the House to shut up, talk, leave and come back the next day. It's not like that. Mr. Kutsuba, I'm not wrong. But we said, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Not you, Mr President, but the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u301	You flatter us.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u302	Possibly. But the earliest honest life is not very honest at the level of behavior toward the Greek Solution. Let's go talk about the rest. I'm making a suggestion. EMEAFAR. 800 million a year I pay for wind turbines inside my account. Suspense the payment of EMFF and PPC's accounts will be reduced to 40% of each household. Our special scientists did it. You do not, however, because you serve five oliggers, five big-fashioned pimps said by Constantine Karamanlis II here when he started the undeniable against pimps, which you do not dare do. At some point, someone has to do it. So let's go talk about the economy. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are conducting a policy of finance with borrowers. Loan! Who's gonna pay? Have you said that? You said you gave 43 billion. Did you give it from your pocket? I was listening to Members of the New Democracy being taken on because they were given - it says - 43 billion. We did - they said - 43 billion. You didn't give. You borrowed. You are indebted to Greece again to give benefits. That is not an economic policy. Did you tell him to Greek who's gonna pay the fund? Oh, no. But Christine Lagard said so, your sympathy. What did he say? ‘ Member States' koruna must be repaid. It's a necessity. As a personal debt is repaid, a state debt is repaid," Lagard said. So, 43 billion have been indebted to the country once again. 43 billion! Half of it is loan. The rest of the “air-father”. In any case, because you voted for them too. So you made the country worse on everything. The country is secondly poorer in the European Union at a purchase value of income. The worst in debt and twin deficits. The worst in unemployment. Worst in the fires. Of the worst in the pandemic. But you're going through who made the least of the mistakes. So since they are responsible for the Eye, gentlemen of the New Democracy - I hear the Prime Minister, he said it to him about the Eye - why did you refuse to conduct an inquiry committee on the Eye to find the guilty, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Why did the Prime Minister refuse? We have asked for a committee of inquiry and refused to do so. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Stop playing fake games to rally your party audience. Greece of inequalities, Greece of Kolonakis, Greece of interlocutory, a state of abortion, corrupt, hydrocephalus. He said yesterday and Mr Stylianides here: 'I didn't know there was such a state in the world.' That's what your Minister said. Yesterday the Minister here, Mr. Stylianides,'spit on you all'. He didn't know - he said there was such a state. And "spit" refers to the whole state that you and you have been building forty-five years. You all had to resign today. That's what your Minister said. I'll tell you straight away. I agree with your Minister. Why did you not make a state, because you are not able to make a state, because you cannot make a state. Why are you looking at the next election and not the next generations? That's our difference. We first look at the next generations and not the next elections. And you want proof? Attica, the first region with GDP per capita at EUR 22,000. All other regions are bleeding, mortal. ELSTAT says so, not Velopoulos. You failed. You all failed, everyone was to blame. Get out of here and sanctify the place at last. Get out of here! Get out of here! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Listen, after so many years of modernization and modernisation, what you have achieved: Greece must have East European wages, communist ones. Former communist states have better wages than Western Greece. I'm filing it in the Minutes, so you can remember it. We're all good at it. So we ask: How will you do all that you say when you lie all the time? You're lying! I blame you for the ministers lying to you! Examples: Firstly, on January 23, 2022, Stakoras says in 'OPEN': 'Yes, the citizen's income is shrinking. The family budget is to blame. I am absolutely honest." On January 23, 2022. Three days ago, on 20 January, Mr Stagioras says on another channel: 'The citizens' income available has increased.' Three days ago. Thirdly, one day before, on 19 January, Mr Stakoras says to ERT: "The deposits of citizens and the available income of citizens have been strengthened." Fourthly, on 16 January, Mr Staikoras says in the House: 'This quarter of citizens is higher'. Fifth, the Prime Minister tells Hatzinikolau: "The improvement of the income available is certified by contributions, real estate, etc." Do we live in another society? Really, but you say one day, the other. How can we believe you - very well - when Mr Staikoras himself at the "OEN" says that he has fallen and then in five other statements he says he has increased. Tell me how you doin'? There are statements. I'm not lying. I say what they say. Listen, to paraphrase Theodore Pangalo. The money you borrowed, no matter what the billions are, we're not gonna pay it, because together we don't eat it. They are eaten by your friends, by the oligarchs, by wind generators, by green growth and by green fairy tales. The Greek people won't pay for it. The Greek people must not pay them. So find a way to produce wealth. Another lie. I hear the opposition - and I listen carefully - saying'reduce VAT'. The VAT must be reduced. Who disagrees with that? The government isn't telling you the truth, though. He can't reduce the VAT. Only from the bread, Mr Stakoras said, the state's revenue is EUR 140 million per year. Just bread! There are another 7 billion of fuels. Of consumer goods another 7 billion. Where are they based? They are based on the parasitic economy, the economy that I say many times that it does not produce anything and produces only debts and credits. And because time is pushing, I want to close the national issues. I won't say about the pandemic. You want proof of your failure? Let me tell you quickly. The numbers of the deceased speak. They're talking about expensive PCR. They speak of the mayors who have fooled you with the PCR values. There are seven thousand people on the sidelines. They speak of other countries and their choices. Did you order - isn't the Minister here - to pay attention to incidents that might be displayed on the channels? Here's the Ministry's document. Are you instructing the hospitals to pay particular attention to some who may be more careful in the channels? And we're not ashamed? I'll submit the document on the Minutes. Were you calling doctors at the "Bardadeio" Hospital to come to their service even with positive self-test due to service needs? Here's the document. I'll testify for the Minutes. Take it! Third. You're stealing even a month from the sickness certificates. You're doing an alchemy. I'll testify for the Minutes and these. You're a government of alchemy, unfortunately. I can give more examples, but I will close here, Mr President. At the same time, therefore, that you protect with love and care each foreigner who comes to the country, the Greek is wronged, is having difficult times. So we are asking for elections. We, Prime Minister, are calling for elections. Not because he's a desire impossible for us. We will paraphrase a verb of Plato: "The true ruler must not look at his own interest in the party, but his own nationals and his national interest." Let the New Democracy look into it and go to elections tomorrow, to see what happens to false polls. They'll get everything they get every time they're fake. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Greek citizens are sure that when the poll time comes, they will not murder the Greeks and Greece tomorrow. For, as Abraham Lincoln said, "the vote is stronger than the ball." With the bullet you could kill your enemy. With your vote you may kill your children's future. The Greeks will not kill it and with the Greek Solution together we will resurrect our murdered Greece. You're passing the Greeks for fools. You're wrong. I will say to you in New Democracy something Dostoyevski said: "Tolerance will reach such a level, you think, that you will forbid intelligent people from making any thoughts to prevent fools from being offended." You will not forbid us to speak, you will not forbid us to differ, you will not forbid us to think. Tolerance end in New Democracy. The power of reason came, the voice of reason, the voice of the Greeks, the voice of the Greek Solution, and in the next elections we are sure that it will defeat the light in darkness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u304	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u305	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u306	Ms. Giannakopoulou, you're talking alone. Wait. You don't have the floor. I was starting to talk. You have been active this three-day day, but now we have the series of parties' leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u307	I ask why it has been mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u308	Wait. You want to talk about what Mr Velopoulos said about your resignation. I understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u309	He referred to our resignation...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u310	Let me get this over with. It can't be done. No one's listening. That is why Mr Koutsoubas will be speaking after Mr Koutsoubas, who is the leader of your parliamentary group. That's what we're up to. He'll answer. Parliamentary Representatives are no longer involved. It's party leaders' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u311	But, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u312	Don't be in a hurry. It's the Chiefs' time. You don't have the floor. Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, is called on for his own 15 minutes, obviously with the tolerance we have decided on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u313	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u314	Mrs Giannakopoulou, three days now every half hour you take the floor and make five-seven-minute speeches, supposedly questions. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u315	I spoke just as many times as I deserved.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u316	You have a chairman of your parliamentary group or head, as it is called.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u317	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I've been able to do it myself so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u319	Do I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u320	Of course, you have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u321	As far as the JRC is concerned, the Government of New Democracy, its policy, the reactionary state, the rotten system you are serving together with other parties are doing every day in the workplace, in the neighbourhoods, in the schools, in the schools, in the bills you bring here to the House. We did not expect today's debate in the House and SYRIZA's proposal. Modification to the Government of New Democracy was also yesterday's rally in the center of Athens, in the Constitution, calling for hundreds of labor unions, mass bodies, claiming infrastructure and measures to protect against natural disasters. There in the Constitution the Attica workers met with the mass organizations of Patras who arrived in Athens, along with the Municipal Authority and the Labour Center, fighting for the rights of the people of their city, with a hundred fair demands and claims. Moment, too, to the Government of New Democracy is the movement of workers in hospitals on the next Tuesday, which may have been exhausted, to be kneeled by our doctors, nurses, the rest of the staff, but they continue to do their duty up and insist at the same time to require mass recruitment of permanent staff, to increase state funding for the public health system, to the private sector. In other words, they demand selfishness to continue to fight pandemic, to be able to save human lives. Modification to the Government of New Democracy is the struggle of students, students, who want open schools, open their schools, with the dilution of departments, with the recruitment of missing teachers, with cleaning staff that does not exist. These are only a few examples of the last few days, which we in the JRC, like other fighters, have done what goes through our hand to multiply, so that the reproach in anti-popular politics as a whole is also a lasting, essential content. You'll understand what I mean by those you're still wondering. Three days we are now hearing from the SYRIZA MPs about the inability, mistakes, analgesia of the government, about the failure of the state of service. Yes, let's agree on everything. Except that you do not say that everything you describe is attributes to every anti-popular government that has passed from this place, nothing except your previous one. Everything you find is in the same character, in the operation of the present urban state, which has priority only for the sacrifice of the majority people's needs to satisfy the deceased capitalist profit of a very small minority. This is the bourgeois state. This was also in the days of SYRIZA and in the days of PASOK, now called KINAL. It is a heated power mechanism for their own greedy interests. We will therefore insist on highlighting the class character of this state. That's the kind of thing, and let some of them shave their faces in here. Because we will not wash the New Democracy Government out of its criminal responsibilities, as others do in here, throwing the ball into individual failures, in individual options only, acquitting the entire state that you all served and served. That is why the government finally left thousands of people at the mercy of an expected snowfall. Working unprotected, enclaved for hours on Attica Road, on other avenues, households without electricity, no heating, and no problems, which even today have not been restored. It's been a week. Mercy! It turns out every time that this state, when it comes to protecting the profits of monopolistic groups, is perfect, is speedy, capable, but when it comes to people's needs, it becomes difficult, incompetent, without planning, without coordination, without means, infrastructure, personnel. That's why you of the New Democracy have made your doctrine of individual responsibility, which, depending on the occasion, you say to the world "go to save you", such as in summer with the fires, and the other way you tell them "stay homes to save you" from the snow, from the bad weather as it is now. And don't tell us again about the great responsibilities of the Attica Road. Now did you remember the unpredictable gain of this company, Mr. Mitsotakis? Now did you discover the concession contracts? So many years you didn't know what mythical profits the company has earned from the gold tolls, what they pay every day thousands of workers to go and go back to their jobs? You know and you wonder, as we know, about the conflict of business groups for the new Attica Road Convention and its extensions, about the "private" that your Government is preparing to give once again from the most famous Recovery Fund. And don't tell us again about the compensation of EUR 2 000 that was after your own intervention. We are responding to what you already know: no compensation can buy out silence, calm down rage, hide that these tragic situations will be repeated again and again as long as civil protection does not take priority, but on the basis of the needs of the people. You have discovered, and rightly so, failures, inadequacies and lack of coordination. But how does all this happen to appear only when people's lives are protected and when you are going to protect the profits of large businesses, then everything will work 'roll'? We did not see, for example, when your government departments, your ministries, in excellent cooperation and coordination, in a few months' time they completed and submitted to the Commission the management plan of 32 billion euros for the capital from the Recovery Fund. Nor inadequacies have been identified in government staff when it was intended to prepare and bring to Parliament a vote with fast track procedures for extra privileges, tax exemptions, incentives for investment in green energy. So to the Government of New Democracy why he left the people unprotected from natural disasters from bad weather. But to the government, and why two years after the pandemic began, we are in a worse situation, with more than a hundred deaths a day. While there is now the experience and scientific knowledge to end an hour before this adventure and without other losses, you have your hawaii. No reinforcement of the public health system, no measures in the main areas of over-transmission. Modification to the government because the accuracy 'false' of the income of the people's families deprives the people's basics and basics. We reached the point today, in 2022, that the working people's family should be deprived of heating, because its cost has been detonated. How different would the situation have been if the liberalisation of energy, the liberation of energy and, of course, the various green horses of your own development had not gone ahead? How true could people's households be relieved if excises and VAT on fuel were even abolished? Modification to the New Democracy Government, for three years now it has given the energies all the opportunity to unravel out at the expense of workers with the tens of hours, the unpaid overtime and it is not assembled. Mofos, because at the same time it has strengthened and continues to strengthen the legal arsenal against racing claims, the mobilisation of workers, people and youth, such as every bourgeois government, proof that anti-popular politics goes hand in hand with authoritarianism, with repression. These laws, such as the Law on the restriction of demonstrations, the Hatzidakis law, which attempts to put trade union action "on the plaster", workers, young people are fighting to inactivate them now, to cancel them now and in practice, because they know that every day it costs. Every day without resistance is the day of patenting, legitimising this rival abortion, the attack on the workers of the country. Do you think of how many people could still have been killed at the port of 'COSCO' if the workers, immediately after the loss of their colleague, were not on strike against gods and demons, slamming your law, to impose these specific security measures at least on this point? Do you think of how many other companies after the E-FOD, implementing your law, in one night would change contracts, baptise the workers as supposedly "coworkers" and thus break every right of them? Everything they earned with their fight. None of you gave it to them. On the contrary, all of you and something of their rights were getting them back. These strikes, but also other activities at workplaces, are the greatest reproach to the Government of New Democracy and to any government that legislates or legislated against them, as the SYRIZA Government did, of course, but also before, PASOK-KINAL, which has filled out with a badge from BSE and other employers' organizations. And to be explained, the reproach of the JRC leaves no aspect, little or more of the anti-grass rule of the New Democracy. It concerns all of its facts in contrast to the SYRIZA who tabled the motion of censure with limited content. SYRIZA and other urban parties know that no matter what they do, they can't get out of this anti-popular policy candle. On the contrary, you share with New Democracy a position in the center of this cedar. Do you want, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to talk about the five years of your own governance, how did you set the ground in New Democracy to come and continue from where you stopped? Do you want to talk about the fact that two and a half years now as an Opposition at all critical times, you give it a hand to help pass any obstacles that popular indignation can create? Or is it not a helping hand in New Democracy the vote you gave her in all the critical bills? Over half the New Democracy bills as a government you have voted on. Hands of assistance to New Democracy were not "we support you now, but will we be accountable after" at the beginning of the pandemic, when the government wanted to impose implicity on the people, when the crucial thing was to put the fight to strengthen public health at the centre? Now that we're here! Hand of help was not the consensus you offered, when the fires were still burning in half Evia, to change the debate, to leave all your responsibilities and to pass on the next day, as you first said? While the crucial thing was to focus on the projects, infrastructure, project and staff in particular in the field of civil protection. When one helps one another, what's the name of these two? However, in our own language and language - we can imagine - and the Greek people, they are called allies. You're allies. And the aid you have given to the New Democracy is support for your common strategy which must be implemented at all costs. But you are using it with the opposition so-called show, - you who are doing in here, like last night's - and as a hindrance to people's questioning, so that another alternative that goes beyond you and your fellow citizens is not finally being searched for. Because this alternative exists, but it's on the side of the bank. It is in the JRC's political proposal with clarity, honesty and clarity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also reproaching you to SYRIZA for your overall attitude, because we are really looking to find a matter, a critical front not of the individual, but of the great and important, of what determines life, everyday life, the future of our people, who do not have a great deal of identification, when individual convergence between the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the KINAL. And the truth is, we can't find one. What should we talk about first? Should we talk about the critical health front, which all governments had made their flag of harmonious coexistence in the public and private sectors? And the pandemic came and scattered these in the four winds, proving that as long as there is business activity in health, the public sector will be undermined and collapsed. Say, in fact, the great amount of energy poverty when you jointly and alternately served the policy of liberating energy, depriving our country and the things that you are tampering with as a so-called green transition? And today we see the consequences of this policy, not only on the issue of accuracy but also on the aged, poorly maintained networks that collapse after natural phenomena, condemning the cold, in the dark households even a few kilometres from the center of Athens. Should we say break up any concept of civil protection for critical projects and infrastructures in anti-military, anti-nuclear, earthquake shielding? Projects and infrastructures are not planned and never implemented with any government and with any regional administration. For all of you these extremely necessary works are not attractive. And they're not attractive to you, only because in these works you can't put tolls, you can't put rafts to chew 'poor', that is, the shareholders of the various large private monopolistic companies. Should we say about jobs, which the then government of New Democracy - PASOK, on the one hand, took the minimum wage down on the night of a ministerial decision and removed from the trade unions the possibility and the right to negotiate, fight, for the General National Collective Convention? To come after the SYRIZA government that not only brought back the minimum wage to 751 euros, but adopted this disgraceful, unacceptable mechanism, according to which the Minister for Labour will be the one to decide on the minimum wage based on the profits of capital, which you all call, even without being ashamed of, 'endurances of the economy'! Should we say about the privatisations that the New Democracy government has always had as a badge and where SYRIZA has competed with it, too? Greek, airports, ports, railways and many more, the list is long. What about the result? In the privatised by SYRIZA of “TRAINOSE”, the train train train the other day with snowfall failed to reach either Oinoi! "Watch the train from the ear, don't go through Gygeli", which says the famous beautiful song of Malama. Let's go down. Can we say about the new 'early cow' of all of you, the most famous recovery fund that you voted together in the mosquitoes in the summer and which is nothing but the new memorial to our people and the other peoples of Europe? And you hide that this fund is not a money-sharing money-sharing money-sharing money, but it also condenses a whole strategy, the strategy of the so-called 'green digital transition' with warm money directed at the respective groups and peoples to load new prerequisites and new green carves this time. Or do you want to talk about the worst and most dangerous of all, especially about the involvement of Greece in dangerous US projects, whether this is about equipment, which the Greek people are paying them, in order to reap the monopolies of military weapons, which you have voted on in this House, whether that is about agreements with the United States or with France, other dangerous players? We would remind you that when the agreement with the US was launched by the SYRIZA Government at the time for the new US military bases in the country - which the New Democracy Government is now expanding and permanently permanentising - we were telling you that on a course of escalation of competition between NATO and Russia - China these bases, which are centres for the promotion of military forces mainly toward Eastern Europe for Russia, will become the target of retaliation and magnetisation risks for the Greek people. And then some of you foolishly laughed in here, until similar aggressive warnings came from Russia and a little froze the smile on your lips and you ran diplomatically to gloat things. And we say so that the Greek people will hear it now and take action to fight, so that no soldier, no soldier, no Greek media, no infrastructure on Greek soil can be used in the event of a war between the United States of America, NATO, Russia - I don't know what others - either in Ukraine or elsewhere. We warn you that you will have criminal responsibilities towards the Greek people as many governments have put your signature in such a conscious political choice. Should we remind you what else you were telling us then, both of us and the others? That these agreements supposedly shield the defence, protection, security of the country, the country's sovereign rights, as it is shielded by the EastMed pipelines, which you voted with. And "before you're singing..." the allies, the Americans, came to withdraw their support in the pipeline to "empty you" grandiosely. Because, in view of competition with Russia and China in particular, Turkey is a valuable player for the coherence of NATO's South East Wing. And since you are now more and more alike in your basic political choices, it is perfectly normal to start looking at both the nature and function of your parties. PASOK started the well-known "American" with the most famous "vote from the base", New Democracy continued it, after KINAL again, as an abstraction of democracy. Now SYRIZA imitates them. It is also another proof that it has taken final, irrevocable divorce with what may remind itself of "left", as it feels genuinely simple people of the people, fighters, people of the Left, since such a left would not have anything to do with the urban parties who see the participation of their base, people, in political developments as applauding, especially as an election decor, as a follower in social media now or as a sum of the procedures to promote leadership parties in a cathedral of "star system", Greeks! It is all about real democracy, active participation. Because the principle of one ultimately, which does not, as the basis and the people, have to speak to anyone, to any collective body, is not a democracy, it is the maximum hypocrisy. And we see that in the other parties. We'll see about it - we're seeing it already - you too. Therefore, let us also remind you of something: true democracy and participation to everyone can be given by the workers themselves in the movement, through their collective procedures, their live conventions, and so can the self-employed, by the bio-cultural farmers through their clubs, students and students in amphitheatres. There can also be loud confrontation of views, reflections and end up with the issues, forms and content of their struggle. There can be a strong sound of what the JRC says from the very beginning today, within the House and outside it: no confidence in the New Democracy Government, which does not account for anything, nor for your life, in the face of the profits of the capitalists, who condemns us to poverty, to misery, to the work of "sun with the sun", which puts obstacles to the education of our children, to a school and to a university that works for businessmen, and that is why it also needs the police, which is involved in the plans of its armed allies. Today, however, as strong as "no trust in the New Democracy" can and must be heard and the "no anticipation by SYRIZA", which wants to be re-appointed in the position of the Caliph to do the same, with perhaps a different management model. This work has been carried out by our people over and over again for many years. New Democracy, PASOK, then PASOK, again New Democracy, together, after SYRIZA, then again New Democracy and goes by saying the rotation of the same or similar anti-population policies. Now you of the SYRIZA are talking about political change and Tsipras has put the shrine of the savior again, as if the people could forget their great responsibilities, both of themselves and of your party. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, today the people more than ever need political change, but not what you say, which changes managers in the same anti-popular building, which is rotten from the foundations. We need the political change that will tear down the old and the rotten to build the new, the new one with the people themselves. The Greek people are now tired of saviors, they don't need other saviors, especially star saviors! The slogan of the JRC "only the people can save the people" is not just a slogan born in the battle, in solidarity, in which all their powers are given by the members, friends, fighters who are consistent with the JRC. As demonstrated in the battle for fire protection in Evia and elsewhere, as it proved to be the difficult hours of abandonment on Attica Road snow, where again first, before the final state appeared, the army, walking miles into the snow - which also to these children, of course, is worthwhile for what they did - the members of the JRC and the JRC were, from the party organisations of the neighbouring municipalities of Attica, who were sharing what they could at that time at night, food, biscuits, chocolates, bottles with water, and gave them to those who were trapped, or on the coaches, on the buses transported from eastern Attica workplaces, spinning from their jobs, or in their cars. "Only the people can save the people" is a place that highlights the prospect of living on the basis of the enormous potential of science and technology in today's era. Only the people can save the people, building their own state, the state of workers, the people, for their own needs, against today's barbarism that erupts from everywhere. As long as it goes through your mind that these two simple words "the people can save the people, on the path of overthrowing, with your staff so much sympathy with the JRC, your media will dig up all that anti-communist carpet, as you do these days, where you discovered supposedly unveiling, unfaithful documents, as you say, that the JRC, of course, has given publicity for many years, apart from being known that with such impatients, in essence, charges were executed, imprisoned, exiled, tortured, tortured thousands of fighters from 1944 to 1974 and from the post-war state, after 1949. And well, this, what's his name, the foreign historian, the historian I'm forgetting him, the Pope... (see Annex I) Radchenko.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u322	We'll write him in the Minutes right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u323	We're getting past it. We're gonna put him right, yeah, Ranchenko. However, domestic professional journalists and "ESTIA" and "DIMOCRATIA" and other websites of social media, did not know, did they not ask? Now, it's my fault if I say, where did you get those fluffs? In fact, one of these figurines, the well-known anti-communist Maranzidis, who careered with his hatred for the AMM, for the Democratic Army, is now randomly writing both "AYI" and "Kathimerini".
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u324	Lucky?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u325	Rejoice him, gentlemen of SYRIZA! I am not talking now about the various fascists, etc., which you will all have unleashed, circulating, but only in the well-being, is supposed to have approved urban newspapers. So much has been written about all these dreadful documentaries, the newspaper of the KKE, "RIZOPASTIS" and they are also found in the sedentary history essay of the Central Committee of the KEI. We recommend that you buy it from the Modern Age, after reading the article "RIZOPASTI" today, which I present to you in the Minutes of the Parliament, so that the Members of the Greek Parliament will consider it. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one more word. Do not cause too much, because if we open our mouths for an hour, with names and addresses for both the 1940s and for the entire period after, the post-election state, uh, this conversation will not make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate will end and every scoundrel will go to his counter. But for us, it's not over. After all, we did, so I kind of started my intervention today. All Members of the JRC Parliamentary Group have said so. The struggle continues in the workplaces, in the neighborhoods, in cities, in villages, in schools, in schools, in order for the New Democracy Government and other parties, who are bearers of the same policy, the rotten overall system, the true reproach and condemnation of workers, the people, the youth. This true reproach and condemnation can become a force of resistance, of overthrow. This reproach you fear and from it you will not escape. Don't move your head. As the time brings, time does not bring them all, our people say. And he's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Before I call on Mr Katrin, Head of the Change Movement Parliament's Group, I would like to tell you that for more than an hour there will be a rapid test in the hospital. Take advantage of those you haven't done. It has become more than four hundred so far - yesterday and today - and two positive ones have been found. So it makes sense to do all this because it prevents many problems. The MPs' rapid test except one was negative, so the presence can be widened. We are continuing the debate with the reverse series of political leaders. Mr. Michael Katrinis, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is called at Step for his own intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, before I begin my position, I wish Mrs Giannakou wholeheartedly to wish Mrs Marietta Giannakou a difficult battle and we are all sure - I am sure that I am interpreting everyone's feelings - once again that she will come out as a winner, as we are used to in all the previous battles she has fought and succeeded in giving us an example of life. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the dynamics of the Change Movement in the political and social spheres are distinct and given. It captures the will of a new, dynamic and social current that is now formed and evolved, looking for another option. A current that does not want to be caught in the dilemma 'New Democracy or SYRIZA'. Because, alas, if, having experienced the rule of SYRIZA-ANEL or the government of Mr Mitsotakis, the only option that this country would have had was to be a New Republic or a SYRIZA! It seems, however, that this dynamic is causing stress, insecurity, fear in both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and manifests itself in every appropriate way, such as almost identical announcements, aggressive, about the political attitude of the Change Movement in this parliamentary process. Of course, in this aggression, I can interpret Mr Velopoulos' intent, who has so far been accustomed to being the government's aid in difficult legislative procedures. From today he launches a new role: He is a mercenary of the government and any strategic issue he chooses to attack the Change Movement and Nikos Androullakis. But we're still at the beginning. Soon the Change Movement will begin to unfold its planning positions and commitments and, most importantly, to open up even more to society. No matter how scared some are, they won't avoid it. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] However, it is surprising that the reaction of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA to the dynamics and the rise of the Change Movement is blocked. One believes that it expresses and has taken over the center's site. In his own perception, obviously, the Centre can be identified with extreme elements and behaviours, with neoconservative behaviour, namely those that dominate New Democracy's policy today and which have nothing to do with the area of the democratic progressive party expressed by the Change Movement. The other feels that he is the new owner of the democratic party, but having in his political record the closest, the absolute sympathy with Mr Kammenos. But his policy, which is always entangled in populism, polarization and division, has nothing to do with real, progressive policies. Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, who are certainly not in this Chamber, the horizon of this country is much wider than the suffocating framework that you - both of you - want to limit. There are forces in this country, creative forces within society that can succeed where you two failed. Because Greece doesn't belong to you. It belongs to every Greek, belongs to the new generation that comes. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Change Movement is clear and clear. He will vote in favour of the motion of censure. This clear position, of course, disturbs those who see the Change Movement as a convenient government partner, because they are first and foremost disturbed by our strategic and non-negotiable choice of autonomous course. Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras, you should make this decision that the Change Movement is not offered for a convenient government partner. He won't play in your games. Today's obscured and failed political scene of one and a half party, with the New Democracy on the one hand and an anemic opposition that has improved on the other, will more and more remind the image of the past and will be overturned by the vote in the Change Movement, by the regeneration of a new, great democratic party. From that point on, the government will take a vote of confidence in the House, since it has a parliamentary majority. Governments, however, lose the confidence of citizens in society. And when they lose it, it must be won by someone who will present a credible programme proposal. And to date, despite the fact that the government is constantly losing the confidence of its citizens, the Civic Opposition has failed to gain this confidence of its citizens, to highlight the major mistakes and weaknesses of this government, to make real opposition, to build a new and strong relationship with the citizens. You failed, SYRIZA's gentlemen, for two and a half years as Opposition. And now is our time, the time to fight and to succeed where you failed, in order to obtain a democratic and creative way out for the Greek people. Because the elections - and you know that very well - will be enforced by the dynamics of society, by what they cannot or do that no one can understand. We would have every reason to want elections next Sunday. But let someone go to the world tell him we have to run an election with eighteen thousand cases, with more than a hundred dead a day, with five thousand nurses and 80 percent IF bed coverage. What elections will these be, ladies and gentlemen? With what freedoms? With what and how many restrictions? Is that what people want? Hybrid elections in which citizens will not be able to participate? And let me turn to SYRIZA's colleagues, because they are a little bit too much looking at the Change Movement for his political attitude in this process. You are talking about the internal elections of the Change Movement. You know very well that these were published in another epidemiological period. And, of course, you know very well that these elections were deeply marked by the inconvenience and tragic loss of our President, the Fofi Gennamas, which has forced developments. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Also, let me read the passage from a statement to you. "Now our thoughts are to those in the field who give the battle and the thousands of fellow citizens who are tested. We will not ask for elections as long as the health situation is what it is. To say that the world will be summarised in an election process is irresponsible." What was the health situation when this statement was made? Three thousand sixty-five cases, nineteen thousand five hundred eighty-four cases yesterday. Twenty deaths then, seventy-eight yesterday. Two hundred forty men then, five hundred eighty-three yesterday. When was that statement, ladies and gentlemen? On August 12, 2021, a few days after the catastrophic fires of August and today we are a few days after the snow has spread. Who was making this statement? You want to know? Mr. Nasos Iliopoulou, spokesman for the SYRIZA press and your choice to get the municipal authority of the country's capital. He made this statement on 12 August 1921 with these epidemiological evidence and I submit to the Minutes and the statement and the relevant information. [[At this point, the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Gentlemen of the Officerate, you may not want to listen to the health workers, even your resignation, but listen to at least the young people, not necessarily within the SYRIZA, but the young people, who have a new conception of politics, because they seem to think differently from you. We definitely think differently from you. In the final analysis, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement will not imitate Mr Mitsotakis who has been calling for elections for three years, nor will Mr Tsipras asking for elections every week in an old-fashioned practice that is definitely part of the past. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has failed. They are all aware of that now. Characteristic field of failure and failure is the economy. And I am glad to see the Minister of Finance being in the debate, because especially in the field of the economy, the time of the elections and the result will be judged. And you know that very well, gentlemen of the government. The Minister of Finance spoke the day before the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of Thessaloniki about the great image of the Greek economy, which, he said, is positive. But let's see the big picture to see if and how positive it is. The public debt is still the highest in the Eurozone, while the primary deficit was artificially held down below 7%, as expenditure was reduced by more than a billion euros. The trade deficit doubled over a year, the current account deficit doubled in November, and the stock balance deficit was launched at 22.8 billion in 2021. Does that remind you of anything? Yes, if you look at the situation of the Greek economy in the period of governance of the New Democracy in 2008 - 2009. The real private debt, the largest bomb on the foundations of the Greek economy, is about to reach 300 billion euros. New dues reached 5,64 billion in the year that passed, with more than 4 million debt-based VAT debts. Over a million is cumulatively the'red' loans corresponding to 100 billion, with the new'red' loans reaching 11 billion euros in the pandemic. You will tell me nicely the quote, but the government has taken care of it. He has made political decisions to facilitate the debtors in return. But let's see what happens in practice. Thirty - six - seventy - two dose adjustments for the pandemic's debts. Eight hundred twenty thousand businesses and households owe. How many of them have been put into regulation, ladies and gentlemen, of the thirty-six instalments? Less than fifty thousand. We proposed a hundred and twenty doses of motivation for those who observe the arrangement. No emotion, no response. You have, in fact, given an extension for a month, since only 6% of all those in charge have been in charge, at the same time when the cigarettes are falling, the situation on the market is deteriorating, the accuracy and the cost of energy and the funds are pressing, so it is doubtless how many will be able to comply with this regulation. Second political initiative of the Government, out-of-court settlement mechanism for all debts, banks, tax, insurance funds, funds and everywhere. Cumulative solution brought by Mr Mitsotakis' government two years ago and was implemented eight months ago. The Prime Minister is not here to ask him, but if he was here, I would ask him if he knows how many arrangements have been made in the extrajudicial mechanism that is in operation for eight months. How many, ladies and gentlemen? Fifteen. Fifteen arrangements have been agreed for eight months, when the'red' loans are over a million and over four million are the citizens they owe. The SYRIZA extrajudicial mechanism has failed, of course. Both under the bar. But under the bar SYRIZA-ANEL and New Democracy, the first home to be protected. The SYRIZA platform has provided a total of two thousand housing protection arrangements, while the property operator of the New Democracy, which will start in 2023, is not expected to cover more than five thousand vulnerable borrowers. All this at the time that over ten thousand auctions have been scheduled this year with seven out of ten main homes worth less than 100,000 euros. The first residence only the PASOK government in 2010 protected it by the law on highly indebted households in the hardest period for the country. Law that not only did SYRIZA vote at that time, but also abolished it, while we had emerged from the memorials and from 2019 until today, he has never called for the reintroduction of the law of Katseli, the law of PASOK, with all the legislative arrangements he has proposed. I'm tabling them in the Minutes, to see who's in this Chamber being hypocritical and who's telling the truth. The protection of first residence, of course, was definitively abolished by the Government of New Democracy. [[At this point, the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But that's not just the big picture. It is not just that private investment decreased in the third quarter of 2021 as against 2020, when in the direct foreign investment we were at 0,7 of the European Union, twenty-thirds, when the bulk of the investments concerned ‘red’ loans, real estate and financial services. Are these the investments that New Democracy dreams of for the country? So that's not the big picture. It's the real picture. The real picture is, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that your Government has failed. You failed to protect the citizens. Your ultimate state failed on the ground, since it was nothing more than a communal wreaking bubble. He failed in "Medea". He failed in the fires of summer. He failed in the last bad weather. And the Prime Minister simply confined himself to an apology when he himself in Peristeri, at a pre-session conference in New Democracy, said that "we are unforgivable if we do not take measures on fires, earthquakes and floods". He said only one apologies for an issue that lost responsibility and, ladies and gentlemen, along with responsibility, the alibi was lost. The government, of course, does not want to share responsibility where they should be attributed. But it wants to share EUR 2 000 and EUR 1,000 in the belief that it will alleviate the reactions in this way. But there is no worse way to underestimate not only the intelligence but also the dignity of citizens. Two thousand euros, therefore, for those who experienced the nightmare excluded from Attica, the best, is supposed to have a highway in the country, which has enormous responsibility for the suffering of citizens. Two thousand euros and over two thousand lies and denials and no euros, no apologies, no real responsibility for the thousands of citizens caught in the main streets of Athens. Because it is a government and a Prime Minister who proves to be inferior to the circumstances. As under the circumstances is the provocative statement which indirectly blamed the meteorologists. We were reminded of the incident with the Chiodra study of the intensive one, which, in the end, no one in the government knew about it, no one saw it, no one received it. The government prior to the advent of bad weather assured three things: that the streets would not close, that there would be no interruption in electricity supply, that telematics would work in closed schools. Zero at three. This is the performance of Mr Mitsotakis' government. Ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago we again had extreme weather in Attica. We all remember what happened. One year later, not only did the reactionary and preparation of the state and government staff mechanism improve, but we lived worse. However, the inadequacy shown by all citizens in the Lefkanoped area also fell apart from two myths. The first was the myth of government's management adequacy and preparedness. Now, everyone, but everyone, has realised that this government is just as inadequate as the previous one in terms of managing and dealing with weather or natural disasters. The second myth that was devastated is the myth of the perfect state. In fact, it does not exist and there was no final state. It proved to be a perfect chaos, as our President Nikos Androylakis rightly pointed out. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, there were self-evident things that had to be done, and unfortunately you did not. The government, however, seems to have learned no lessons. The Prime Minister, in fact, last night in this Chamber declared features - I read the quote: 'We have the possibility of having at our disposal EUR 1.7 billion, so that we can be more prepared if we are sure that we will be faced not only with extreme weather phenomena, which come from the effects of climate change, but also from the fact - you have heard this, it is important, Mr Stylianides - that we are a seismic country and from the point of view, we will be called after all certain in the future to face some major earthquakes'. Mr Mitsotakis said that in less than twenty-four hours ago, without apparently knowing that the Anti-Semitism Agency has been headless for four months! It has no administration, all its actions have been suspended and its transfer to the Ministry of Civil Protection has not been implemented. He said this without knowing that on 24 January, on the day of the ski trip which the state swept through and suffering from Attica, the Agency's period of service has officially ended, and now we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, it is literally in the air. And if a powerful earthquake occurs, the country is undisturbed and you will look for new excuses and you will be looking for who again you will transfer responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, when a state cannot keep the streets of the capital open when it cannot ensure the functioning of critical infrastructures, when it cannot guarantee the citizen that it will be safe within and outside of this, the relationship of trust with the citizen is compromised. But it shakes, unrealisticly, and when the citizen sees that some are trying to transfer their responsibilities to him or take him out with a thousand and a grand. The Change Movement considers it necessary to change the current failed civil protection model by upgrading the Firehouse, since its coordinating centre is the only one that operates effectively at the four levels of civil protection. With resilience objectives, the roads, airports and energy networks will operate in any case. By setting up specific civil protection plans for earthquakes, fires, natural phenomena based on European experience and concentration of competences in a single structure, in a single centre, without overlapping. These are our proposals. Let others do so, because they were both judged in dealing with similar situations and phenomena, and both failed. Of course, the New Democracy Government has failed in the murderous fires, not to mention the impossibility of the government to blame the'strong wind', but to pay tribute to the dozens of victims of that unscrupulous tragedy, with the most flagrant nature of Ithanasia Carda, the mother who with four children in the arms, has waited for the certain death in Artemis, because no one has prevented and repressively rescued it. Mr. Mitsotakis, you failed. You failed to manage the pandemic. That's why you did and abandoned the proclamations, self- admiration, triumphs, assurances about the end of the pandemic, which conveyed an unacceptable message of relaxation. Then we all know it, and above all, the aftermath, the reality, the Greek citizens live, with more than twenty-three thousand dead and the fourth worst place in the world in confirmed deaths over the last two weeks. I also submit the relevant information from ourworldindata.org for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned information, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The government chose instead to take timely measures so as not to escape the situation, as it was proclaiming, to take a break and to measure political costs. He chose to cultivate reassurance. Do not take effective measures to extend mandatory vaccinations. Do not even monitor the implementation of the measures which she had announced. When the pandemic got away, what did he do? What do you think? She transferred her responsibilities to the others, to the citizens. So you have failed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you have not supported the health system, as you should, you have not recognized the sacrifices and anguish of the health workers who have been struggling for two years. You have failed because you have marginalized scientists and replaced them with ministers who are still present in the public debate today. You have failed because you left the citizens a predicament for the tests and you have reluctantly moved on imposing valuation only after the general outcry. We have often tabled our proposals, and we have also taken initiatives to strengthen and support vaccination. We asked you to strengthen the national health system, which you did not believe, but you had to do so. It is a system that has been first converted into a hospitalisation system exclusively for patients with COVID. We have asked you to strengthen primary health care, to join the fight against COVID and to multiply the free test points for citizens. We asked you to speed up the vaccinations in vulnerable groups and children. We have also tabled many other proposals which you have not heard and some others have been implemented with a delay. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's list of failures includes weakness and its reluctance to deal with accuracy. Her choices leave unprotected not only the economically weaker, not only the low-paid, the low-paid and the unemployed, but the entire middle-class of the country. The government, having not properly appreciated the situation by speaking mercifully of a temporary phenomenon, attempts to hide behind the international wave of energy appreciations to hide - it thinks it can hide - its own famine and the greater intensity of the consequences for the country. Wait for the market to be self-regulation to solve the problem and be consistent with total payments, when you certainly do not assure us of the end of accuracy, as with the same ease you assured us about the end of the pandemic. But what is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government is trying beyond what we see, beyond the painful reality experienced by the citizens living in that country, to convince us that there is another picture. The Minister for Development, after falling out on his estimates that accuracy would last until Christmas, then questioned that there is precision on the market on the grounds that he is going to the supermarket, Mr Stakoura, and the citizens are asking him to take a selfie. I challenge you, in the good sense, next week to go to a supermarket to see how many selfie people will ask you. Prime Minister, although you are absent from the Chamber, if you have not realised it, the constant appreciation of basic food and living and the deadlock leading thousands of citizens and thousands of families, Mr Mitsotakis, who have just arrived, is the raw material for social unrest and destabilisation. We're talking about evidence. At the festivals there was a loss of 20% compared to last year's cigarette, with one in two products sold on offer or promotional discount, while the Christmas table was increased by 5%. New year's forecasts show up to 20% increases in dozens of widely consumed products. At the moment, one in three households find it very difficult to meet their basic needs and are on the verge of poverty. The loss of minimum wage purchasing power reached 10.4% according to the Institute of Labour of GSEU, while more than 10% of the loss of purchasing power of a household with an income of 1,000 euros per month. The consumer price index in December has recorded the highest performance since 2011, while the inflation that moved close to 5.1%, according to safe estimates, Mr. Stagira, will exceed the levels that were before the country enters the euro area in the next period. This is your success! But the vague question is one: how can people with a salary of EUR 600 per month and pensioners with a pension of EUR 400 and 500 stand up against this wave of dishonesty? It's a rhetoric. They can't. In all this, we must also take account of the increase in the cost of energy with the Commission itself - not the Change Movement - to provide that it will remain high in the next two to three years. The Government, of course, has chosen to leave private energy providers independently in order to automatically move without transparency, but also with cynical increases in consumers. From there on, you have to deal with the price rises, especially in basic food and living products. The Minister for Finance refused to reduce VAT on basic goods, where our country has 13% VAT, when other European countries on the same products have VAT of 4% to 7%, and while there are already requests from other countries to reduce the already lower VAT rates on basic goods. Of course, it is well known that the government avoids taking initiatives on matters relating to the European Union at such a level. It has not tabled a single proposal in the great debate that has opened in Europe for the revision of the Financial Stability Pact, which is a matter of survival not only for the Greek economy but also for the country itself. He also refrained from making substantial checks to deal with the scourge of speculation throughout this period. I am presenting to the Minutes fifty-five press releases from the Ministry of Development from 28 June to the day that they control illegal trade. [[At this point, the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] DOMEA, the competent department, Prime Minister, controls the pandemic's measures. There's not even a press release that the Ministry of Development found stubbornness on the market and imposed a fine. Obviously or there is no outrage in the market, and everything is normal or the ministry's service is not doing its job well. The government has avoided actually supporting farmers by measures to stimulate their liquidity to cope with the very large increases in production costs that will cause them to leave their crops. As I said before, we are making proposals and they are proposals that result from dialogue with the citizens, the productive classes, the professional and social bodies. They are proposals that include: Immediate increase of the minimum wage to EUR 751 and then set by the social partners themselves by means of free collective bargaining. Reduction of VAT to 6% for certain basic goods for at least the next critical period. Reduction of excise duty on fuels for the same time. Reduction of the non-wage costs of enterprises for at least 2022 to absorb part of the increases in energy costs and wage costs without a major issue, not for their competitiveness but for their survival. And, of course, decent under-pensions for low-pensioners to the post of the ESS that was abolished by SYRIZA. Prime Minister, you have failed to shape the conditions for a new development and productive model for the country. Your plan to make use of the Recovery Fund has nothing to do with the country's productive reconstruction but is a post-practical one, as it is based on increased imports of materials and goods, as recorded in both budgets over the last two years. There is no provision for strengthening domestic production, support for Greek industry and craft industry with priority for strengthening modern competitive outward-looking enterprises. It is a project, ladies and gentlemen, which is not about the many, not even the few. It's a plan that's for few. You are attempting, gentlemen of the government, a violent transformation of the structure of the Greek economy, in which there will be no small and medium-sized enterprises that are excluded from any liquidity provision, with few investments for research, innovation and extroversion. It is a complete deficit for the sustainable shift of the agri-food sector, since the government has abandoned farmers and farmers, when in Europe they are preparing for rapid changes in the common agricultural policy. Moreover, there are no realistic and effective policies to address the problem of the demographic ageing of the Greek population with the birth rate sticking to 1.3, while the stabilization of the population requires the level to move to 2.1. But tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, it is also linked to the strengthening of Greece in a changing world, to tackling the existing Turkish threat, because Turkey is clearly acting as a reformist force. The response to this threat does not only go through strengthening our deterrent power, nor the defence capacity of the Armed Forces. It also passes through the strengthening of the Greek Defence Industry. This means that any supply of a weapon system must be combined with an agreement that will grant a significant part of the construction work to the domestic defence industry. But it also goes through an active foreign policy, which is not and should not be considered as a given policy. It passes through an unscrupulous national line and a position that confirms that we have a unique dispute with Turkey is the delimitation of the continental shelf and the EEZ according to the rules of international law, a national line drawn up and followed by Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou. It must be made clear to friends and allies that tolerance and indirect or direct reinforcement of Turkish aggression will have an impact on them, because Greece is a strength of stability in the Western security system. Let them recognize this and respect it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is here. Mr. Mitsotakis won't play alone anymore. The dynamic we've developed is just the beginning. The big economic and social problems of the country, the new development model for the country and the citizens, defence and foreign policy, the challenges of the future and the development of a progressive reform plan are issues that the Change Movement will highlight in the next period. We are voting in favour of the motion of censure with a sense of responsibility and consistency towards the Greek people. We say, however, not in micro-groups of impressions that serve opportunityal strategies and we open up a great and sincere dialogue with the Greek people. We are going to society to gain the confidence of the citizens in positive terms and arguments, with a programme and credibility, with new, clean and bright persons, because Greece needs a plan of reform that is leading the productive forces of this place, a plan for the citizens, but with the citizens, a plan for Greece and for the Greeks, a plan that can be inspired, designed and implemented only by the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u328	Immediately after Mr Katrin, Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u329	Before I begin, Mr President, I should like to express my sincere wishes for rapid recovery to Mrs Giannakou, who is going through an adventure, and we all hope that she will soon be with us again. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that three days of discussion have shown how rightly the waves of rage and indignation that run the Greek society are. You failed, gentlemen of the government. You have failed at huge cost to the Greek people, the cost of social, economic, human, but you are acting as if you yourself believed the propaganda you are building, as if you were elsewhere. This propaganda you're building for the viewers, the public, but eventually it seems that you're the only ones who consume it. Televisioners - apparently - and citizens are all now immune. One can understand it at first glance, since no TV station can report without closing microphones from passers. Citizens have been immune to propaganda, but you have been addicted. Addiction in lying and distorting the truth. Do you really feel like I'm wondering, listening to you all after the other MPs of the Couple to come to this step, or are you the victims of this propaganda and first you, Mr. Mitsotakis, locked in a protective glass of the alcohols of calamity and the populaces of joy? Because when, Mr Mitsotakis, a politician, how much rather a Prime Minister, becomes a joke, a subject of sarcasm and sarcasm, then this politician has already finished and simply does not know it yet. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So it's time for someone to let you know. Time to let you know someone who wants to do your good for what really happens to Greek society. Mr. Mitsotakis, you're done politically. The worst thing, however, is that you live in your own parallel universe, in an organic "1984", where everything goes well because they appear well from the dominant information. And you have finished not only because you have failed, with huge human economic and social costs, almost all the criticals you have managed in the pandemic, in the fires, in fact, in the last snow, which brings the signature of your definitive policy of bankruptcy, but mainly because, at the time you have been ruthlessly failing at all, you continue the same violin of a disgraceful communication. At the time you fail, you continue provokely to believe that you are not a Prime Minister elected to be accountable, but behave as a prince whose authority belongs to him as an inherited right and do not care if the people suffer. Only you build your own regime with the money of Greek taxpayers in direct assignments, to speculators, to Golden Boys and people of the night, while a vast majority of Greek households do not have to make a month. That's the reality today. You have failed, but you have no desire to understand your mistakes, to change something in your policy, in your practices. Nothing. So, yesterday, once again, after a dramatic, once again adventure for thousands of fellow citizens, and instead of apologizing to the citizens who have been unjustly apologized, instead of apologising to the Greek people because one of your main promises was that you will make a perfect state and have made a perfect chaos - when there is a fire with two boars, half of Greece is burning and when it rains, we flood and when it snows predicted, the main arteries of the capital are closed - and instead of saying "we have failed", you had the nerve to move our fingers again. Once again, as your shield, the tragedy in Matty. The Eye, Prime Minister, was and remains a collective trauma, which requires respect, modesty and not micro-group games, which you constantly do to hide your own responsibilities. [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where was the truth the day before yesterday that counselor you took to the channels, Mr. Colakis, to give you his plan to evacuate Attica and Marathon and Katechaki and the Mediterranean in twenty-five minutes and not in twenty-five hours? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where was your knowledge and your technocratic adequacy? Everything was buried in the snow, as it was drowned in the floods, burned in the fires with two booths. This notorious “ 112” where was it when people were staying in the cold, waterless, without food for 30 hours and had no information from anywhere? Where was it to send them a message for instructions, for what they have to do, how will they survive for hours in the cold and cold? And where was the state all these hours? Even the Army intervened quickly and without a plan. On Tuesday morning, while soldiers were attempting to disembark vehicles and drivers, they were commanded to leave what they do and gather at the exit of 10 of Attica Road, where the television crews were assembled to get the footage crews! All about communication! Shame on you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But of course you told us that you were apologizing, even though all of us understood that you told us that everyone else was to blame. It's the snow that fell at noon while it usually drops night, and it surprised you. What do we do, since snow usually falls at night, doesn't drop at noon? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's the National Meteorological Service that didn't inform you. He informed all the Greek people except you. It's the mayors and the districtlors. But they're yours too. It's the private concessionaires and the train company. It's because Katechaki and the Mediterranean are not in Greek territory, it's in another country. It's all the others' fault. And you tell us - to convince us that it is the fault of others - that you have even held critical meetings, without holding any minutes. Finally, it seems that the only one who kept practically on that government was Mr. Furthytis. No one else keeps practical! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I forgot, you told us an apology and "cleaned". How does our people say so? "Since the apology has been found, the honor is lost."
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u330	Please, be quiet. You don't sound or write these.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u331	But, Mr Mitsotakis, you will not 'clean' like this easily. I fear that an apology is not enough to 'clean'. It's not enough an apology, because you owe thousands of apologies. You owe twenty - three thousand, seventy - five apologies to every family who lost its people in the pandemic and there are thousands of these families who have lost their man unjustly. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why did you decide not to strengthen the ESS, at the same time as your advisers, Mr. Tsiodras, Mr. Lytras, told you that you had to strengthen them and if you strengthened the ESS, half of them today would have been saved. And you were coming to this Step without shame, telling us that you have no study and that it is the same thing that someone should enjoy care in intensive care beds and the same being intubated handshakes outside the intensive care units. You need an apology to any doctor and nurse, who is late at three and four consecutive shifts, in the struggle to save lives and sees these lives being lost by his hands, because you, in your disobedience for everything public, for everything social, left them alone and abandoned, without the weapons that would help them to defeat death. You owe a big apologies, Mr Mitsotakis, to every family who is afraid tomorrow and sees the salary ending in the middle of the month and is unleashing in winter, because you have encouraged and facilitated speculators to impose a capital tax on the social majority, with the price ejection into main types of consumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u332	Quiet! There's nothing coming out that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u333	You owe an apology to all Greek women and all Greeks, because you, personally, played with their patriotism. You took advantage of their love for Greece and for Macedonia and fooled them in the most vulgar way, to win a few votes while you knew what the right thing was. And you came to this step and said that we were selling Macedonia for pensions. It's a disgrace to you and you owe an apology to all those who cheated. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You owe an apology, finally - at least three apologies - to the families of those who were lost in Matti and to all shocked by that humanitarian disaster, because you personally made your lost lives an electoral ladder to climb the government... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and you continue to do the same while you knew - you confessed to it later - how and why, and how very little time, this unscrupulous tragedy took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u334	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u335	You owe all these apologies, as you owe to stand to the height of circumstances, to give way to today’s deadlock. You really don't understand that you can't go any further, do you? Can't you understand that the country can't go on like this? Don't you realize that from now on you'll only have damage? Do you not understand that it has greater value for a politician to leave with dignity than to be hooked in the chair of power?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u336	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u337	Since the truth is, Mr Mitsotakis, you are so sure - and you smile - that you are overreacting and will beat us in the elections, since, as you proudly say, you are enjoying a populist monocratism, a pan-state and a collapse - so are you not saying - so why are you not choosing to redefine the popular verdict? What prevents you from holding elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u338	Please! It's not for you. Quiet, please! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u339	I understand your irritation, but you will listen to me and the Greek people will listen to me. Why don't you hurry, Mr. Mitsotakis, to prove the people's trust in your face? Here, then, is the caller. Democracy is limited, but it is not abolished by the pandemic. It turned out in America, Germany, Portugal today and elsewhere. From the democratic clearance of the elections, however, you prefer the pretext "sorry" for your latest achievements. Why? Why do the political forces enjoying the popular spring - despite the heavy winter of their choices - do not want elections, while SYRIZA - which is allegedly being destroyed - pursues them in every way? Did all these political forces go crazy, or is reality very different from the virtual reality you want to impose? And in any case, Mr Mitsotakis, I honestly ask myself, with what credibility will you continue to govern, while in front of the country there is great difficulty? With this credibility deficit, with this tragic loss of effectiveness, with this complete moral discount? Produce much more suffering, much more corruption, much more lie than our people could consume. How are you going to proceed like this? The notorious state, your personal creation and burntness, has become the object of ridicule and anger for two years, a joke and an example for avoidance. What if you guys get to summer? Will you try to patch them up again with communal terraces? And what preparation have you supposedly done from your mistakes? Where are the five hundred peasants you promised? Where are the business centers you had advertised? Where's the umbrella of anti-nuclear protection you'd be making? Where is the multi-advertised "AEYIS" program? Where are the Canaders that the Department of Civil Protection stipulates that it buys? Where are the Russian Beriffs you'd rent? Where's all this? Now you should have done all this. When are you going to do all this and with what credibility? But it wasn't just snow and destructive fires. In Crete at the moment when the earthquakes are talking, they are watching the achievements of the state of service from the containers, refreshing. In the floods that followed the fires, your final state was milking between statements and promises. Last year and this year's bad weather, thousands of houses stay out of power for days. Why can't you fix these mistakes? It's been a year. You have hired a record number to poster, you have increased their earnings to 70%, you have created and advertised the Ministry of Climate Crisis, but it is empty, without content, you have appointed technocrats to higher and ministerial positions, advertising excellence, which would make the perfect state model. And what's the result? Communication and communication again. That's all. An extreme and dangerous personal and political narcissism, which characterises every move of yours, to finally lead the country to tragedies and your final state to the complete disdain, trained not to manage crises, but to manage your failures and failures. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how can we have an effective and effective state when you have an allergy in the state itself? How can we have political and social protection when you despise anything public and only love all that private? Privatisations in health, privatizations in education, energy privatisation, infrastructure privatisation, privatisation everywhere. How do you want to have a state and a state? Greece is at the top of the European list of deaths per million and the highest places in the world from the pandemic and at the same time you are putting a padlock on the "Children's Hospital" of Penteli. You put enclosure in a hospital that treats children in the middle of a pandemic and you have no shame in promoting the invasion of speculation into public health, the closure and merging of public hospitals. You are providing a vital space for the ESS, not for its people, for the patients and citizens who have access to it, but for the speculative initiative. The world doesn't have to make this month, with the great increases in electricity, and now you, at the peak of this unprecedented energy crisis, rushed to privatise PPC and the electrical networks fully. What state, then, and what public benefit? 'The market will regulate itself', you tell us. And in order to facilitate the self-regulation of the market you deprived the country of the most powerful weapon it could have to deal with this energy crisis, the Public - carefully - Electricity Operation, not an electricity company without the "delta". And now that electricity prices, fuels and first-demand species have reached greedy heights, you remember that the wave of accuracy is an international phenomenon and you can do nothing. However, we also have prestiges there at the price of wholesale power sales. There's nothing you can do. Wait for God of profit to solve the problem, sharing some crumbs to those affected. How, then, will PPC's tariff increases be frozen when in the center of your logic is not the general interest, but the stock price on the Stock Exchange? How will it stop speculation, when your basic logic is 'do not interfere in the markets, self-regulatory'? Nor for checks interfere, leaving the households north on this immunity of cartels. You do the same with the pandemic. What state do we need to talk about? You want it to be final. You have abolished the state. If you don't want to interfere, you don't even want there to be, not to interfere. You let the PCR tests reach prices that refer to a black market in an Occupational Period. PCR tests arrived at black market prices. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] And then you put a plank twice and three times. The absolute humiliation. You put two and three times the price of the municipalities, with infinitely smaller negotiating power from the state. So what state are you talking to us about? You want it finally. If you don't believe in the state. The public hospitals two years are now falling apart and letting private people out of battle, having the right to make a choice in patients, not getting serious incidents, not filling up ICU beds, but getting gold compensation. At the same time, any poor citizen wants to have an operation, to have no choice but to give - if he has - of course to private hospitals, because the public has only been made for COVID. That's the reality today. What state are you talking about? You want it finally, you're scary. So, having proved so profitably, Novartis, you also decided to do a "NSY-Novartis". That's the new RU that you're advertising. This is your ideology or more correctly ideology, an obsolete and dangerous for the social majority ideology, especially in times of crisis: A market perception of the role of the market, a vulnerability of profit. It is a doctrine, a mission of almost religious character, to strengthen, to subsidise, to facilitate the world of wealth and to imprison by laws, by suppressing, by banning labour, working class, the wages that their claims are seen as an obstacle to uninterrupted profitability. Because you are supposed to tell us, by multiplying profits, wealth will be invested and investment will be done in jobs and good wages. And then we lived well and they did better at Voltaire's house, because in Greek households they probably don't live well in the majority of them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you insist on this fairy tale, although in practice this tale, which has been the dominant account of neoliberalism, is now being cancelled throughout the world for decades. Why? Because he ignores the social treaty, every social treaty. Because it has led to the unprecedented expansion of the gap between the rich and the poor and has broadened disparities, it has destabilised the economy and the societies. But you insist and let it be disapproved everywhere today. Because you refuse to disturb the smooth process of profitability and exploitation of many of the few. And that you know, Mr Mitsotakis, is our great and impeccable difference, the ideological difference, that you are with the interests of the few and you hate the state, and we are with the interests of many, and we believe in a powerful, effective and human state. So this is our great, irresistible difference. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Our second big difference is in the field of morality. The government of SYRIZA was the most honest and clean government that the place has ever known since post-Civilisation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We took the country out of the banquet of bankruptcy, in which you and your companions led it. Through corruption and customer relations and nepotism you charged us with the commission and the International Monetary Fund and, when we made the great effort to get the country out of the comitology, you allied openly with the owners. Have you forgotten? "Geroon, strong!" you yelled! Do You Remember? "Take your money from the Greek banks," your executives said on the channels. Do you remember that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And today that we pulled out the country and the economy safely from this bankruptcy pit, you have come and set a party worse than that of the abundance days that led us to the crisis. You shared EUR 5 billion with direct awards and closed competitions within eighteen months in the name of the pandemic! Five billion euros! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where did you split them? In amortisers, mandarins, butchers, best friends, companies that were created twenty-four hours before they took the job, mother-in-laws and couples, at an unprecedented public money distribution party. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Tens of millions of people shared in the media, without any process, without any criteria and without transparency, solely criterion the degree of obedience to your orders and the rate of copying Maximos' "non papers". The more obedient and more good replicators, the greater funding! And all of this, when at the same time in the budget that you voted on you cut off from the National Health System over 800 million, because it had to be wasted. Hours, hours, and shame with what you're doing! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The complete failure of the government, which has led to social dramas and has led to mathematical accuracy and new social tragedies, is not only the result of the endemic incompetence of the Prime Minister and his environment, but also of their invincible tendency, their invincible momentum towards resilience, nepotism and rhetoric, their appeal to be viewed as the state and their public funds and their desire to perpetuate the regime they have built up, despising their democracy, institutions, justice and citizens. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Since you're very worried today, I come to this categorical event - probably to spoil you too, but what to do? - which has no end and of course has to do with your close relationships... Good evening, Mr. Gerapetti, are you here? Good evening. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...with a "trash TV" star carrying more than thirty pending cases with justice on his back and who, on your day, became a person on prices, with twelve policemen guarding him! Watch out, with 12 cops guarding him! Professor, I will not deal with you. What can I say about the professor? It's too bad to say just a pity! That's too bad! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Too bad and embarrassment, because it's sad. It is truly sad to blackmail a Minister, right hand by the Prime Minister, by a subordinate man, on this route he has. You know, it's not just sad for the Minister! It's not sad for the government. It's sad about democracy! However, I will put my questions mainly to Mr Mitsotakis, who, if Mr Georgiadis leaves him, will hear them to answer them. Mr. Mitsotakis, are you sure who governs this country? Do you rule it or do you "Burners"? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why do you know something? This is the first time - and I say this on the grounds of knowledge, there must be no other government, at least from the Postpopulation and then, closely monitored - in the post-political history of the place where night infiltrates the Maximos Mansion. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I would like to address a number of questions to you, Mr Mitsotakis: did you know that half of your government has done services to a alleged presenter? How did he get access to 12 police guards? How did this man have such close relations with so many of your ministers and not just with the professor, but with half the Ministerial Council? How did your 'right' hand negotiate with him the legislative interventions of the government, with half the government deletion him? And I ask you directly: did you know that? Did you know, or did you ignore it? Did you know that in the days that he exchanged calls and SMS with half your government this gentleman set thirteen companies with legal representatives to behave two foreign companies from Georgia 'vitrina', without real activity, without staff statements on 'ERGAN' and without establishment in the declared seats, in order to obtain from the suspensions of a contract of employment due to the pandemic and repayable advances? Did you know that or didn't you know? Did Mr. Brutsi tell you or didn't he inform you? Because Mr. Brutsis knew well! And to his honor he tried to stop it, and he slammed himself into the ministry to terrorize him! And then, strangely enough, Brutsis left the Ministry and not Furthiotis from Maximos! Did you know that? Did you know them or didn't you know them? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If you ignore all this, Mr. Mitsotakis, I want to help you today. I want to tell you what we know, so you know them. As of December 2020, the Directorate-General for Taxation of the EPC sends a document to the Directorate for Planning and Coordination of Control to the IORP and to the IEA for an investigation into the compliance of insurance legislation for a number of companies in which the name of Furthiotis is drawn up. They are companies that are alleged to be audited as to whether they are operating legally or operating as a form of illegal economic activity. Did you know that? Of the thirteen companies alleged to be linked to Mr Furtiotis, we know that repayable advances have been credited. In eleven of them, the total amount of EUR 194,883 has been credited and an additional EUR 56,987 has been approved. Do you know them? We are talking about the total amount of EUR 250,000, money credited, according to the investigations of the Economic Police in March 2021, and then transferred to justify a loan of EUR 182,000 to EPSILON TV, the manager of which is Mr Furtiotis. The economic police investigation, as we also know, if you do not know, Mr Mitsotakis, has been completed. Question: Has it been transmitted to the Financial Prosecutor or not? Since when has it been transmitted? And why is he stalling? Could you explain this inertia?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u340	Independent is justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u341	Look out, if it's been transmitted, I'm asking. Don't rush to tell us about independent justice. We know the candy. I'm asking if it's been transmitted. These, Mr. Mitsotakis, do you know them? Professor, did you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u342	If you were from the morning, you'd know.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u343	Yes, sir. You know them. You haven't heard of them for the first time. I haven't been in the morning, Professor. I honestly didn't hear you. Could you tell us again if you knew this gentleman well or didn't you know him? Can you tell us if you are allowed to talk to him, even in the plural, and what exactly were you talking about? For the government's legislative work? And these checks? Did you know something? To what extent and for what reason? Tell me one more thing. What will the exhortation to this gentleman say: 'Don't do them a favor for cowardice'? Who are you talking about? For who? About the prosecutors who are after him? About the Brutsi he's denounced? For us who's targeting? Who did you write that for? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I am coming back to Mr Mitsotakis, because that is the issue, not to you. The questions I asked you, Mr Mitsotakis, are obviously rhetorical, because you obviously knew them all and covered them all. If that were not the case, you would have expelled your right hand from your government from the first hour. So Mr. Furtiotis doesn't have your right hand. Mr. Furthiotis has in your hand, Mr. Mitsotakis! You! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the question is why. The answer that a government that controls the vast majority of the country's media was in need of the Fourtiotis channel, all right, cannot be believed. I hope you find a more serious explanation to give your speech. Otherwise, I'm afraid that the bug to which you are now floating will soon swallow you. And that's not a good political ending for a Prime Minister. If you do not have a serious answer today to all these questions, Mr Mitsotakis, one is the choice of dignity for you. Resign and proclaim elections! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Give the Greek people the opportunity to judge you immediately, before it is too late for you, for the country and for all of us! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are on a slippery road, you are on a dead end, you have cost the Greek people and the country very expensive! That's enough! Greece, ladies and gentlemen, needs a breath of progress before you put it in the respirator. Greece needs a government of honesty, a government of democracy. He needs a government of progress. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] And no matter how many people are trying, it seems that they will not be able to escape this great dilemma, the dilemma of the elections, because only with elections and a progressive government with SYRIZA will this catapult be stopped, normality will be restored, the sense of security will be restored, the economy will re-start, by actively erasing or reducing the pandemic's debts from the first moment. Only with elections and a government progressive with a trunk of SYRIZA will the average household be effectively protected against the dentition of electricity accuracy, in the types of primary need, with a "fresh" on PPC's accounts, with a reduction in the excise duty on electricity, with a reduction in the VAT on food. You know, friends and friends of the wings of the progressive party, the whole progressive party, don't ignore this dilemma. Only with elections and a progressive government will work be freed, with the abolition from the first week of the legal arsenal against the eighth established by the Mitsotakis Government, of the paid overtime, of the right to strike. Only by election will there be an immediate increase, now, in need of the average citizen, now that accuracy is high, the basic wage at EUR 800! And this increase will go through all the payrolls! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Only by elections will the National Health System be strengthened immediately, with thousands of health recruitments, with a generous increase in staff pay and a permanentisation of all those who today give the battle with fixed-term relations. Only with elections will the funds of the Recovery Fund be released for justice. Imagine, when they've done this party so far, what about the recovery fund money? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To be distributed not to the 'logues', but to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, to the people of labour and creativity. Only by elections and progressive government will widespread corruption be replaced by justice, which will return to the country as it deserves, as it deserves this people! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled the motion of censure. That is why we tabled it, and I think it was an important step, not because I doubt what the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will do at the end of the day, which today, with all these revelations, really breaks my heart to see you only, your faces alone, your anxiety only... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] But he will vote against the reproach for a simple reason, you know. In the next election, half of the Members of the parliamentary majority will not be in this Chamber. At least half!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u344	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u345	But our initiative will also continue, because our country and our people are not worthy of this decline, and why it is literally urgent for society to breathe, to breathe and to breathe. In this fight for our exemption from the Mitsotakis regime we call on all political and social forces of progress, we call on every democrat Greek citizen, every Greek and every Greek to stand on our side. We can do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u346	The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Tsipras, your speech today, your content and style prove the obvious. You're trying to cover up your own dead ends. It was a placement full of counterproductive toxicity, permeated by many political flares. You have worked out a supreme parliamentary procedure as a board of salvation in your political triumph. You have once again resorted to destructive, polarization and landslide, with the aim of creating impressions. You failed. You failed it, too. You failed, because the citizens have perceived the panic, desperation and desperation of the SYRIZA, desperation and despair that are reflected in a post just now by Mr Tsakalotou. I sincerely want to wish him a quick recovery from the adventure of the coronary. I hope it is not a side effect of confusing it on axes, pillars, targets and results. My sincere wishes to pass on to Mrs Giannakou. I hope she'll get over this test too. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my brief position I will seek seriousness and arguments, firstly, not to overestimate or underestimate the efforts made to tackle the multiple crises of the last period. If I did, I'd help increase the risks.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u348	Please be quiet. Those who want to talk, please out of the Chamber. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u349	Secondly, I should not attempt to zero off omissions and errors. If I did, I would not help find ever better solutions and strengthen the credibility of the political system, which is at the heart of the strategy of the New Democracy Government under Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I shall dwell on the criticism that has been made of our economic activities. Although today I have not heard almost anything from Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras, at least with what you're writing in the motion of distrust, I'm sorry, but you're probably consciously trapped in a world of illusions, delusion and populism, in a world that doesn't want and cannot read the messages of the time and the data that these times have, especially in times of liquidity, uncertainty and constraints, create. You refer to your proposal to insufficient measures in the conditions of pandemic. Reality disguises you. The government has taken a total of EUR 43.8 billion, the fourth largest support package as a percentage of GDP worldwide. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These measures proved to have kept the productive fabric of the country upright, protected jobs and incomes. Proof? According to a previous study by the European Commission - and here I also give an answer to the Civic Opposition in the other parties - Greece has the third best performance in restoring the loss of income. In fact, according to the same study, it almost neutralised the loss of income of the poorest 20% of the income distribution. You call that inadequacy? I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are referring to inefficient and unscrupulous policy. Reality again disproves you, as do you, Mr Katrin. First, let's see the big picture, as you said. The economy recovers strongly, wealth grows, probably stronger than conservative estimates of the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, and its composition improves. International investment houses bind to our country, investment has the second largest increase in the Eurozone - the second largest increase in the Eurozone, Mr Katrin - exports are shaped historically high. Investments and extroverty create jobs and incomes. Secondly, household income is supported. In the nine months of 2021 - let us retain this - the citizens' available income is increased by EUR 3.5 billion compared to the corresponding nine-month period of 2019. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We do not, however, live, Mr Tsipras, as you have said, in glass towers, cut off from reality. We understand that the significant rise in inflation rocks the income available and puts pressure on family budgets. The previous increase in income, however, through the reductions in taxes and the support packages of society, reduces these inevitable pressures. Thirdly, unemployment is falling. Greece presents the best European performance within the health crisis, after having avoided two years, with government interventions being carried out, the real danger of mass locking and redundancies. Thus, today, the number of unemployed has been at the lowest level since 2010. Fourthly, the deposits of households and businesses are being strengthened. They are increased by EUR 43 billion - look at: EUR 43 billion - compared to June 2019, with 52% of the increase coming from the households. Fifthly, the economic climate indicator, market psychology - not an indicator made by the Greek Government - has been at the highest point in the past twenty-one years, above the European average. Sixthly, the credibility - I have heard from the Qualified Opposition as well - and the country's prestige is strengthened. This is reflected in the continuous votes of confidence in the economic policy pursued by international partners, market assessment houses and investors. And finally, seven, the deterrent power of our country is being strengthened. The strengthening of the economy and the building of adequate cash resources also enable us to serve this highest national priority. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, through concrete comparative quantitative evidence, the great image of the Greek economy is positive and the prospects of prosperous. Of course, we are not celebrating or reassuring. We know that at the current juncture this clearing is a satisfying picture temporarily blurred, but it does not fade, because it is based on strong foundations. At the same time, we are fully aware of the challenges we have to deal with. The economy has a sustainable debt, according to European decisions and assessments, but this is indeed particularly high. Greece showed a high primary deficit in order - and rightly enough - to create an adequate safety net for society. The country is still - the only one in Europe - under enhanced supervision and has no investment grade, and at European level monetary and fiscal policy will gradually become more restrictive. And of course there are the challenges of the green transition. In this context we are moving. We are, however, working methodically and responsibly, prudently and measured, implementing policies, to address the current situation as far as possible and the existing restrictions. And I say this because today I have listened with great ease and great irresponsibility to share billions through the country's lending. Our policies, specific policies, form part of four axes: First Axis 1, the implementation of permanent measures to support the citizens' available income, which are distinguished in three categories: Firstly, we implement tax and insurance reductions, mainly by strengthening the popular layers of society, such as the reduction of HICP, the reduction of income tax on natural and legal persons, the reduction of tax advances, the reduction of insurance contributions, the abolition of a two-year special contribution of solidarity, the extension of reduced rates of VAT to sectors of the economy. Secondly, we are implementing minimum wage increases - the first is already being implemented - and together with the reduction in insurance contributions more than 4% and will follow the second one in May. They are also made possible because high and sustainable growth is achieved and the competitiveness of the economy is improved. The overall increase in the minimum wage must be significant, but also realistic, in order to achieve at the same time the objective of further reducing unemployment. Thirdly, we are implementing employment growth policies, such as the OAS programmes for job creation, the extension of a job subsidy with full insurance contributions, the first sign for the integration of young people into the labour market. Imagine, therefore, a household, we are helping it overall, reducing permanent taxes and insurance contributions. The family worker helps him by increasing his wages and the unemployed helps him to find jobs. And we have already reduced unemployment. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Secondly, we are applying, and we will continue to do so for as long as necessary, short-term measures to deal with the energy crisis, not crumbs, Mr Tsipras - EUR 1.35 billion in 2021 and EUR 400 million in January 2022 alone - is not a crumb, even by extending the interventions, apart from households and farmers, and to businesses. We thus limit the adverse effects more than other European countries, but to be honest - and we are honest - we cannot cover the whole burden. Third Axle: We extend support measures, such as the transfer of significantly reduced payment refundable advance, the extension of the fixed costs programs, the «FYROM», the extension of temporary job suspensions, the establishment of a specific business aid programme, the extension of a time limit for subjecting debt to a favourable framework, and we support the public health system. Last year, a year ago, Mr. Tsipras said that in 2021 public health expenditure would be reduced and, ultimately, they were increased. He still doesn't know how to read the numbers correctly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in two minutes. Finally, fourth axis: We are implementing structural changes, we are digitising the state, we are making use of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the NRP. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan, "Greece 2.0", is in full progress. A hundred and three projects have already joined, with a budget of more than EUR 6 billion. We have received the highest pre-financing in Europe. We have submitted our first payment request. We've signed operational contracts, agreements with credit institutions, international institutions, to make use of the fund's loan portfolio. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for distrust of SYRIZA was the only one that succeeded in giving the government a total of one in order to highlight for three days its important, multifaceted work, which, under extremely difficult and unpredictable conditions, produces and will continue to do so with seriousness, responsibility, integrity and firmness, serving its homeland and perspective. We are consistently serving the Greek society, a society that asks all coordinate steps towards the full strengthening of the country, its decent course on the international stage and the formation of a state of responsibility, justice and efficiency. The Government of New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis works with a plan, wise and hard in this direction and brings positive, tangible results for all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u350	And we thank Mr. Stakoura. Following the Minister of Finance, in closing the three-day debate on the motion of censure, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin, on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, by expressing my sympathy to Marietta, which will also be the winner of this health test. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, you told us at the beginning of your speech that I'm done politically. I imagine that your assessment is as precise as when you said there is not a single case in the million to win elections by Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You will remember that a month and a half ago, in the budget debate, I had predicted that the next bet on Census would be to remain a second party instead of a third party in the next House. And indeed, a few weeks later, his chief seems to confirm me completely. With an awkward and unhappy proposal of distrust to the government, he practically highlights his own existential problem. Why else can this timely initiative indicate, in addition to his desperate attempt to show that his space is kept assembled, without his forces patronising other parties, as recorded in the latest surveys? And why did he now remember the elections he rejected a few months ago, if not to close inner-party wounds that opened before his conference? I, of course, have heard and I think all my colleagues today, Mr Tsipras, do what he knows to do really well, distort the truth, building a virtual reality of destruction. But you've been over it today, Mr. Tsipras. Every sentence and two lies, not one! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And indeed, I have asked my colleagues, and we will make sure that we make this announcement, that we degrade one by one, the lies you have told today in this Chamber, because you have indeed overcome the worst of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u352	Do it now from Step up!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u353	Please miss the exhortations!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u354	Of course you did not fail to attack with the well-known anger to me with personal characterisations and launch divisive slogans, setting up a set of your own: a country broken, humiliated, with its citizens about knees begging you to rule again. That's right, if you think so! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] True life, however, is elsewhere. It goes on, not without difficulty, but with a steady step and a glance ahead. There's no need for any more lies or other toxicity. I fear that those who have heard you have already shut down the television, thinking, sometimes and out loud, 'one of the same'. On the contrary, today more than ever, citizens need realistic and creative thoughts, which will help overcome difficulties, which I first recognise. Sadly, however, I have heard little of such thoughts and suggestions. Evidence at least from you that even in this particular process, even when you insist on your request for elections, you said nothing, nothing! There was not even any mention of any convincing, overall, alternative proposal. Your word was nothing but a malicious burial of blind complaints. Besides, what exactly does SYRIZA ask for? To condemn, in the midst of a pandemic, an elected government of thirty - one months of successful or less successful results in order for it to emerge and rule who? Who? The one who, for two and a half years after the 2019 elections, dared to hold a conference on the causes of his defeat? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is he - to you - who has not changed one of the leaders of the leading team who has been defeated by state in the polls? The one who calls for a new policy that has already been condemned by the Greek people as the worst experience experienced by the country since postmopulation? These are questions which, ladies and gentlemen, in themselves, give them the answer. This is certainly not the first time that the Qualified Opposition has been using parliamentary procedures, in this case the top parliamentary procedure for submitting a motion of censure, to export its internal problems. Neither has the first time - although today, as I said, you have overcome your worst self - that you have reversed words, meanings and meanings to reverse reality. You remember a saying of Shakespeare: "The truth can be used as a soft glove that is often worn and backwards." So this glove, the government lifts it up, as pretext and full of political spots and be! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And he picks up today not to answer SYRIZA, but to talk to the citizens about the real picture of the country today, but mostly about how our country might be the next day. Why, against us, we do not have the mistakes of yesterday, as much as the challenges of today and tomorrow's successes. Ladies and gentlemen, during this three-day debate there was no area of government policy for which SYRIZA did not incur us. And I think that from yesterday our ministers and the Members of Parliament have presented in detail, as part of such a debate, the governmental work that has been produced, the objectives and the election commitments that have been made, but also the difficulties encountered in trying to overcome within a short period of decades. That is why, in my own speech, I will only choose some of the chapters of our action, seeking to highlight their political substance, but also in their environment. Because it is true that all our actions have been developed in conditions of unprecedented crises, without a recent historical precedent and institutional memory of managing similar events. I am obviously referring to the worst global pandemic in the last 100 years, the secondary crisis in the energy market, likewise occurred half a century ago, the extreme weather phenomena of 'Medea' and 'Elpida' in Attica, Janus' in Carditsa, earthquakes in Samos and Crete, the 2021 heathens and the catastrophic fires that followed, the hybrid attack taken by our country in Evros in March 2020 by Turkey with the extreme work of the refugee but also the events in the Eastern Mediterranean in the same year. Lenin, who so much likes you, said there are years that absolutely nothing happens and there are weeks that last for years. These weeks last two years on our own governance. We're neither bored nor fainted. Responsibility is for the toughest. And we can say that we have tried and managed to get through so far with the least possible losses through all these storms. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These enormous exogenous challenges may have been difficult, but they have not changed the country's progress. Today Greece is diplomatically and defenceally more powerful than ever with the economy and society standing up against the rift of the coronary, with education and health being upgraded, with the state being digitized, with taxes falling and the weakest being protected. Are we satisfied? I answer immediately negative. But not because we're in the wrong direction or because we don't have a speed. But why don't we all have at all the speed that we have to. This also applies to the problems that we have encountered in the last snowstorm, especially in Attica, which must be learned. I am sorry - I am sorry that my apology has never been understood by those who have never learned it and never made it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's not for you. It is addressed to those who have suffered as a result of the operational inadequacy of a private body and the organisational weakness of the State. It is addressed to drivers who stayed on the streets in the Attica Street and also to travelers of "TRAINOSE". It is also addressed to our fellow citizens who have been deprived of the power for days. Those who, you know, are not used to such political behaviors, should learn that public self-criticism and the apologies of a Prime Minister are not a simple word. It is a political act with special weight and special importance, which must find its equivalent in specific solutions. I will not invoke my intervention to compensate those who have been caught. I think we have exhausted that in yesterday's debate. Nor will I refer to the research carried out on how the problem has spread to other central arteries. It's all on time. As for electricity, there is no doubt that thanks to the efforts of the Ministry and the TEDO, this has come back much faster than in the "Medea". But that's not good enough either. I will say it clearly, such events must not be repeated. It is also interesting that the United States and Denmark and Sweden were hit today and yesterday. Tens of thousands of Danes left, Swedes without power. I have not heard any political parties there criticising and working on a natural disaster. It is a Greek peculiarity that you are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u355	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u356	We have the courage to be able not only to recognise our mistakes, but also to move on to structural changes, creating a separate Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. At the same time, civil protection can help with major pan-Hellenic public excursions, such as the tracking of COVID cases, as well as the "Freedom" operation for vaccination, which has largely been based on the members of Civil Protection. So what leaves this negative experience behind us? The need for better coordination between the central state and local government, the more systematic and more rapid involvement of the Armed Forces in the management of similar crises, the abstracting of strict rules in the operation of concessionaires who manage key infrastructures, and of course, the better establishment of crisis management committees, with all co-operating in the same area, who will follow and act on the basis of a collection of real information, but, above all, of Ministers, on the basis of predetermined procedures. That is what we are doing in teaching and serving not on the basis of the cries of a party, who has not yet found to say a single word about the responsibility of the private company! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Once again, Mr Tsipras! Not a word. Not even one! And I repeat: What makes you defend the "Athens Routes" with such passion for your silence! Of course, you are making a motion of censure this year because Attica Street stayed open when last year's bad weather called on the government because it closed the Athens-Lamia National Road! So consistent, so reliable! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same applies to the battle with the coronary, a field in which SYRIZA again, instead of seeing the big picture, chooses to display elements of the moment only in order to show a false reality. Despite the great losses, the country is moving on European averages, with the difference that the fierceness of the Delta mutation, as we have discussed many times in this Chamber, unfortunately, has found our homeland still lacking in vaccination, especially in old ages. Today, thanks to the great efforts of the health world, but also of the state, 84% of the adults of Greeks are now armored. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If we were - and it is very sad - at this rate that we finally managed to reach, in September or October, I think we would have saved thousands of our fellow citizens. 91% of our fellow citizens over sixty are also armored. Slowly, but stablely, the cases seem to disappear, while the National Health System responds to the pressure. But we're not done with the pandemic. The fight against vaccination, on the one hand, on the other hand, must continue unreservedly. Any failures, however, do not nullify the huge work that has been done. The ICUs have more than doubled over the days of this government, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Five hundred and sixty of us you, Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis, have handed over! We're over a thousand and we've hired 12 thousand new health professionals in the system. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now antiviral drugs arrive at the home of those who are seriously ill, with the Ministry planning already the next day's hospital map, but also the upgraded primary care we so need. These are for those who see the truth soberly. I wonder if those people who said that there are no vaccines and then that they are torn apart. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder if those who took responsibility for the infections in protests can hear, asking for schools to be opened when they closed and closed when they opened! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I mean, you, who put mines on, and now you're pretending you're backing it up. We don't forget who was underestimating scientists, proposing veterinary medications for treatments!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u357	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u358	Mr Paulakis recognized, without mentioning him, himself in what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u359	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u360	I wonder if you can hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u361	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u362	...all of you who voted against compulsory vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u363	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u364	It's worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u365	Please, Mr. Polakis, finally! You can't just be inadmissible!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u366	Hang in there, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Polakis! Hold him down!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u367	Please, a little shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u368	After he opens up a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u369	Don't be so obvious about your match with him all the time. Hold him down! It's not good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u370	I with Paul, you with Furthiotis!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u371	It is worth remembering that for two years the state has supported the economy and society with EUR 43 billion. He covered pay and insurance for those who did not work, suspended debts and, above all, we kept live jobs everywhere in the country. I therefore move on to the 'economy' chapter, a front which has been methodically combined with that of health. Kouventa you did not have to say, gentlemen, that, in the health adventure, Greece will show much growth in 2021 of more than 7%, a performance of the three highest in Europe! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Kouventa you did not have to say that in the pandemic Greece has experienced the greatest decline of unemployment from any country in the European Union! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In other words, we have hit the greatest form of injustice in the middle of a pandemic. From 17.3% in 2019 it fell to 13.4%. For the first time in ten years, the workers in our country are more than four million. The most experts will obviously understand what it means to the country to climb 12 jobs in competitiveness in two years' time. The economic climate index announced yesterday by the European Commission shows the performance of the Greek economy to mark a 20-year-old record. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Exports and industry move upwards. The first ones increase by 20%. Industry's turnover increased in November by 23%. Less experts will see the importance of this when they are obviously translated into consequences for their everyday lives, to stimulate available income by 6%. In the destruction picture you are presenting, it is perhaps the best answer to the fact that the Greek deposits, the deposits of households and businesses have reached a record point in December 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Two hundred thousand new employees, fifty thousand unemployed who found work last year through the OAED programmes and another eighty thousand who will find jobs this year, but of course also with the government's decision to increase significantly for the second time the minimum wage on May 1st this year. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All that happened was neither easy nor selfish. It is about implementing permanent measures with social and development targets, and especially for our tax policy, it is adapted to provide a support network and improve the available income for the entire Greek society. ENVIRONMENT has already fallen by 22% and another reduction is due. Total household tax relief is very important. The zero tax on parental benefits has relieved hundreds of thousands of households. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course all this has been done, Mr Tsipras, by the current government. Because the previous increased all taxes on the income of natural and legal persons. Is it not, Mr Tsipras, with supplementary ENVIRONMENT by reducing tax-free payment or by increasing the advance payment for small businesses - let us remember these too - and by imposing, if you remember correctly, twenty-nine new taxes, from wine and pay-TV to nights at hotels? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are, not to be forgotten, but to be compared. Ladies and gentlemen, is this what we want? I say that no, because I know very well that the accuracy, an imported phenomenon, which affects all the economies of the world, is sawing quite a lot of what has been achieved. That is why the government has gone on to brave subsidies, which have so far reached EUR 2 billion in the electricity, household and business accounts, while farmers and farmers are being individually supported. 40% is reduced to gas prices, and the heating allowance increased this year to nearly nine hundred thousand households. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is this aid enough to cover all increases? I say that no, because it covers - and it could unfortunately not be otherwise - just a part of the international revaluations. These extraordinary interventions that we are doing will continue. In no case, however, should they question the budgetary balance. In other words, they must not undermine the basic structure that we have built up so far and that is what allows us today to grant emergency grants and discounts every time. These, of course, apply to those who understand how public finances operate and not to those who are obviously launching easy and inexpensive announcements, either to abolish specific taxes, which ultimately correspond to a minimum of euros or to extra-realistic packages of benefits, which would eventually force the state to resort to new taxes to cover them. The apprentice magicians and the "leaf trees" now belong to other times. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today is the time of truth and growth for all, of a policy that wants, through investment, to increase employment and public wealth, and that is where all citizens have a share. A policy that wants, through the extroversion of businesses and specialised work, to make the country more competitive and thus to be able to finance a safety net and the weakest. The first pillar of this direction is now visible. Forty-eight projects totaling nearly 3 billion have already joined the Recovery Fund. In almost fifty-three years, strategic investments have been approved, thirty projects of PPP that touch the EUR 8 billion and the new development law, which would have been voted on if the motion of censure - to be voted next week - had not been implemented, it is coming to considerably widen these prospects. For the first time Greece is in the first ten of the most attractive countries to implement business projects. Indeed, important public areas have now been exploited, which have been'slain' for years, in the squabble of bureaucracy and in the reef of ideology. Thousands of jobs are already created in Greek and Kassiopi. Tourist investment is going on everywhere in the country. Here, in the center of Athens, there is an investment orgasm. Transfers of real estate in Afantou, Rhodes, Gournes, Heraklion, Crete, have been completed. Greek processing is being revived. Many examples of Greek businesses, existing and new, investing in the competitive industry. At the same time, something should have been heard, Mr Tsipras, about the fact that our country is becoming the headquarters of international technological colleges. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine that not all of these would come to Greece if the country were on the verge of destruction. More they need to know, something they need to see. Something needs to be seen by the 'MICROSOT' which comes to invest EUR 1 billion in creating three data centers. The DIGITAL REALTY must be seen to make a similar investment of significant capital over a decade. Something should be seen by companies such as CISCO and DELOITTE operating know-how centres with hundreds of high-skilled jobs. In the investigation companies such as PFIZER, with the business centre, which is located in the capital city of Macedonia, in Thessaloniki. That's where they work five hundred executives. I recommend you, Mr Tsipras, at some point, to visit it. You will find that many of those who work there are young children who have left in the years of the crisis, have left many of your days and have chosen to return to Greece for the days of this government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Go talk to them a little, listen to their stories. Of course, all of this is framed by other parallel investments, by targeted privatisations, by the treatment of outstanding problems, by the Scaramaga shipyards, Elefsina, ELVO, Syros, which currently operates six hundred workers, and welcome the fact that this government has resolved their issues. All of this is indifferent, isn't it? But for those workers who find work in these companies it is not at all indifferent, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I can assure you that all these people are not listening to all of what you have said today, this picture of the disaster that you have presented. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, major projects are under way on the E65 Patras-Tower road network. Don't remember the sins now - because you also talked to us about opaqueness - of your favourite contractors when you cut the work out to eight so that you could give it to their favorite contractors. And yes, this government has succeeded and unleashed it and the works on Patras - Tower begin in the next few months. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the second pillar of our policy, to which I should like to refer today, is based on our social policy. As we have said many times, there is no sustainable economic growth without social cohesion. There is ultimately no successful business without satisfied workers, those with the electronic working card of the Ministry of Labour will finally be able to obtain an objective guarantee for their hours and overtime. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The world of work now has a clear framework for distance employment. More permits for both parents. Protection against arbitrary discrimination in the workplace. The innovative institution of the first official comes to strengthen young children who had never worked in their lives with the significant financial support of the thousands of hundreds of euros - six hundred euros to the employee, six hundred euros to the firm - to find a child who has never worked for his first job. In addition, young people are being given a special multi-faceted programme. It starts with moves like the mobile telephony tax exemption already being implemented. Teaching vouchers to obtain computers. And they reach important institutional areas, such as social reform by creating their individual money in supplementary pensions, which will ultimately provide young children with higher pensions and full remuneration. But on the forefront of the weaker ones they also speak the same data. I would remind you that in December six hundred and thirty-four thousand low pensioners and disability benefits beneficiaries received exceptional aid of EUR 200 fifty. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the same month a double grant was directed to the two hundred and fifty thousand households entitled to the minimum guaranteed income. And not to mention our special categories of fellow citizens! Two thousand unemployed and their relatives have already been employed in the public sector. The application of the disability card will make the daily life of a hundred and eighty thousand disabled fellow citizens easier this year. These are only part of the actions aimed at this sensitive social group. I could even speak of the 'Personal Assistant', such an important reform for our disabled fellow citizens who face serious mobility problems, for 'Neighbourhood Dante', this innovative institution that comes to support working mothers. I could speak for all fourteen thousand more children who were in position at children's stations, for the two thousand euros for every newborn child who was implemented and institutionalised by this government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are aspects of a state that facilitates the daily lives of the citizen and that is why it is digitised. Thousands of three hundred services are already provided electronically by gov.gr, abolishing about sixty - look - annual citizens' visits to public bodies. A large part of the trade is now automatically issued, certificates, marketing authorisations, intangible prescriptions and, of course, the dates for vaccination. All of this concerns those who can appreciate true care for the worker and the weakest, but also the value of technology, when it is accompanied by the smile and obviously not those who spoke only with the workers and held the citizens hostages with election counterfactors! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And certainly not by those who had such an effective digital policy that for four years they could not even activate 112! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, a debate like today's traditionally prescribes references to all policy areas. This is practically impossible. I will, however, make a very brief reference to the eighteenth standards and experimental schools and vocational schools which we have set up, the new school of sixteen new training programmes and the sixteenth thousand permanent teachers recruited by the government for the first time in a decade. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I cannot, however, dwell on the cornerstone of the strong Greece that we all vision that is not our defence and diplomatic policy, the one that is also framed by our effective manipulations in immigration. In 2019, immigrants and refugees in structures were sixty-five thousand. Today is about half. The hundred and twenty-one old structures - many of them were rodents - were thirty-four and now they're human and the flows have fallen to the lowest point for ten years... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...because we made our commitment to guard our country's borders, whether it's land or sea. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today Greece has a web of strong strategic relations with America and France, with which it is associated with defensive assistance. The relevant defence cooperation agreement with the United States will come to be voted on in Parliament next month. And that is where you should explain, Mr Tsipras, why you are not voting on it. I will look forward to your position with great interest! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I guess when you're referring to five billion of direct assignments, you've included Rafah spending, haven't you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the first Raphala is already flying to the Greek skies and new frigates are already being built! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because this government is investing in the country's defence! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because without strong defence there is no national confidence and reliable foreign policy! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Yes, these Raphas, for which not one of your people has accepted to come to the reception ceremony! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our foreign policy concludes agreements guaranteeing our rights at sea with many neighbouring states. It spreads our friendship from Israel to the Arab world. I believe that there are developments that make all Greeks proud, apart from, of course, those who believed that there are no sea borders and immigrants must come and then disappear in some magical way! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, those who protested on the way to Koufantina, but in Parliament, they are voting against top strategic agreements for the country! I'm talking to you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are the same people who are now talking about supposedly state of affairs and authoritarianism of the government. Did you dedicate one third of your speech to Mr. Frothite? Purple? One third of your speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u372	You don't know him, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u373	You embraced a trialor who grew up on your own days and was brought to justice on our own days! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder if SYRIZA strains agree with this choice. That is why you have finally made this motion of censure. That's why you did it, huh? For Mr. Furthiotis. Isn't that right? Mr. Furthiotis is so important in the political conquest...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u374	Please! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u375	We'll talk about the gutter in a minute. I found it interesting that Mr. Furtiotis is so important in the political dialogue that no other Chief of Antipopulation who took the floor did not make a single mention of him! Nobody! Only you, in one third of your speech. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] How low, Mr. Tsipras, will you fall? How desperate are you going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u376	Come on! You don't sound anyway. Quiet. That doesn't make any sense. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u377	Let's talk about real data again. The establishment of the National Transparency Authority was a task of this government, as was the upgrading of the independent authorities. The choice of the leadership of justice with respect for their yearbook, as well as the revision of the Criminal Code that is now in line with the sensitivities of society! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the facts are enough, because I do not have much to say about democracy with those who systematically targeted ten leading political people! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Not for the biggest scandal, as the notorious Rasputin of your time said, your Minister, but for the most athletic construction called "NOVARTIS". [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] A demolition that collapsed and its protagonists today are in the hands of justice. One in the special court and other defendants, suspects - look out - not for their opinion, but for why they published fake evidence to set up false charges. That's why they're called as suspects! Not for their opinion. That's not a journalism. That's what they call a gang! It's not called freelance, it's liberation. [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] With this underworld you're a hug.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u378	Come on. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u379	I shall speak today only for the part of which I have the honour of being President. Two former Prime Ministers, Mr Samaras and Mr Pikrammenos, four members of our party, Mr. Abrahamopoulos, Georgiadis, Lykourenzos and Salmas were targeted as part of this process. All cases have been filed by justice! [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] When will you finally have the courage to apologize to them? When? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do it now if you have the courage! I interrupt my speech and take the floor to apologize! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You hung them in the handkerchiefs in this Chamber, the most disgusting make ever built! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And today that their cases have entered the file, sit silent and stay under the mask. Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you! You make us sermons for the rule of law, you! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] As far as rights are concerned, others talk about them and others serve them. Because the LGBTKI+ National Strategy is our job, as is the national gender equality plans, to tackle child and female abuse and our obligations to disabled people. So the rights, gentlemen, of Officers, are not just movements. Evidence that those who pour off instead of acting did not have for years been able to make the simplest moves. New Democracy had to come to power to make it self-evident but also dynamic in its symbolism. To abolish the exclusion of our homosexual fellow citizens from volunteer blood donation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Even that could not be the case for you who were allegedly cut off on the rights of our LGBTK fellow citizens! That's not it either. It was so hard for you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Plearis should have done so, which, otherwise, you are accused of being far-right. It's a small detail, a small detail that, however, shows a great difference. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to describe only a few aspects of our policy, as I said, not to address Mr Tsipras first, but to speak to the citizens. My aim is not to contribute to the toxic climate in which the Head of SYRIZA feels comfortable. For me and for our Government any crisis, whether this occurs at our borders or occurs in health or occurs in the economy is a moment of anxiety and responsibility. It's a challenge to unite and become better. For you, however, it is only for political speculation and for party yurush. In other words, I would like to point out how different we really are, because I represent a government that moves forward, making a lot of mistakes right but also some mistakes, while you, Mr Tsipras, are simply representing a wrong government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is precisely why today's motion of censure is, in fact, a move of despair. It's a no-form reproach. Apparently, she's doomed to fail, because our differences don't just stop there. Our party, as I have said many times, is open to every fertile idea of every current. It is a fact that has proved in practice that any progressive citizen can welcome. And with him we meet not only in the programming declarations, but also in the difficulties in implementing the government programme. It is true that the country has achieved a great deal in unprecedented adversity. However, it did not have time to taste all the positive results of the major changes it has promoted in this period. Their bright beams, however, are already showing together with the medium-term hope of slowing down the health crisis. And then the period of performance of the large sections that have taken place will begin and it will really be the time of prosperity for all. In this optimistic direction the government would like next door in the context of creative criticism and submission of proposals from all political forces. Although with the Acoustic Opposition it is now known that it divides us into chaos, a gap of political, moral, aesthetic, I would expect a more positive response and more creative proposals from KINAL. I would like to explain: not general principles and easily slogans which result in wishes, but realistic measures, costed and adapted to the present circumstances. You won't be able, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL - PASOK, for a long time, to stay on your exterior with your Chief to give courtesy interviews. Unfortunately, I did not hear such specific proposals during these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u380	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Scandalidis, you have spoken and written many articles. We know you. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u382	Mr Scandalidis, I have heard you conclude your speech by saying to yourself that 'we are coming from the future'. Now you say it, it's a little drawn. I'm sorry, but I listened very carefully. You don't come from the future. I would, however, expect that your statements, Mr Katrin, on an autonomous course, would ultimately lead to an autonomous attitude, a differentiated speech and a similar vote. But on the contrary, I can see that you chose to write behind SYRIZA. And that will eventually be recorded in history. You had the choice to diversify yourself, but you were fully associated with SYRIZA's proposal of distrust. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with this comment: the country is optimistic and confidently moving towards the next day, establishing every step forward, drawing strength from any delays in our pace. On the one hand, the national economy and society must coordinate themselves with international trends, green policies and peak technologies, but our policy must also be consistent with the demands of society. While, on the other hand, collective progress requires political stability and continuity in state modernisation. As for today's motion of distrust very quickly, perhaps tomorrow, it will have been forgotten as another SYRIZA firework in order to defend the inner-party turbulence and internal-party competition that siege him. It has also proved to be without substance and without reflection, and this has been reflected before the debate in two at the same time. On Thursday morning, one of the world's largest banking colleges, JP MORGAN, announced the acquisition of part of a Greek electronic banking company "VIVA WALLET" by offering over one billion funds for its development. At the same time, the head of the American colossal announced to me the Bank's intentions to invest more in Greece, as well as that the JP MORGAN has chosen Greece as a basis for the wider region. At the same time, it was known that every employee of the company would receive a cumulative cash bonus, but also a shareholder rights amounting to EUR 400,000. It is another vote of confidence and a new opportunity for the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time as this was the case, just a few hundred metres away, Mr. Tsipras put forward a motion of censure against the worst government since postmopulation. Two parallel events, two different images, two opposing messages and eventually two different worlds. Tonight the doomed past blames the creative present and the hopeful future, and that is why I call on you to vote against it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, following the speech of the Prime Minister, the debate on the motion of censure against the government, submitted by the Chief of Staff and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, and eighty-four Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, is adjourned. I would remind you that on the first day of January 28, the meeting was concluded at 3.30 p.m. That concludes, Mr Hatzidakis, just before you break it. The second day's sitting, Saturday, was completed this morning at 3.45 p.m. and we have been able to speak a hundred and fifty Members from the list, six Parliamentary Representatives, twenty-eight Ministers and Deputy Ministers, six party Chiefs, i.e. a hundred ninety speakers in a three-day debate. It will be followed by a roll-call vote to be taken by electronic system, in accordance with the provisions of Rules 142(4) and (5), in conjunction with the provisions of Rules 141(3) and 5, 72 and 72A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as applicable. Responding to the motion of censure responds to 'HAI'. Non-acceptable responders shall reply ‘NO’. Refusing to vote will answer 'PANIS'. This decision, on the basis of the Constitution, is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. at least 150 plus 1 votes, as defined in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, as I have told you. The vote will take place immediately by the Members who are here and by those who can come slowly and are in the building. Members may also vote in letters to be sent to the Bureau under Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which will be counted against. We are entering the electronic roll-call vote. You are voting on all the attendants, not on the initials, as we said. On your screen there is a ballot with the motion of distrust against the government, and next to the words "NAH", "OH", "OH", "OH". I repeat that those who accept the proposal say 'NAH', the non-responsibility of responding 'OH', the voters say 'APPROVAL'. So make sure you vote. The directives are more important than the procedure. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or even to revise it - be careful, because something can be done inadvertently - by the end of the vote and before the result is announced. If you have any questions, you may address the Bureau and the relevant Members of this House in order to assist you. After that, I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u384	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u385	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u386	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[CHANGING PAGE]] A total of 299 Members voted. In favour of the motion of censure, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 142 Members. On the motion of censure, 156 Members voted against. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. Of the 300 Members of Parliament, Mrs Giannakou, who has been unable to attend, is therefore also 299. The motion of censure by the MPs of the Radical Left coalition against the government is therefore rejected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u388	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 31st January 2022. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 325/18-1-2022 by MP Laconia of the New Democracy, Neocles Cretan to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Support for the State in the Sports Unions and how to pay the payments distributed to amateur clubs". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 328/20-1-2022, a topical question by MP Kozani of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Kallipe Vetta to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Responses for infrastructure, funding and overall sustainability of district heating in Kozani". 3. The question by No 327/19-1-2022 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Problems to record doses of vaccination". 4. The question by number 326/19-1-2022 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Maria Konnakkas, to the Minister of Health, on "Emergency measures for the staffing and safe operation of the Artificial Nefros Unit in Boston Hospital of Mytilini". 5. The question by No 324/17-1-2022 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Special liquidation of LARCO' and an assessment of its value'. 6. Under number 333/21-1-2022, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government plans to privatise the ESS at the heart of the pandemic." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 331/21-1-2022 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Christina Alexopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Electronic Register of Sports Associations (No. 142, p.4714/2020)”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 329/20-1-2022, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias - Kilaidonis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An urgent need to build the Farsalon Watchtower dam in Enipeas". 3. The Question No 336/24-1-2022 by Congressman Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Delete the repayable advance from earthquakes, as was done for firemen and a programme for the replacement of lost income for professionals, workers and farmers". 4. The Question No 341/24-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To abolish the unacceptable regulation which makes the establishment of the inclusion sections of all pupils in the school." 5. The Question No 334/22-1-2022 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "I hide seismic research on oil off the Cypriot Gulf". 6. The Question No 332/21-1-2022 by Mr.Athens of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Direct actions to save the bridge of Karytina". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 330/21-1-2022 by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To ensure that the funds for the repair of the Sykia Halkidiki Bridge are immediately secured." 8. The question by No 342/24-1-2022 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The circular of the Ministry of Education on university exam". 9. The question by number 340/24-1-2022 of the Athens Parliamentary I of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Information about the cutting of hundreds of trees in the squares of Athens due to line 4 of the metro". 10. The Question No 338/24-1-2022 by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent staffing of the volume section of the Yannitson Hospital". 11. The Question No 343/24-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'A delay in payment of the financial support for professional fishermen'. 12. The Question No 337/24-1-2022 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Crete: seven hundred six giant wind turbines plunder nature". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1550/29-11-2021 question by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Inactive and non-functional ITH beds at the General Hospital of Lamia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1872/14-12-2021 of the Member of the Eotolokarnania Movement of Change Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "In despair the inhabitants of Itolokarnania after the problems in the bridge of Eunochori". 3. The Question No 398/18-10-2021 by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Derogation of the Supreme Labour Council by G.G. Work, resulting in the dismissal of a hundred and thirty workers in Kavala Fertilizers." Also, on Monday, 24 January 2022 (transport). A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 309/13-1-2022, by MP Larissa, New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Actions for the anniversary of the Minority of the Asia Minor Destruction". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In a very difficult situation, health centres and regional hospitals in Eastern Attica". 3. Question No 319/17-1-2022 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Heraklion Movement, to the Minister of National Defence, on "What is the government position on the sustainability, consolidation and safeguarding of the jobs of the Eleusis shipyards?" 4. The Question No 305/11-1-2022 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The suspension of on-call of the Pentelis Children's Hospital and its conversion to an exclusive vaccination centre". 5. The 304/11-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "PYRKAL in Elefsina: a government sacrifice to the refineries against the decisions of the competent bodies". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 311/14-1-2022 topical question by Mr. Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Our struggle for the reunification of the Parthenon Sculptures". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 308/13-1-2022 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct placement of the new Oncology Hospital of Thessaloniki in the former Karatasos camp in western Thessaloniki". 3. Question No 320/17-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change, Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "In the air the Kazanaris and thousands of vineyard growers and agricultural households asking for the designation of traditional tsikoudia Crete to be maintained." 4. The Question No 315/17-1-2022 by the Member of Parliament, Aitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papastasis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Severe problems of the farmers of Epirus". 5. The 306/13-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The end of hydrocarbon research in Crete'. 6. The 314/17-1-2022 topical question by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on "Direct need to rebuild the Skopelos Health Center". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 322/17-1-2022 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The government's responsibility has led thousands of farmers - producers from the recurring problems in paying subsidies." 8. - H under number 310/13-1-2022, topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Press: Valanidorrachis Forest - Protection of the ownership of the public". 9. The 312/17-1-2022 topical question by MP Rethymnon of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The suspension of a newspaper from the Pentelis Children's Hospital is a "mutage" of public pediatric care". 10. The question under number 323/17-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Reinstate the hundreds of twenty instalments for all citizens and enable all citizens to join in regulating the seventeen two instalments and dues before 2020’. 11. The Question No 313/ 17-1-2022 by MP Larissa of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The economic consequences of the green agreement on cotton, apples, peaches and open tomato". 12. Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The introduction of a 50 euro ticket to the shipwreck of Alonissos". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 1140/41/12-11-2021, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Absence of the government's will to take risk compensation measures on the electricity market". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 276/13-10-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reimbursements on movable assets destroyed by the earthquake of 27 September". 3. Question No 1705/6-12-2021 by Mr Socrates Famelou, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Will the government implement the analogous burial fee of Law 4819/2021, promoting the burning of waste and narcotics? Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-30-S1-commons.u389	With the consent of the House at 21.19 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Monday, January 31, 2022, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: a) An anniversary report on the memory of the fallen Greek Navy officers in Imia on January 31, 1996, and a minute's silence, b) parliamentary control, topical debate and c) legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: Development Law - Greece Powerful Development, in accordance with the agenda.
