ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 30-1-2022 mandate, the PRACTICAL PRACTICE's PRACTICE minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Sunday, January 30, 2022.]] We begin with an anniversary report on the memory of the fallen Navy officers in Imia on 31 January 1996 and a minute's silence. Today, then, it is a day of memory for our country, a day that we must always remember about faith and devotion to the country and its national ideals that showed three HELLENES - in capital letters. So today, twenty-six years ago, on the night of January 30, 1996, Imia three officers of our Navy gave their lives to continue to wave up the edges of the Aegean Sea. It was Christodoulos Karathanasis, Panagiotis Vlahakos and Hector Jalopsos, who today we honor and thank them for their sacrifice. They sent a bronze message with many recipients inside and outside Greece that, in other words, we Greeks, who live here and those who live on earth, do not have a drama of reluctance to dare the incredible, what they seem to be unsuccessful and impracticable, in order to defend our homeland, these sacred soils against any beast. History really teaches us, whether they are the Thermopylae either the Albanian Epic or today the Imias, that the Greeks have never won even if they had to deal with the worst scenarios. In the end they were the winners, they never sent their flags either to the Strait of Thermoply, as I said before, either to the mountains of Albania, or to the rocky islands of the Aegean. This is the key message that Christoulos, Panagiotis and Hector signed with their own blood, and so I believe that we will move forward in the future if necessary. With the recent agreements we made on a diplomatic and military level, we are even more ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I know, like you, that we live in strange times. The geostrategic realignments that are happening worldwide are huge. In our neighborhood, too, there is a lot going on. It is right next to us that there is a country that has not ceased to threaten us by violating every concept of international law. For decades, Turkey has been seeking to "mutualize" our national sovereignty, as it has done in Cyprus, as it is now struggling with nails and teeth to do in the Aegean. That's the bitter truth. Unfortunately, he's our neighbor and the worst, I'm afraid, he doesn't change. The Greek people are peaceful and peaceful, they defend democracy and peace in the south-east Mediterranean and, as everyone should know well, they are ready at all times, if necessary, to defend any infamous land that belongs to them with a greater weapon, faith and devotion for their homeland, with shield of the ideals and values of their ancestors for centuries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not threatening anyone, but we are not afraid of anyone. We demand, however, expressly and unequivocally, both our allies in NATO or in the European Union to respect all of them faithfully the law and not to forget that, if necessary, Greece has millions of Karathanasis, Vlahakus and Yalops throughout the world. Please keep a minute's silence in the memory of the three officers. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate, let me make a statement. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Development law - Greece strong growth". Today, twenty-six questions will be discussed. The Secretary of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of this matter in writing. As far as I can see, we're starting with Mr. Screka, whom there are several questions. My colleagues, who are addressing Mr Skreka, are almost all here. We begin with our second question under number 328/20-1-2022 of the First Circuit Kozani of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Kallipe Vetta to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Responses for infrastructure, funding and overall the sustainability of district heating in Kozani". Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, district heating has been operating uninterruptedly since 1993 and provides hot water heating and production services to thousands of households, but also public services, hospital, district, schools, etc. I would like you to reply specifically to me about the sustainability, the future and the time gap and the cost of operating district heating. I want to be more specific: First of all, the installation of district heating is served by units 3, 4 and 5 of St. Demetrius. According to the timetable you have imposed, with the violent degreasement, the 3 and 4 units of Agios Dimitrios will be closed at 31-12-22 and unit 5 at 31-12-23. There are many questions here, both from me and, of course, from the citizens of Kozani, who have very much insecurity over the future of district heating, as the needs of the Kozani district heating that are required of 120 to 130 megawatt thermal units will not be covered by the closure of unit 3 and 4 when only 5 operates. Second question: Today, when damage occurs or maintenance occurs at the mentioned units, a large gap is created, covered with oil boilers, which burn two cubic blocks per hour, and this is particularly expensive for the municipal company. That means 60,000 euros a day. Let me tell you attributes that, for this year's time, approximately EUR 1 million has been reached, and last year, it had reached EUR 2 million for a municipal company that cannot cope with it, as you can see. We therefore ask that you place yourself on your assistance in covering the costs arising from the oil market. I would like to say to you that, last week, there was an increase in the JHA tariffs of over 10%, which particularly burdens both the municipal and the individual budgets, if we take into account the other increases we have in electricity, in the basic goods, which, as you know, are very large. Also a third question is very crucial - and we want you to be placed for your intentions - regarding covering 100% of the costs of interconnecting district heating with STHY, the new form that will be created to cover district heating. Is it to 100% or to the lowest percentage? It will not be possible for the Municipality of Kozani to cover these costs, which for the interconnection is estimated at about 50 million. That's all for now. We would like your clear and definite answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u4	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, my colleague, for the question you have asked. Indeed, it concerns an area that is in transition, since we have decided to withdraw the lignite plants, which, as you know, because of the burning of lignite produces huge amounts of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and in this way, unfortunately contribute to climate change and to the result of this, the climate crisis, which, unfortunately, we are seeing every day in our lives. In order to ensure the uninterrupted and uninterrupted functioning of the Western Macedonian teletherings, the Memorandum of Understanding and strategic cooperation signed on 17 September 2020 by representatives of all the parties involved, both nationally and locally, but also at regional level, has already been drawn up and implemented. This memorandum includes a coherent, sustainable plan with the following key points: firstly, the interconnection of all thermal energy production points with all the consumption points of the three cities of Amyntaio, Kozani and Ptolemais. Secondly, it includes creating an energy hub, a hub, within the Heart Atmospheric Station, to which all the television heaters will be interconnected. Thirdly, it includes the formation of a single entrepreneurial structure with a partnership between the municipal companies in these cities. Fourthly, let me say that Heart Station, the Steady Heart Station, is the area of arrival of the middle-pressure gas pipeline from the Trikala Imathias, the implementation of which is already under way by the DESCA and will begin its construction in 2022. PPC already, as you know, contributes and will further contribute to the implementation of the new plan in terms of the implementation of new thermal energy production projects concerning both Kardias and Ptolemaidas, Ptolemais Atmospheric Station, Ptolemais 5. The following projects are planned on the basis of PPC's planning. Firstly, the project of installing electrodes at the Heart Atmospheric Station, of 3.5m euros, is already in operation and produces remote heating in the City of Jordan. Indeed, the increased cost of operating these electrodes came from us and we have, in fact, covered it by 15 million euros, by a ministerial decision I made on Christmas Eve, so that we can support local society and do not accept a very difficult increase because of an increase in the cost of electricity. This money came from the Energy Transfer Fund, which, as you know, we have recommended. The work of cogeneration at the Heart Atmospheric Station has also been declared using gas, a budget of 80 million euros, and tenders are expected in the next period. The necessary structures are to be allocated to Ptolemais 5, which completes the construction, for the possibility of providing district heating, of a budget of EUR 9,000,000. Finally, the technical specifications have been completed, and in total the preparation of the tender for the installation of gas boilers, a budget of EUR 18 million, at the Heart Station, and the opening of a competitive procedure is expected in the near future. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u7	Minister, we've heard this before. I did not get any specific answers either to the timetable or to the cost and construction of the successor scheme. You only told us about the City of Jordan. We know about the City of Jordan and you did well, and there are questions, but they are not here. I talk to you attributes and specifically about the district heating of Kosani, which takes heat from the units of Agios Dimitrios. You have not told us how to fund and how to fill the time gap for the adequacy of the district heating system, what I have put you in my prototype, for the end of 2022 to the operation of the new shape, which will be in operation, or how to ensure uninterrupted and free from additional costs for the citizens of the district of district of district of heating in Kozani during the transition to the post-linguistic era. Let me tell you attributes that the deadline for the completion of STHYA's work, you have always said, according to information we have from the Technical Services Directorate in cooperation with the Television Service Directorate, will be completed by the end of 2024. The units close respectively in 2022, as I told you, in 2023, and there is a time gap since 2022 that both units will close, but there is a time gap in 2024 that will create the NTHYS, without knowing how to cover this cost of 50 million. You told us about the creation of the implementation of this unit. I am talking about your interconnection, which will be completed, as the information says, that it will be created, operated, completed in the second half of 2024. You know very well what winters we have in the area. How will they be completed? This void how will it be covered? And basically the cost. Please give us specific answers. We're full of words and drawings in the area. Two and a half years after the Prime Minister's announcement on violent deprivation, nothing has been done at all, no investment, nothing at all, but unemployment is only increasing in the region and we have side-effects, loss of GDP, which is 45% energy dependent, as you know very well, loss of jobs and, of course, loss of district heating, which is too much for the citizens. Please respect this concern for the citizens and give us specific answers and timetables, not in general and without vagueness. I asked you specific questions about when the units are closing, the time gap that exists and of course the cost, which I fear will be passed on to the consumer. I would like you to answer all of this, because district heating is a social asset that people are rightfully entitled to. They have offered a great deal to Greece's development. Rightly, therefore, they have a social asset that your Government has committed itself to functioning uninterruptedly. But according to the timetables, according to the data, we also have a time gap, which I would like you to answer specifically for them, and we also have a huge cost, which I do not know how it will be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u9	Of course, the difference in the government of our own, Mrs SYRIZA, is that we have really planned that this transition should take place in a way that increases and improves the sustainability of local society, creates thousands of jobs, contrary to what we have received. Because, as you know, as you are from that area, if you saw the hours of operation of the units, their environmental permits and the investments that had to be made, these units would close down, because nothing has happened in these five years that you have ruled. So reality is specific, people know it, your fellow citizens know it. So I do not think that with timely questions you may be able to cover the lack of the SYRIZA government, which unfortunately has done nothing for four, five years, knowing very well the increased costs that these lignite plants would have due to the carbon tax, which comes from the auctions and the stock exchanges to the value of carbon dioxide emissions in Europe. They knew that the necessary investments had not been made in order to be able to operate with modern environmental studies, protecting the environment. So in short, they had left everything in God’s mercy and left it all to the next one to manage. As you know very well, Amyntheus, for example, was already in the process of withdrawal, like the Heart, like other units, and it just had not been done at all. So we come to change all this, to settle it, to plan it. And it's already happening, and as you can see, no one's left without a remote heating when we're talking. The needs of Kozani district heating are covered by the operation of lignite plants at the Atmospheric Station of Agios Dimitrios. We must also say that the projects I have described will ensure the availability and adequacy of thermal energy for the whole of the interconnected system, of course, if the connections are completed. I would add that the implementation of these connections is the responsibility and responsibility of the municipal district heating companies and the interstate company, which we and we will help it to carry out this work. Its recommendation is provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding in Article 24 of Law 4872/2021. Moreover, according to the planning and planning of the municipal company, the Kozani district heating interconnection and installation project with the single interconnected district heating system at Kardias is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. Also, we should say that PPC is already considering and launching alternatives to meet the needs of Kozani's district heating for the transitional period, such as the installation of an electroplate system at Agios Dimitrios. This solution, as you know, is already being implemented in the City of Jordan, which we supported with EUR 15 million - I repeat - in order to prevent the increase in costs from being passed on to consumers because they increased the cost of electricity. I think that with all of this I have answered your questions. We have a coherent plan, which will ensure that the inhabitants of these regions are provided with uninterrupted heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u10	Will the fifth debate under number 334/22-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "I hide seismic investigations of oil off the Gulf of Cyprus?". You have your honor now, Critona, I see, with two other questions. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me start by saying something strange has happened in the process. There has been a change in the order that the questions have been tabled, in the way they are discussed, which I do not understand. It would be interesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u12	I can't give you an answer. The paper comes in ready from the service. The Bureau doesn't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u13	There's been something that's changed...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u14	Fine. But the substance doesn't change. And your three questions aren't written for discussion? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u15	Minister, I personally was there, in Alimos. We stood up for this animal with many civilians, and we felt the agony for this zimbie who dug up to Alimos. There was joy that despite his difficult state of health, he made it three days later seems to be fine. At the same time, your Government has secretly launched seismic investigations at the zife house, the "house" of this dolphin and whale blowers. Seismic research is carried out at 250 decibels, when the study by the magazine 'NATURE' - which I hope you will know, is the most recent scientific journal on the environment, I will present it in the Minutes - explains that 230 decibels are enough to dissolve the internal organs of these animals and to have mass zip awards, as we have in many cases with military exercises, which are carried out at 230. You do it at 250. You're secretly doing it. You have not informed local government, the management body has not been informed, the appropriate procedures have not been followed. You do so at a distance from the protected area of Kyparissikos, at the limits and on the global wetland for the zifos, for the blowers, which is the Greek Tafros. Based on ACCOBAMS, this international agreement we have signed as a country is a critical habitat. And so is the IUCN, the International Union for Nature Conservation. We invite you to stop the crime in Kyparissia today.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President. I will tell you that, of course, measures have been taken to safeguard this ecologically sensitive area and the marine species, the sea turtle and the cots they live there, since seismic research is carried out using sound methods, namely methods that do not jeopardise the living of these species. According to the 5-10-2021 recommendation from the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment and Energy to the ED, the "Greek Hydrocarbon Company", there is acceptance of the environmental action plan for the geophysical research programme in a marine area of the Kyrgyz Gulf, the so-called Block 10, that is, Section 10, Plot 10. This environmental action plan includes and implements all measures planned to comply with MARPOL and ACCOBAMS International Conventions, as well as with the instructions of the Agency for the Management of Protected Locations, and in addition measures have been adopted to overcome best international standards through an extended monitoring programme. For example, we have doubled the exclusion zone, the distance, we have doubled the observers of marine mammals to ensure that they really do not accept any discomfort that would jeopardise their lives. Therefore, it is ensured that any significant impact on the vagina environment is avoided with regard to the effects on sensitive species, such as cetaceans and sea turtles. Ask whether the Local Governments and the Management Bodies of the regions concerned have been informed. I will tell you that the competent agency, the Environmental Licence Directorate, of course, has sent the programme, the environmental action plan and has informed the operators and services involved of geophysical research in the maritime area of the Cyprus Gulf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u18	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u19	Minister, what you're saying is true. The TAs have not been updated, the Management Body has not been informed. There are relevant documents that will get the light of publicity in the day on them. You are talking about protection measures and you say that ACCOBAMS is being observed. Do you know what ACCOBAMS says, the contract that binds you as a Minister of the Environment, if you feel that way? It says that seismic research should not be carried out in the cod habitats. You go to the main Mediterranean habitat, in the Greek Tafero, protected by ACCOBAMS, protected by IUCN and over there you do seismic research. You are violating the principle, the first point of the ACCOBAMS guidelines. I shall not mention, of course, the infinite points described by ACCOBAMS, which are not being observed, even beyond these areas. What are the terrible measures you have taken? Half-hour visual surveillance before the start of seismic investigations? Are these the terrible measures that you have taken, or are they one kilometer from protected areas? You are violating all our international agreements. You must stop this crime in the Cypresian. There can be no such mobilization of your Government for a zip and then "bomb" the place that all zips are, their basic residence, with frequencies beyond what scientific studies say. Read what I deposited in the Minutes. The 230 decibels dissolve their internal organs. You're using 250. You're criminal, Minister. What's going on in the Cyprassian is a crime against life. He has to stop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u21	I cannot understand, Mr Colleague, why you are adopting such a language, since you know that it is not true what you are saying and that everything is done according to best practice. We are doing even more than what is envisaged in the best international practices to carry out such research. I have to tell you that what I have mentioned is absolutely true. The relevant environmental service, the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, has sent the programme, the environmental action plan for the implementation of seismic research for the region, for geophysical research in the Cyprus Gulf on Plot 10 and has sent it to the following bodies and services. First, the Management Body of the National Marine Park of Zakynthos, at the Wetlands Management Agency of the University of Strofykia and the Kyparisian Gulf, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy had notified it at the corresponding Management Department of the Natural Environment and Biodiversity Department of the Department of Protected Areas, the Ministry of National Defence at the Ministry of Defence in C2 Address, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, the Headquarters of the Port Authority of the Greek Coast Guard, the maritime sector, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Department of Marine Antiquities in the Department of Archaeological Monuments and Research, and finally the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese of Western Greece and Ion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u22	We move on to the twelfth under number 337/24-1-2022, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Crete: Seven hundred and thirty-six giant wind turbines plunder nature". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, from the ceremonies we go to the most important and threatened birds. We have Crete that hosts not only vultures, vultures. It is indeed a last ark for biodiversity in terms of endangered species of birds and in particular predators. Over there you have spaced - the RAE has already given specific production assurances - neither very seven hundred or thirty-six wind turbines, from one end of the island. Without the approval of the management studies, you will proceed to such projects when we have been convicted by the European Court of Justice in December 2020 to place projects within protected areas without a management plan. They do not take into account archaeological sites, they do not take into account what is envisaged in the EIA spatial planning, this spatial planning which you as government have said is not good, that it is not strict enough. And you as a government use it and don't change it as you have been committed for so long to continue to approve wind parks throughout Greece without protection, without nature protection. In this case, the requirement for the production certificate was that they should connect themselves with the mainland. You have made progress - the RAE, which you of course are supervising and controlling - in renewing the licence, taking out this condition, rather than withdrawing this licence. Is that the process? When a licence is conditional and is not respected, do you not withdraw, Minister? Isn't that how the license was written? Why didn't you call her back? It's not just us, it's called you by the municipalities who have appealed and objected. Because local society is against these projects. We ask you to restore legitimacy, European and national. Stop placing wind turbines in nature. Would you like to move on to the RES? We have told you again and again, proceed with the installation of roof photovoltaics, instead of constantly increasing the energy costs of the roof and at home, do this work that the European Commission tells us that it would allow us to produce over 30% of the energy we consume. That would, yes, put us in the climate leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I call on you to see - and I will send you - my speech in the Greek Parliament yesterday, where what you say we should do we already start implementing it, namely to promote and help the installation of photovoltaics on the roof, so that the Greek households can become energy autonomous, that they can self-consumer the energy they produce and thus enjoy much lower energy costs, and that is why we are going to create a programme for supporting and strengthening these investments next time. In fact, we have set the TENE to proceed directly to the operation of an electronic platform where we will provide specific energy space in all the prefectures of Greece, in all the regional units, even in those prefectures that are saturated and we will only give this energy space for households, for families, for families, for houses, for houses, so that they can build directly by making a request within an electronic platform very easily, very quickly, without hardship, without paper and so that they can go ahead with an investment that will enable them first to produce energy at very low cost and consume secondly to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere and thus help to protect our planet and address the causes of climate change. So what you're saying at the theoretical level, we've already started as a government and implemented it and you'll see it in the next period. What we are calling on you to tell us is if you want the RES or you do not want them. Why? You cannot say, on the one hand, that we must stop using fossil fuels, as is natural gas for electricity production and, in general, use fossil fuels in our daily lives, because this naturally emits tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and causes climate change, and on the other hand, say that we do not want wind turbines and we do not want large photovoltaics. So you think it's possible, is it realistic, is it reasonable to say that we will replace all energy produced from fossil fuels with PV roofs? It is not possible to do this through the networks, perhaps there are no household resources to do so. We will, of course, help them to implement this. We certainly do not guarantee the lowest cost in this way. Of course, photovoltaics as you know even small houses do not differ from larger ones. They only produce energy a day. At night they don't produce. While at night it blows in many regions of Greece. Do you want wind turbines or don't you want them? Do you want us to make use of our country's rich wind potential or do you not want it? Say a clear point of view at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u26	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it's very simple. You have not responded to the issue of Crete and I expect you to say something in your dentistry, and I will then reply to you if necessary. Look, right now we need nature. I will let you know if you do not know - you should know that because of your position - the UN has designated the 2020s - 2030 as a decade of nature restoration. Why, Minister, has the UN defined this decade - the most critical of climate change - as a decade of natural restoration? Because it's the most important thing we have to do. What we have left of nature has to keep it. Do you understand? If we don't, we're lost. We have no chance of facing the climate collapse. Do you understand? If you understand, can you explain to me why you're going massively and install wind turbines in the hearts of the protected areas, in every mountain, in the most indiscreet places? And you're telling me you're gonna pilot some roof projects? Backwards, you should stop every wind turbulence right now, because the RAE, through its approval procedures, violates European and national legislation when it says that I cannot comply with the conditions of the EIA spatial planning, because I do not have any maps, so I approve them without complying with them. Is that possible? How do you accept that? How you accept that the Energy Regulatory Authority grants authorisations without complying with the conditions laid down. We will have to move on massively and massively from the Recovery Fund, not the EUR 60 billion that you give to the havings, the wealthy ones. To be given to a massive "Security Finance". You also make a "I save by house" for fifty thousand homes. One mass for each first residence. With parallel installation of photovoltaics on the roofs and roofs. Do you know what economic recovery will bring with the thousands of small jobs, the self-employed people involved? Real recovery. But of course the revenues will go to the many, not to the five construction projects. That's your problem. That's why you don't go any further. It would protect nature. Wind generators, yeah. You know how? With the agreement of the local society, participatory planning and away from natural ecosystems or roads, routes of migration, etc. You guys just do the right thing backwards. No, in this process, we don't want any wind turbines. With procedures that wind generators enter the heart of nature and cause such damage, no. Stop. Do not destroy nature in the name of climate collapse and certainly not in our name. If you want to do interest services, make them. Do not use the climate collapse to make it. There are solutions. There are solutions that have been reached in other countries and there are solutions that can lead us. As for the frustration to have the dignity to admit that Mera25 has supported the process from the outset. You do it by driving to a social Armageddon that you don't need. We've explained how it's done. You said about the photovoltaics and how the energy will be stored at night. Lignite units can be converted into thermal storage units. I already know he's under investigation. Why don't you move on? Thermal storage means the photovoltaic program on the roofs in all the households that will produce us, without the savings of "I save by House", 33% of the energy it consumes. The savings will be much more stored in the existing network in these lignite plants. Do you understand, Minister? There are solutions. Solutions are blocking service.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u29	I am pleased, Mr President, to acknowledge that our Government is investigating alternative scenarios to make use of even the existing lignite plants, which will be withdrawn, to ultimately serve the purpose of ensuring our country's energy proficiency. Of course, you did not respond if you would like even a windmill to enter Greece. Tell me if there is a European country that succeeds in replacing standard thermal power plants with RES without using wind turbines and without exploiting its wind turbines. We want to do this, of course, always while, first and foremost, we want to protect the environment so that we can deliver it to future generations in the same way and in a better situation than we have received from previous generations. The New Democracy has proved it. Our government has proved it. A few days ago, we announced the definition of areas without routes, the scam mountains and Crete, the White Mountains. There were wind turbines that had been licensed and were located within the perimeter of the deceitful mountains, areas without any route. These will not be able to be built now. This will happen in other areas. In Samothraki, for example, there were empty wind turbines with many megawatts that will not finally settle. In Trikala, in Jannah. And that's why we're doing it? We are the first in Europe to do so. And you know it very well. Because we can demonstrate that we can plan such an energy transition, achieve the rehabilitation of fossil fuels and increase the penetration of renewable energy sources, ensure adequate clean energy for future generations and, of course, protect the environment that is the primary because it hosts us and in which we survive. That's what our government is doing, Mr. President. Anything else you have to suggest we are open to hear. We'll be happy to hear proposals. No blessings and no unbearable criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u30	Will the fourth question under number 306/13-1-2022 by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Finally, research into hydrocarbons in Crete', will be discussed. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, despite the obsession of the three governments, yours, KINAL, SYRIZA, to take us back to the hydrocarbons, the companies after the other are leaving, except for the state-owned ELPEs which obviously do what they do in the Cyprissian are to save the mining project. The companies are leaving. The "REPSOL" which had the continent, part of the Ionian Sea and Ieto-Acarnania, has left. Italy's 'EDISON' has left. The ELPEs in fact left most of the regions and now announced "TOTAL" and "EXXONMOBIL" along with the ELPEs that they would not proceed with seismic surveys south of Crete. Because the deadline for seismic investigations expires we want you to make it clear first of all what "TOTAL", "EXXONMOBIL" and "ELPE south of Crete, and if you will continue, if you will actually give them an extension to the deadline for seismic investigations. We fear that you may give them an extension, although Mr Dendias - your Minister for Foreign Affairs - said it would be a crime to make these seismic investigations because they would turn the Aegean and the Mediterranean into a Gulf of Mexico. I'm talking about the huge accident. At the same time as Mr Mitsotakis had said that it is not seen how mining progressed, we fear that you to save the pretexts will proceed with the seismic investigations with all the damage to biodiversity, to cetaceans. On what pretext? What about Greece getting into the catastrophic mining in the middle of a climate collapse? We want you to be clear. I hope you'll come here and tell us that the mining is over in Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u33	By saying a revised work plan, you are obviously referring to the annual work programme and budget, Mr Colleague, as referred to in Article 5 of Law 4628/201. According to the lease agreements, therefore, the lessor is entitled to request explanations and suggestions for examination in the Technical Advisory Committee on the nature, cost of the works and functions. It also has the possibility to submit a request for an extension from the consortium for the above programme. This cannot, of course, be excluded if it is provided for in the relevant right to the consortium in question. Indeed, the consortium a few days ago tabled the question that you referred to in your question a revised work plan in which you also made your position. This is therefore at the stage of the assessment by the Greek hydrocarbon company. So, right now, we cannot know what it involves. Subsequently, the NSA, i.e. the hydrocarbons company within the purposes of its competence and always in the public interest, will be dealt with in the project and will complete its assessment. I would point out that these lease agreements for areas west of Crete and south-west of Crete have been ratified by Laws 4628/2019 and 4631/2019. Indeed, they were ratified following the results of the international invitations to tender for the granting of a right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Crete. This competition was opened after the adoption by the Government Council for Economic Policy of the Proposal for a Directive on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons of the then Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis. As far as your question is concerned, if we are committed to canceling the twelve lease agreements. I must tell you that, according to the competent authority, the environmental licensing address, the environmental obligations resulting from the relevant legislation are complied with and compliance with the terms and guidelines for environmental protection and monitoring. Since the legality and the conditions of the licences issued and of the rental contracts are respected, that is to say, you understand that it makes it impossible for the contracts to be cancelled without, of course, entailing economic costs for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you say that environmental procedures are being observed. And yet they are not respected. There is no need, you say, for seismic investigations to pass through environmental licensing, because in the CFD that you put in application of the European directive, you forgot to mention seismic research as a part of a need for environmental licensing. And so, you know, you are violating the European directive and you say that these seismic surveys, in the most critical ecosystems, are excluded from environmental licensing. Instead, you have the environmental units and the companies' self-control, without taking proper account of the European Union's obligation to you. You know, now, we are not only the country with most of the infringements of European legislation - and especially of the environment - we are the country of the European Union with most cases of non-compliance with the judgments of the European Court of Justice. We are a deeply anti-European country, as we are serially violating legislation - particularly environmental legislation - and then we do not comply with the court's decisions on compliance with environmental legislation. What are other countries doing? Italy, Croatia, France, Spain, have banned hydrocarbons from mines or are in the prohibition process. The ‘TOTAL’, which is south of Crete, is prohibited from exploring new deposits in the French seas. The REPSOL, which has left, is forbidden to make new mining and to search for new deposits in the Spanish seas. The EMI has had to stop any new extraction in Italy. Not even in the 'EXXON' in the United States allow new mining. We here, you, a backward group of parties, New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, together with a backward group of countries, global backwards, of the neighborhood, other than which you are in adversity and others in cooperation, all threaten each other by war, move forward with the mining of hydrocarbons, even on paper - the intensity comes with the papers and the announcements - to bring the controversies to this, for oil and gas, when they collapsed, because any company really invests in new mining from here and forward will go bankrupt. This is what international economic indicators of companies' viability are saying over a period of 30 years. Look at the oil indicators. That's why companies are backing up because they're on the verge of bankruptcy. You put the ELPEs on the Gulf of Kyparissikos, because it is state and if they go bankrupt you will need to make the biggest rescue of the largest Greek company, along with PPC. How many memos does that mean? Stop your disastrous mining policies for all three parties, but you are now ruling.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u36	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u37	You should be much more careful, Mr Colleague, when you blame our country, Greece, that it is an anti-European country and that we are violating European law and European regulations. Greece is a country that firsts and shares the European vision so that Europe becomes the first climate-neutral continent in 2050. We support all this European effort on the energy transition. We are one of the very few countries that moved forward very quickly, even before this European vision was announced, the frustration and withdrawal of polluting special units. So I would really ask you to be much more careful when you blame our country and within the Greek Parliament, when, from all the European leaders and from all the ministers in the Councils of Ministers, of Ministers, of Energy and Environment, Greece is aware of the fact that it is taking the lead in the energy transition. I would therefore like to tell you how we do what we do according to the law, according to Greek law and according to European law. For example, the environmental licensing address with its 1-6-2021 request and documents to the NSA suggest the adoption of the environmental action plan, both for the marine geophysical research programme in the region west of Crete and south-west of Crete. According to the above-mentioned recommendations of the competent authority, it is firstly noted that both environmental action plans have focused on achieving the objectives set for the protection and management of the environment by selecting the best geophysical method of characterising the presence of hydrocarbon geologic structures in order to cause the least possible disruption of the functions of the marine environment in relation to, first, the quality of marine waters, second, bottom sediment and third, the surface layer of the seabed. Also, of course, the presence of protected marine species, in particular regarding the populations of marine mammals and cetaceans. Both Action Plans include detailed recording, imaging and adequate analysis of the existing state of the environment in the marine space of the affected area of geophysical research, with particular emphasis on the ecological and chemical quality of the marine environment in the surface layer of the bottom. In view of the above, I think that once again it is shown that we have exhausted all the practices, international practices and technologies in order to protect the marine area in which these investigations are to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u38	We now come to the question and application number 1140/41/12-11-2021 of the petitions and questions (transposition) by MP B'Thessaloniki of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: 'No willingness on the part of the Government to take risk compensation measures on the electricity market'. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning and good week. Minister, I don't know if I should start by congratulating you on another negative first. And in January 2022 Greece has the most expensive price of wholesale energy in Europe. RAE figures today give EUR 227.3. Can you bear another negative lead on your CV, Mr. Screka? Consumers in Greece do not stand, however. They can't stand the energy policy of your own government. We have a question from November 12th, unanswered on energy issues, while all consumers, all Greek industry, are suffering from your own energy strategy with an unprecedented climate of accuracy, you have not answered for three months. I think that is not right either to the House or to the Greek society and to the economy. You have an energy crisis to which you have led Greece, which is why we are first in Europe - it is not just exogenous. No one believes you when the accounts come because they see the very great cost, which is due accounts and energy poverty. The industry has informed you that it will close its production in early January. Farmers know that they cannot start the new growing season and five months after the Mitsotakis announcement in the report, you have not succeeded in making a ministerial decision, the ministerial decision for professionals, industry and farmers. You have gone through three amendments - and the eyebrows are not up - but you have not even made a ministerial decision and the farmers in your region know it and the municipalities know it. The Mayor of Trikkai, the president of the CEDC didn't inform you? Do not pretend, Mr Skreka, we know much better than you are. It is not serious, however, that the government tells Parliament in the debate on the proposal for distrust that an energy revolution is taking place in Greece that has ensured affordable and stable prices for households and businesses. But where do you live? Can't you at least keep a level of seriousness? Don't you understand that you're being exposed and exposed to our country? At least be serious because you're multiplying insecurity! What affordable prices? Are three-fold accounts available? What constant values does the adjustment clause go up every month? Consumers must put their hands in the pocket because of your choices, Mr Skreka and the entire government, and they know very well that, while SYRIZA was a government, despite the bankruptcy you have brought us, despite the memoranda, despite your turbulent domestic and your pressures, the cost of electricity has not increased even 1 euro. On the contrary, we had a half-weighted reduction of 12%. So let's get this straight. PPC's invoices increased with the choice of Mitsotakis Government. Mr. Hatzidakis, intervening in the market, uploaded the invoices on 1 September 2019. You have been miserable as a government throughout 2020, when PPC sold four times the system limit value. You put up a cartel, price manipulation. The Greek industry says it's not SYRIZA's saying it. You have created a very large cost in the balancing market. Do I see here next week 41,79 euros for MWh? And you let this happen, and you and the regulators do nothing? You have clear, great responsibility for unjustified profits. The university says it, SYRIZA doesn't say it. There are downstream profits in the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u40	The question, ask the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u41	You have an incorrect energy strategy, where there is no market control and no forward contracts. So the question, Mr Screka, is why Greece is the only perhaps country in Europe that does not have forward contracts. Why didn't you when SYRIZA warned when he opened the Target Model? Other Minister, other government. In other countries a large proportion of the consumer account is determined by fixed contracts and a small one from the day-to-day market. So, from now on, so that the Minister can see it and answer us, the table that gives Greece the first place with 100% market dependence, while in the rest of the countries - France 29%, Germany 29%, the Netherlands 25% - the market is more stable and safer for consumers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Femelle, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u43	The question, therefore, is why you two and a half years ago, despite the labels of everyone, started Target Model and the stock exchange without this basic instrument.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Femelle, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President, at least to start with and I will come back to the second later.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u46	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u47	I understand the criticism of the government by a member of the opposition about what he thinks should be done and not done, who have, of course, done much more and I will analyse them, but I do not understand the criticism of the government of something that they themselves were in the government that they had predefined and designed. Mr. Comrade, Mr. Famele, who designed the Target Model in the country? The New Democracy or your government and your Minister, Mr. Stathakis? When did the design start and when did implementation begin? Is it true that it started two years before you left before the Greek people judged you and left the government? We received a model that you, Mr Colleague, planned, had his problems and we are trying to solve them. In the country, therefore, I will tell you that in the first half of 2021, Mr Colleague, retail electricity prices in households were 33% below Europe's average. Yeah, we've got raises. Is it the Greek Government's fault, Mr. Colleague, for the increases we have in electricity? Is it not because of an increase in the price of gas in Europe and on the planet as a whole? Has it not spread - almost seven times - the gas cost, from which electricity is produced and has this also ejected the electricity prices to the heights? What was the price, Mr Colleague, when you were saying that the electricity price was stable in the country when you ruled? Tell me a little, what was the price in the oil barrel, and how much was the price of gas then? And why then did PPC not proceed to a very large reduction in energy prices, when we had much lower prices and oil and gas than we have now? So don't try to make fun of the world, and I wonder why you're trying to twist what I said in my speech. What did I say? I said that there are two ways of dealing with this big problem. The first is about the short-term support of households and businesses. You're saying we haven't answered you about what we're gonna do. But we've already done it, Mr. Famele. We have allocated EUR 1.7 billion to support households and businesses since 1 January. When we took measures in September 2021, Mr Famele, you still did not realize that there would be an energy crisis. What's your proposal? What was your proposal, by Mr. Tsipras, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? No suggestion had been made! We came, we took concrete measures, we started subsidising with a few euros, with 9 euros a month, the household, and we came to subsidise it with 50 euros a month in December, and we continue for as long as the crisis lasts. Do we absorb 100% of the valuation? Oh, no. Can you suggest a way to absorb 100% of the valuation? Greece is the country that, depending on the population and its economic size, has made most of the money to support households. Of course, with the measures we have, we cannot absorb 100% of this explosive increase that has come from - unfortunately - a huge international crisis that we have not seen in the last fifty years when you have had the lowest oil and gas prices in recent years, Mr Famele. That's the reality. So don't try to make fun of yourself. I would like to say this: tell us what you propose, what you would do. Would you abolish the excise duty on natural gas and electricity? Because so far you have said that. We give EUR 40 a subsidy per MWh heater in natural gas and the excise duty is only EUR 1. We give 40 euros and you would give 1 euros. Is that the way to deal with the crisis, the energy crisis? We give EUR 140 and 180 to households a month, and you would give MWh five, because this is the special tax on electricity. So don't fool people! I said, therefore, that the first way is with short-term support, electricity and gas subsidies as far as possible, and Greece gives most of any other Member State. The second is, however, a lasting solution. Who's that? Self-consumption, production, the possibility of building a means of production, a photovoltaic on the roof, the consumer and self-consuming. That is what I said in order to do, we are promoting a very ambitious programme, and that is what I described as an energy revolution, which ensures affordable prices. Of course it hasn't happened yet. Don't twist what I said! I said that when this is done, when all we do is done, we will have much lower, very affordable and very stable energy prices for both households and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u48	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Screka, other words to be loved! You didn't say anything about the truck. Do you want me to tell you what happened on SYRIZA? We made the law for the energy communities, two and a half years you've frozen him. Shame on you! We did the competitive procedures for the RES. That's how electricity prices go down. But they're coming up with you. Obviously, we started planning for the Target Model, ensuring public control on the networks. You destroyed it, sold out a year and a half when you were government, we told Mr Hatzidakis that he could not start the Target Model market without regulation, without intent, and you did not hear us because we proposed these, and there is parliamentary control. So let's go to the specifics. You did not tell us why you were first in Europe. It's increased natural gas. Why are you first in Europe asking you? You want me to tell you about your measures? For the measures? What measures? The subsidisation of accuracy? Yes, you get money from the climate bill and you give it to those who increase prices, because suppliers and producers are paid. You have not downloaded any prices for the industry. You have not downloaded any prices for farmers. You haven't made the ministerial decision. However, I asked you in particular: a ministerial decision is awaiting farmers, professionals and municipalities from September, as Mr Mitsotakis said in the report. He talked about 80% coverage of accuracy costs and you disproved him next week. Haven't you two even consulted each other and made us smart? But we are going to the main problems of the market. First, you have a market without control. We have pointed this out to you and Mr Capros referred to a conference that we were both at 39% of heaven downstream profits in September, and so there was a great increase in the adjustment clause. Secondly, you have a disastrous energy strategy. Do you want me to remind you of the recent report by the Commission's Energy Directorate-General of the third quarter of 2021, which says that, firstly, the average gas prices in Greece do not comply with the high prices in electricity? Mr President, I will table the map for Europe, which says that while gas has not increased in our country for the period of the third quarter, electricity has increased and gas has been up to EUR 31 to EUR 32, electricity has gone from EUR 102 to EUR 135 in September. Don't you know that, Mr. Screka? Do you want me to tell you that the consumption of gas in Greece increased by 12%, while in Europe it fell by 10%? Or did the Netherlands reduce electricity dependence on gas and Greece by 49%? And you know why? Why did you make the deal of liberation, because you agreed with private individuals to make gas electricity at the expense of our country's interests and you committed the country to natural gas. And the Commission says so, SYRIZA doesn't say so and I'll testify. That is exactly what the Greek industry says, and I shall put that down. Prices are not in line with gas prices. That's what the Greek industry says, Mr. Screka, I'll testify. Do you want me to tell you about the cartel that exists in Greece? I shall therefore present the Greek industry's information to RAE about manipulation of energy prices in Greece. It runs a energy cartel in which PPC participates on your own responsibility, Mr. Skreka. And that is a problem which is a proposal from the SYRIZA that you have not implemented. Do you want me to talk to you about the forward market again? Not only does SYRIZA say so, the Greek industry also says so. You don't have a forward market. I asked you a question. I deposited the map and the painting. Why does Greece not have a forward market so that we have energy prices dependent on fixed contracts? You didn't answer that either. Do you want me to tell you what the Energy Regulatory Authority says? Mr President, the mockery goes too far in here. Mr. Screka, SYRIZA doesn't say it. The chairman, then, of the Energy Regulatory Authority - and I will table this last week - announced that in Greece the problems are the high involvement of gas, the total absence of bilateral contracts, the lack of control over producers and managers and their responsibilities. Mr. Screka, who are you kidding? You are first in Europe in terms of the accuracy of the current.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Famelle, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u51	Do you want me to tell you how a store in Thessaloniki that has a current of EUR 260 and has come after your subsidies an additional cost of EUR 900? How's he gonna get through it, Mr. Screka, you said you supported the market? In homes with the bills of 60 and 50 euros the extra costs after subsidies are 150 euros, because you do not control the market...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Femmelle, please. We have twenty-five questions. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u53	Because while all this is done, the Competition Committee tells us that you have had a working party to look into the matter. So I think, Mr Skreka, that the responsibilities are clear and are you. And it seems that the energy sector is the main area for which this government must leave as soon as possible, because you are a disastrous government, Mr Screka, and you are not being fooled. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u54	Have you realised that we have twenty-six questions? If everyone's speaking here, it can't be. Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u55	The longer you talk and the more inaccurate you say that doesn't mean you convince anyone. I would very much ask you to bring us a PPC account which, on behalf of EUR 70, has paid extra costs to the consumer in the household of EUR 150. In other words, instead of EUR 70, he paid EUR 230 or EUR 220. I would ask you very much to see a household account and to discuss it in order to demonstrate the honesty and truthfulness of what you are saying. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u56	Here, I got him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u57	We'll see later. Secondly, would you tell me a little bit about building a gas plant that produces electricity all the time we've taken over? Any natural gas plants producing electricity were operating the same on your own days, Mr. Famele. Nothing's changed. Same thing is, you know, barely. The only thing that has changed is that more renewable energy has entered the electricity mix of our country, much more. You said you wanted to promote RES and energy communities. Tell me a little how many MW belonging to energy communities had been electricityed for your day and how many for our day? In 2021 we exceeded 1 GW of new installed RES in our country. That's what we've done. And we did a study with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and found that in December Greece was indeed the most expensive in Europe. At the level of the year, Italy is the most expensive thing to say, Mr President. Italy with a much more mature market, with a much more mature model of determination of electricity, with its own gas production at a rate, of course, was more expensive at year-to-year level than Greece, a Greece that had a new Target Model, a new mechanism for the determination of electricity without forward products, because you had not done what you had to do when you were planning it, and we are trying to do it now. That's the truth, and you know it very well. So tell me, what has changed with regard to electricity generation? Nothing, more RES has been introduced. Even if these RES hadn't entered, because we were doing a study with the Aristotle University we would have 100 euros more expensive wholesale price in December in our country. If we had replaced the RES with a lignite plant we would have more expensive electricity in December, Mr Famele, than the one we had even though it was accurate and we are not happy about it. We're not happy, because that's what we've received and we're trying to fix it. And we'll fix it and ensure affordable prices. Now I'm going to talk about business. It's very simple. From 1 January Greece is the only country in Europe that has been authorised by the Competition Committee to support and cover 50% of the costs of increasing electricity in companies from the very small to the very large. This hug with the Industries Association announcements I don't understand. You've had a lot of love lately. To ask, is there another country that thus supports the country's production base? Is there another country in Europe that absorbs 50% of the cost increase without having nuclear plants, such as France, without having too much hydroelectric power, as is the case with Norway and Denmark? Is there another country that makes use of and has so much money to support the entire production base from the very small business, from the professional of Thessaloniki and not just Thessaloniki and the Trikalons and Orestiada and all of Greece to the very large industry? There's no, Mr. Femmelle, and you know that very well. All you have to do is identify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u58	We move on to Mr Skreka's last question, to the third with number 1705-6-12-2021, question (transposition) of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP B'Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will the government implement the anachronistic burial end to Law 4819/2021, promoting the burning of waste and drugizing recycling?' Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Screka, I need to read to you the household account you've lived with.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u60	PPC account?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u61	I'll tell you. Household account 60 euros current, 208 LFC charge, discounts from subsidies 49...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Femmelle, you're gonna waste time on the new question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u63	Total energy value 220.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u64	PPC account?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u65	Current account, Mr. Screka. Don't play games. A power account, and I told you it's on the subsidisation. Now let's go to the question about the burial fee. There is a written question, Mr Screka, from the 6th of December that you did not answer either. And the previous day you did not tell us why you did not answer it and the information I requested you did not submit. And I say, Mr President, that because in the previous question you have not tabled documents, it will go to the House later. The question therefore is a written question submitted on 6 December, which is a crucial issue for self-government, the application of the burial fee, which is as follows. The SYRIZA has completed the institutional framework on waste management and pricing policy. Ministerial decisions had been made and, since 1-1-2020, an invoicing policy would have been implemented, which would have been discounts for recycling municipalities, so incentives. In fact, there was a discount on these issues on the circular economy contribution, 35% if you have made an environmentally licensed unit, 70% if your circular economy unit is built and 100% if it works. So you are now coming to abolish discounts and this support, this encouragement to the municipalities to make modern units of cyclical economy, and you are imposing the burial fee, even though we had already launched the funding to move the projects everywhere in your area and in the area of Thessaloniki and everywhere. So now the New Democracy is coming to abolish a reform which the CEDEFOP and the Industry Association agreed on in the circular economy forum, all the branches and we made an agreement that was approved by the European Union and canceled such an agreement by transferring excessive costs, which are probably more than EUR 100 million to all municipalities, hypocritically saying that this is due to the Recovery Fund. Let's get this straight, 'cause I'm afraid that's what you're gonna say. Well, Mr President, it is not the country's commitment to Europe to the burial fee, because Europe had agreed to prevent burial by means of a stimulus for the recycling done by SYRIZA. Don't lie to the municipalities. Don't lie to the citizens. It's not a commitment from the country. You put it as a term in the Recovery Fund, but at the same time you have set a condition for recycling incentives. So you implement part of your commitment to the detriment of the municipalities without urging the recycling and without all the reliances that the legislated, finalised by a ministerial decision on pricing policy. You do not go ahead with recycling at the same time and the money of these municipalities you do not give them, Mr. Screka. You are taking them to the EEAN, the sinner EEAN, who is linked to scandals now with an opaque management again at the expense of the municipalities. So recycling is not progressing and you are imposing a very big raisin. You know and the CEDEFOP has told you that it is contrary. I hear that you will now be setting up a working group, while you have voted for it six months. I am listening, you will tell us, while you have voted for it six months, and all the self-government now is across the street and the selfgovernment that has been supported by you. So, Mr. Screka, the question is, will you also impose a raisin that supports combustion at the expense of recycling? To understand what government we have, how green you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u66	Good. Clearly the question will be answered by the Minister. Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u67	First of all, I would like to ask you very much about the previous one you said, namely - and you will see the Minutes - on behalf of PPC, which came from EUR 70. I have a PPC account that is 70 euros and had 60 discounts, PPC and state subsidies. I'm saying that to make it clear. Please prove what you say if they stand and have a basis of honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u68	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u69	On that occasion, Mr President, I would ask the honourable Member very much to tell us, in other words, five years when SYRIZA has ruled how much our country's recycling has increased! Five years, Mr President! Five years, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has ruled. There was a minister in charge. How much has this waste recycling increased in our country? 'Cause I remember some trash mountains on some islands - not to say them again and again. Tourists came in the summer, with 40 - 45 degrees Celsius and there were garbage mountains! The smell from the trash would reach the plane before it even lands! Is that what we received from SYRIZA and they come here and talk to and prosecute the government? How many units did they start in SYRIZA's day? How many waste management plants were started by SYRIZA, planned, auctioned and completed? A SYRIZA started designing, auctioning, being a contractor, starting construction and running? Because I remember many units that, while they had started, stopped and relaunched PPP procedures, on Northern Greece and the others. You know them very well, Mr. Comrade. So don’t talk and don’t give up on the government trying to correct what it has received. Are we satisfied with the way we manage the waste in our country? Oh, no. And we need to make huge progress, if we want to get here not to be one of the first, but to catch up to the European average. But we do. There are more than eighteen waste management factories in our country. We received a design for Attica that didn't exist. He was impracticable and we're trying to fix him. And all that you know is that it's not unfortunately from one moment to the next, but we're trying to make it much faster than what we received when you were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to invoke your own self-government history. Minister, you said nothing about the burial ending. We're talking about a burial fee, a raisin over 100 million euros. You didn't say anything. You said about the story. My story reminds me that, on my father's origin, at Elias Tower, the garbage was above the first floor when SYRIZA took over and we solved the problem. Do you want to go back this far? I remember them very well, because I negotiated the PPP there, which even went down to 50% of the price you had in the auction, the excellent government of Samara - Venizelos. I also want to tell you about the eighteen factories that you say you are going on, all this started in SYRIZA: both legislation and funding and studies. You said now that it is not all from day one to day and you ask me if we are done in two or three years and studies and auctions and planning. Oh, no. And the design we made the recycling law, and the studies we commissioned, and many auctions took place. I personally went to the auction in Alexandroupolis. So don't hide these. We know very well what's going on. Unfortunately, we know better than you, because one problem you have in the Ministry is that you do not know the problems. As you do in energy, you do the same in garbage. In recycling, then, we have a delay in Greece. Two and a half years, you're going backwards, scandals. You approve a management system, which your services said you did not get the goals and approved by a political decision! Don't scratch on the cup of chop. We know. A recycling system shall be financed simultaneously by the debtors and consumers, by the EDPS and by the ‘Three’. A triple source of funding for the same system that services say it doesn't get the targets? Let's be serious. Don't open this. On the end of burial, do you want to speak specifically? There was legislation completed by SYRIZA, a ministerial decision, which said how the municipalities would be mobilised and paid less by recycling, how would they be mobilised, when they are spaced, licensed and possibly under construction, in the circular economy factories - why do you not go ahead? - which covered the necessary conditions that Europe has put in Greece, which also covered the EC's warnings and we were in agreement with the Commissioner, because I personally submitted to Europe the strategic circular economy of Greece. This was all over SYRIZA, don't hide it! Today you are burdening the municipalities with the responsibilities of the state, while you have taken responsibility for the combustion plants. Another unacceptable! So the municipalities will be judged and they will have a penalty, while the power for the combustion plants has been taken by you and by the Secretary-General I am hearing that many treatment plants are being modified to produce waste fuel? Instead of making products of circular economy, you make expensive factories with money that Europe gives us to produce primary fuel to be a one-way path after Greece. These are tragically done in the management of waste along with scandals and you do not finance, you do not support separate collection. Are you going to take 100 million and over the municipalities at this critical moment to give them to the opaque EOM to manage them for the benefit of whose, blue children, Mr. Screka? Isn't the remoula and the pit made in Greece under the responsibility of your Government no longer enough? Do you still want a gorge? You guys talking about SYRIZA's rags, saying it's the end of a plastic bag. which you extended and which we support as well as such innovations? So you were a liar while we were in the government! So, Mr President, I want to make this clear. There is a completely opaque way of managing this fee. There is an incorrect environmental component, i.e. this cannot be linked to incentives for recycling and to incentives for plants. So the Greek Waste Company is coming today, involving too many self-government officials, and asks you to return to SYRIZA's legislation. So there is documentation, scientific, self-government and economics, which has a solution, Mr President, because it was complete and designed, and I and Mr. Haritsis had signed the Ministerial Implementation Decision. The municipalities would have a penalty if there were a quantity of landfill going back to the municipalities, Mr President, to be recycled and controlled by the Green Fund. It wouldn't be the state's absence. So just spices and then burning and scandals in recycling? This will remain from your story, Mr Skreka, and I have informed you personally about the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Can I ask you something, Mr. Comrade? You spoke of a opaque EEAN and of a system that was adopted, and it did not work. You were the Minister responsible for SYRIZA. SYRIZA was five years in government. Can you tell me one case where EEAN removed permission from a system that didn't catch the targets? I'm waiting for you to tell me. Five years you have ruled and you have not removed a single licence from a system that has not caught the targets, even what you are accusing of not catching the targets!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u74	We're talking about you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u75	We, Mr Colleague, did something else, therefore, after receiving a mess, a salt of you, where nothing was done. And of course, we are not going to return to the legislation of anything, since nothing has happened and you have done nothing and you have achieved absolutely nothing and recycling has not increased and we have filled trash in the streets. So we did something else. We changed the legislation of SYRIZA and set a specific way and methodology and system to measure the performance of the management systems, alternative management and since they do not achieve the specific objectives anymore, we have specific penalties and specific ways to remove the license, always with the logic of compliance and support, to achieve the recycling targets and not with the logic of punishment that never comes, that never came from the punishment on your day! For the end of burial, the end of burial, Mr Colleague, will come in because twenty-seven of the twenty-seven Member States of Europe have a burial end, multiple of which we are starting and establishing, because we must also give a transitional period. What is the only state of the twenty-seven that it has not established and does not apply burial fee? Greece. So that is what we will do. Revenues will be returned to the municipalities and those most in need of their goals. We have identified it, and we expressly mention it in the law. That's what we want to do. There are also the motives, there are the counter-incentives. At some point in this country we must all realize that all the parties involved and, of course, the central state and also the local government that together we must do something to change this crime, the disgrace that is being done with waste management, which is the last country in Europe, in terms of recycling! We have 20% recycling and we will have 80% of waste when it has to reach 50% and some countries have reached 10%. That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u76	Good. We are now entering a seven-way circle of questions concerning the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The questions will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Ploris, who is present. The first is the sixth under number 333/21-1-2022, a top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government plans to privatise the ESS at the heart of the pandemic." Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I read your statements from the ERT: 'We should see which hospital will have the central services and the regional hospitals, that is, the ones that are around twenty-five kilometers, keep what is necessary'. The question is whether your conclusion to the pandemic, Minister, is that we are being spared by the hospitals. You then proceed to a model that, from what we understand, you use in Kosani, western Macedonia, about how they close - they are reaped and become health centers in practice - city hospitals and in the center of the region you have the main hospital. To understand, in Kastoria or in another district, in Drama, who were so affected by the coronary, is their hospital abundant? "Children's Hospital" Pentelis over? What hospitals do they have? I have one more question. With a hundred people lost a day, do you and Mrs. Ganga have time to plan the new little RS? Here you do not find time to do the necessary intakes to do the necessary equipment. What, of course, does this study say to us? That the PPPs are appropriate. Where are they appropriate? In medical equipment, specialized services facilities and the creation of new hospitals. I'm guessing renovation. So, what is deception in the middle of COVID leads to individuals entering exactly what has not been done, that has to be done to save lives? So we lost thousands of our fellow people, why didn't you boost health, get private people into health? Is that all?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u79	Mr Arsenis, exactly what you said, exactly what you described now, is out of the reality of the government's intentions. And I'll report one by one. First of all, because there is a great deal of talk about the new ESS and that we want to deceive it, we are the government that has guaranteed 1.5 billion from the Health Recovery Fund. And there are already program contracts with the National Health System for the money that the hospitals will get. We therefore have 320 million euros to go to hospitals, precisely to strengthen them. It is only money for infrastructure, 80 million of which are for medical equipment. And since we want medical equipment to be done with public-private partnerships, as has been done everywhere, and no one is opposed, because the participation of the Greek public will be at 30% in fact, we will ensure 250 million to go to medical equipment in hospitals. The rest is building infrastructure. We have ensured 220 million for primary care and, at the same time, there are autonomous projects such as "Save" with 32 million, "Papanikolaou" in Thessaloniki, which show that the government's intention is to strengthen all hospitals. And we'll see the difference of the new ERR how it'll be shaped, because for the first time, they'll throw so much money into infrastructure and medical equipment in primary and secondary care. With regard to the ESS Charter, a map is actually being drawn up. Let us make something clear, Mr President, because I also know your sensitivity. Because as Minister of Health Nikitas Kaklamanis was one of the people who had laid foundations for strengthening the ESS. There is no sanitary structure to close down. Let's get this straight, so you can stop here and get people misinformed. And you put the "Children's Hospital" of Pentelis, Mr Arsenis, which will only work again as it operated. And because there's a series of questions, if you want to stay and listen to them, because you're saying a series of inaccuracies, that you're going to close. Health structures aren't shutting down. It is obvious, however, that in the new map we will see exactly how these structures should be shaped as hospitals, as secondary structures. And let's see if you have to keep two clinics across or have some hospitals and some clinics the other, to have a targeting. So our whole logic is to support the National Health System. With regard to the PPPs, it is in our programme and of course there will be PPPs. And I believe that through PPP the National Health System is being strengthened, because practices are being taken from the private sector, mainly in a piece of medical equipment, in a piece of exams, in part and even renovations, for which you said, the Greek citizen is ultimately benefiting. So, you're giving me the opportunity today - and we're going to continue - to tell you the whole program. But tell me, what do you have to say about this government that wants to take down the ESS and ensures 650 million buildings or infrastructure for RIS and primary care, which the Greek patient will see immediately tomorrow morning? Because the RRF is running at speeds, it has already begun and we will have full integration within two and a half years. So there, you'll see the picture of the whole ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u80	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I read other points of your statement: "When there is a hospital that provides all services, which are upgraded, there is no change to the subject. From there, we should see which hospital has the central services and the regional services, which are twenty-five kilometers away, to keep what is necessary." You are clear. You're telling us here that, yes, we're not gonna shut it down, but see who's staying for primary school and what's going to be secondary. That's what you're telling us. You tell us that for the "Children's Hospital" Pentelis I lie when I say you want to close it, but see what its role will be. That's what you're telling us. You want to tell us that right now in the middle of our pandemic with almost a hundred people's losses, you have time to think about which hospitals you're going to close? Is that possible? And what hospitals are you going to lower them, because they don't need it because they're in twenty to thirty-three thousand miles away? Is that possible? And what are you telling us? "But we will do PPPs, bring private individuals and give so much money, 80 million medical equipment." I would remind you that for what is given by this equipment via PPP it will be paid rent by the public system, it will increase fixed costs. Did the House, with 8 million, Mr. President, make forty meth beds?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u82	Fifty are the beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u83	Even better, Mr President. So with 160 million you could have done a thousand IF beds. Do you understand? And now you're telling me that for 80 million people you're gonna put private people in? You're saying no one's against the PPPs. Me personally and Mera25 are against. Hold that, please. If the rest of the parties have not clarified their position, I also call on them to clarify their position. You also said that you would give 32 million to the Salvation and so on, compared to what? Are we going to put private people to health for this money, when the costs allocated to dealing with COVID are multiple? We could have given a fraction of this money to avoid lockdowns that led to losses of money in the economy over 120 million a day. We call on you now, because it is not clear and visible what is going to happen with public health, to substantially strengthen with equipment and personnel the public hospitals, before the Ciodra studies give us thousands more people who are losing for no reason. I urge you to stop working the pandemic for private people to enter the health. We need more hospitals and no less. And I speak from a constituency that does not have its own children, as does the largest part of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u85	I really couldn't understand in your dentistry exactly what part the criticism is. I told you that at the moment there are 650 million. These are building things. It's eighty million machines. Wherever they have to enter private individuals, they'll have to put 70%. So if all the machines go with the 80s, it means they'll show up private individuals who'll put up 160 million and the total medical equipment will be 240. And obviously these are practices that exist everywhere. I do not think there will be any criticism from the other parties about the equipment that is being applied everywhere. There are times when you go and take the machine directly because that's how you judge and get out. And of course there are cases where you make it a partnership or there are cases where you make it leasing and obviously someone will put 160 million and there will be a way to pay the service you get. The point is, however, that hospitals will have 240 million medical equipment. All that money in the National Health System is going. The map does not make sense to close hospitals. If you see the whole hospitals are located to get money from the Recovery Fund. However, as far as the provision of services is concerned, you are once again distorting. Am I saying somewhere the secondarys are going to be primary? Am I saying in that statement anything? Of course, they're necessary in a hospital structure. But if I can have a flagship in front of, as it is, doing all the incidents and from there, doing the dispersion in others so that I don't have hospital services separately weak and ultimately unsecured hospitals, I'm sorry, but that means just that we're thinking about the National Health System. Our overall philosophy begins in different stages. The first stage is that we put in a clear way the preventive tests and put them at a level that is combined with digitalisation and the digital map so that we can see what the population is like. We're coming to do the first degree with the bill that's coming. There are the TEMPUS that bind the country and continue. And there will be another sixty that will be served at the moment with the notices that are being made. At the same time, we also have 220 million from the Recovery Fund for the primary school which will go to health centres and the connections that need to be made. We're coming to secondary school. In secondary schools, there is the health map that has already been done, and it will be done in full consultation, and we will see all these secondary structures that we have how we will use them in the best possible way and by strengthening them with too much money that they come. We are now leading to a holistic process. It is precisely because the pandemic has shown problems which exist and were problems - we have discussed them many times - and the absence of primary school. So this is in very simple terms a road map and EOPY - which is now ready for the next few days, not more than fifteen, twenty days, will have come out in consultation - as a purchaser of service by individuals. And then I should like to see you here, here, those who are criticising private interests, when we come and set strict quality indicators, so that there is no dispersal of the EEAH's money into the 20-year machines currently in existence in the private sector, if you support them. So this is the overall philosophy of all programming that is aimed at upgrading the ERC. The new ESS will be an upgraded ESS in line with the patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u86	We move to the first 1550/29-11-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Phytiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Inactive and non-functional ICM beds. at the General Hospital of Lamia’. Here you go, Mr. Saraciotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start the question by saying that despite the fact that since the outbreak of the pandemic and then I have tabled a series of questions to the Ministry of Health, it is the first time that Minister comes to answer either by living or by writing. It is really unprecedented that the citizens of Phiotida from the head of the Ministry of Health and all the questions were really positive for action that has to be taken in order not to experience the situation that we have experienced. It is not just about the current Minister, it is about his predecessor, but I cannot in any case, Mr President, mention it. And the fact that this question today is about the functioning of the seven intensive treatment unit beds that were given after donation from the "Stavros Niarchos Foundation" and has been submitted since November last year and it is coming today, after several months, the Minister to answer and after having passed a new pandemic wave, which left life loss in Phthiotida, and that I really can't comment on. From there on, the first public announcement of the creation of ITH beds by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation at the Hospital of Lamia was on July 2, 2020. Subsequently, the press release of Mr.Stikora's Minister of Finance was announced on 4 February last year, 2021, that "the seven ICU beds of donation are being delivered today by the Stavros Niarchos Stavros Foundation". Even today, however, these IMPs remain inactive. She hasn't worked any of them. I cannot comment on the fact that in the previous period tens of our fellow citizens in Lamia died in a single bed in the stone building in the COVID section, without being able to fight for their lives in an intensive treatment unit. You are constantly rejoicing, Minister, that you have created hundreds of new IT beds, but the result is what we are experiencing at the General Hospital of Lamia. And I ask you: why a year after the press release announcing that they are "to be delivered to operation today" have not operated seven new MET beds of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation? And the second question: When will they work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u89	Mr Sarakiotis, I imagine that whatever criticism I may make, I cannot be criticised when I come to parliamentary scrutiny. Here's Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Triantafylides. I'm talking about people I've answered two and three times. Today I answer seven questions without making use of any presence. As many times as I use no presence in this House are exclusively for objective reasons I am absent. I don't think there's been another Minister who keeps coming and answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u90	He consensually said it. Don't answer and go ahead. The bell was ringing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u91	You don't answer in writing, but it's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u92	You know that writing is an entire process that reaches the Minister. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u93	Let's not have time for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u94	We shall now go to the particular thing that has been said. First of all, at the General Hospital of Lamia there were eight single beds and there are additional 12 beds for CIVID cases. So there's been an increase of the ITH beds in Lamia and we've got 20 ITH beds. The reality of what you say about beds is that there have been constant efforts in order to be staffed. I see that procedures have been in place since 2020 in order for them to be able to be completed. Most of them could not be paid because they had been found barren. With the call for positions required, they have been called for curator II and have been completed. Those who have been completed are mentioned, but unfortunately most have been declared barren. And because they have been declared barren, and because the subject of ICU beds has already been raised, it is not just the ICU beds, beds and medical equipment. In order to be able to operate an overall IF bed, there should also be medical and nursing staff. This one was barren. At the moment there has been an increase in beds from eight to twenty beds of IF and continuous competitions are coming out. And in the next notices that will be in place, they will also be included in the present positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u95	To make it easier for the conversation. From what I understand, Minister, you have responded that these exist, but the competitions have come out of a barren place, not the seats. Then I wonder: In a provincial town - well they went to, obviously, they needed - you shouldn't be - to be responsible for this - to a hospital of urban center that needs ICUs and which might be easier to go to nurses and doctors and not to accept donations and beds? There is, however, this objective issue that Mr Ploris said. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I have to inform you that from the twelve you've been taking on everything that's been created, the six were conversions from MAH to IM. So we lost six beds from MATH, which were converted into ITH. From there on, in question when they will work, you have not given an answer. As to the fact that twenty-eight doctors have left in 2021 from the General Hospital of Lamia, do you have an answer? Because you're telling us about barren competitions. This is where doctors leave. How are doctors coming? For the fact that for the suspensions they didn't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u97	Why did twenty-eight doctors leave? Retired?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u98	We don't just have retirements. We have departures. They've gone abroad, they've peculiarized themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u99	Okay, but it's not the state's fault. I say 'the state', I do not say 'the government'. The state.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, we had six psychologists at the General Hospital of Lamia, and at the moment we have three. I'm not a doctor, but as far as I know, the first specialist in battle is the pneumonologists. So right now, we have three, and I imagine that the Ministry responsible should look into why we have this shortage. From there on, who will stay at the General Hospital of Lamia or at other hospitals when the complaints we hear are for hospitals of severely ill and doctors' specialties are orthopaedics, gynecologists and various other things, that is, completely outside of the area, when they enter the unit of COVID in the stone building? I will read to you, Minister, the December 2021 news program. A doctor and a resident. Doctor's specialty: General surgeon, orthopaedic, orthopaedic, orthopaedic, gynaecologist, gynaecologist, gynaecologist, orthopaedic, gynaecologist. Mr. Secretary, is a COVID entering an orthopedic unit, a gynecologist, a obstetrician? I would also like to ask you the very simple question: The citizens of Fthiotida are second-class citizens to tire them up for COVID? Do you know how many people have lost their lives in this unit without having a ITH bed? And I would like to ask you this: Is there a member of the government who would have needed a bed in an IF and would have taken him to a bored orthopedic? Would you feel safe? So, people in Phhotida are category two people? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] From that point on, I cannot mention the fact that, when the vaccinations had started - it has many times been the former Minister, Mr Xanthos, on the issue of primary school - private individuals went to help in vaccination at the General Hospital of Lamia and there is a complaint from the president of the Medical Association that they were kicked out because he was displeased with the Ministry of Health. When you send out even the individuals who are unwindingly going to help with the vaccinations, how do you expect anyone to come to help this period at Lamia General Hospital? From there on - why did the President also ask a question - when in the unit, in CT and in radiology, they owe six hundred and twenty-eight days and twenty-eight days for whom a doctor would be involved in such a procedure, to work two years without taking a day off without taking a day off? Do you know this evidence? And, of course, I would also like an answer - if you know - why the twenty-eight doctors left at the Lamia Hospital and what you're doing on these procedures. I would also like an answer to the central question when the seven beds of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will be operated at the General Hospital of Lamia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u102	You referred to a number of global issues. First of all, we have put in all the procedures - and we also have criticism of this - not only in the vaccinations that are law, where they can go to the vaccinations - and, in fact, they are paid with an unpredictable amount - with the possibility of going from public hospitals to private hospitals, with the possibility of entering blocks into public hospitals, with the possibility of entering three months into public hospitals. So, criticism that we've kicked out privately, it doesn't exist. We're calling the privates right now. And not just are we calling on them, but we have also been forced in certain health regions to do doctors' services, which is the last measure when they are no longer able to respond to all other conditions. We were the government that made it possible for the specialties you say to go on duty and to pay 250 euros on the record. So the piece of private individuals we've exhausted it and brought a result. I have to say that it has not brought the desired result, especially in the part that has to do with the on-call section. That is why we have had to go specifically to the 3rd and 4th Health Areas, which were of great intensity, and to service requirements. From there on, it's a real fact. The posts are opened. The problem is that these positions are not covered, and obviously with the staff they are present, in intensive beds, which are lege artis to operate on the basis of the staff they have. I see now that there has been a series of pneumonologist recruitment, which you are saying. You're telling me about the care that's going on. What you're saying was there in meth? Inside IF there is always a specific intensifier. From there on, I would remind you, the decision of the CVS itself since the beginning of the pandemic was, obviously, during the pandemic - because the question was raised as to whether they can do on-calls and doctors of other specialties - because everyone has completed the medicine, when there is a specialist doctor who can do on-calls and doctors of other specialties, because we are starting with the General Medicine that everyone has completed. That is why then there are the special doctors who are moving. But these were the forces that existed in the first phase. All the time, there's an effort to recruit. For those specific ICUs you're talking about, it's still pending. There must be two people who will take the seats so that they can function. You're talking about disdaining the Hospital and Phythiotis. Yeah, but the seven ITH beds there were made, that's where they were chosen to be. Why do you think that's a disgrace? From that point on, all the notices are made and once the posts of this staff are filled, they will be able to function. The coverage, however, at the moment in ICU beds at the General Hospital of Lamia is a cover that operates, Mr. Sarakiotis, in a very good context with the 12 ICU beds and the eight simples.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. The second question, with number 307/13-1-2022, is currently under discussion by the Member of Parliament, Mr Panagiotis, on the question of 'In a very difficult situation, health centres and regional doctors in Eastern Attica'. Mr Skouroliakos' timely question will also be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Ploris. Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, our question has to do with the difficult situation in which health centres and regional hospitals in Eastern Attica are located in a particularly critical period since the beginning of December, where the 'Omicon' mutation sharply increased the number of cases. Primary health units are the first - everyone admits - and a significant pillar, where incidents must be prevented. Many times, in fact, they decongested the hospitals, taking care of some incidents on the spot. The health centres of eastern Attica, and in particular the Centre for the Health of Calivias, the Rafina Health Centre and the Cadriditi Health Centre, are the CIVID-19 reference centres for the wider region. These hours, indeed, endurance is tested, because there is no appropriate nursing and medical staff. They urgently need staffing. Of course, there have also been letters from the mayors of Saronic and Rafina, who urgently demanded that this case be moved forward. So, because health is not a product and because there is an urgent need for direct staffing to doctors and nursing staff of the units I mentioned in the East Attica - not only those three who are reporting centres COVID - we ask you what you intend to do both as Minister and the administration of the 1st Health Region, so that the health centres in Eastern Attica can be directed directly by medical and nursing personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u106	Mr Papoutsis, indeed a wider problem, which was also a pandemic problem, was the operation of all health centres and primary care centres, precisely because most of the forces were in support of the National Health System on the one hand and, on the other, the primaryity itself took a very heavy burden on the vaccination coverage. That is why, in fact, it is also a fact that primary care in our country has had a number of problems. In other words, whatever attempts have been made since 2014, it has in fact not been possible to create a good primary care tissue and the philosophy it needs, not only with health centres or TOMY, but also with the existence of the physician, the so-called “family doctor”. With regard to the issues you mention in the region that concerns you, from the information I have received to the Rafina Health Center, fourteen recruits - I refer to medical assistants - in Koropi two, in Kalyvi three, in Kalybia, in the Health Centre of Kadriditi five, in Nea Makri six, in spas four, five in Markopoulos and one in Lavrio. In total, therefore, there were between 2020 and the end of 2021, forty people in medical staff, and respectively there were forty-six people in nursery staff and twenty-nine other staff. What's the reality? The reality is, therefore, that a great effort has been made to support this, which is with specific figures which are reflected. But what you're talking about is true. That is, there is during the pandemic and a great increase in attendance to at least one of these specific health centres, precisely because the citizens were going when they had any problems, especially when they were accompanied by COVID in these health centres. You know that much better than I do because of your residence. They are health centres which especially in summer months serve far more citizens than the volume of citizens they serve in a normal context. So the forecasts we have are that there will also be provision for these health centres in order to have the best possible staffing that is being done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you told me you hired doctors in these health centers. You have hired doctors in these health centers after literally emptied them - let me this direct expression - by nurses and medical staff, transferring them to the large hospitals to help because you refuse as government to make permanent recruitments to doctors, nurses and other specialists, technicians and others, who need hospitals. The California Health Center, for example, received it with four doctors in 2015 and delivered it with thirty-two. On COVID, you emptied it and hired two or three. Look, we lose a small village every day. Unfortunately, we have a hundred deaths. Attica conquers the negative prototype in cases, with most daily in the East Attica region. At the same time, reactions are causing your decision - and other colleagues have said - to close the Penteli Paediatric Hospital and make it a COVID Reference Center. This hospital, the Pentelis Paediatric Hospital, serves the half of Athens' urban complex, all of the north Athens, the eastern Attica, the western Attica, even Boeotia and Evia. And you want to close it! We are also concerned about what we are reading that you are moving forward with a plan to dissolve the public health system. We have learned that the Deputy Minister held a meeting with the MP doctors of your party, the New Democracy and informed them that this system of “cob and radius” is being prepared, degrading most hospitals and strengthening one. Sixty - three hospitals are at Maximus’ mercy right now! They're in danger of being degraded with this plan! Of course, with the mobilisations and the reaction of doctors and citizens, you have backed up and thought about it. Forget it, Minister! Forget about this hospital! They need all hospitals, not as rays, but as centers really dynamic! There is a long list of citizens who want to do the test at the health centres in Eastern Attica. The information says there is currently a wait of six hundred fellow citizens. Everyone is asking for the staff - even the Lavrio Labour Centre - of these health centres. They ask for free and mass tests of workers in industrial areas, such as the Coropio industrial area. They ask for the dilution of the school departments from the twenty-five and thirty that exist inside. Minister, your government is hostile to the public health system. However, it is very bad at the moment when we are here with COVID to treat the public health system in this way. Public hospitals are keeping the population up in this pandemic and you must support them, but also health structures, health centres in eastern Attica and not just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u110	First of all, I imagine that we do not disagree that the Deputy Minister or the Minister can meet with the Members of the New Democracy in the government, who support us in particular with the doctors, and discuss whatever is present. These thoughts are evident. I told you today, here you were, you heard. Neither back nor anything. This is the programme that we have had and it is the programme that will be implemented on the basis of exactly the new conditions that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u111	That's what we're afraid of.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u112	There will be 220 million in this programme which will be from the Recovery Fund for primary school, that is to say, for those health centres you are now describing. That's where the money's going. They will go to these health centres that are now mentioned in your question and will be their support. I'm not going to tell you that what you're saying is not true. In the first phase, of course, there was a transfer of people to the National Health System, especially in the context of nurses. It was the big fight in the big hospitals and there was a problem in the primary school. At the same time, however, all the subsidized recruitments were carried out. These recruitments are renewed. They end in March and will be renewed now and at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u113	Why don't you make them permanent?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u114	Wait a minute. Watch out. You think we'll make them permanent. Tell me the process that a man becomes permanent, because here he is not able to say things that are not standing in the Constitution. The only procedure is to call for positions. There's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u115	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u116	And we're going to publish positions. Since November, the four thousand nine hundred nineteen have been approved, and they will have a provision with increased moleculosis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u117	The next government will do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u118	Leave the next government. The notice is now in February. But what is the point? These people who were in the COVID battle will be given the opportunity, by the constitutional process and not by the process of declarations of simulation, which is one and only, with a specific moleculation that is compatible with the thought of the Council of State. You raised a number of other issues. You have spoken again about 'testing'. Our country is now a fifth world in the tests it does. There's no other country doing so many tests. And we pay too much money for these tests, whether it's self test, whether it's rapid, or it's PCR...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u119	The Greek people pay them. You're not paying for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u120	When we say 'pay it', we mean that the people pay it, Mr. Darkness. The people are always paying for them. The taxpayer pays them for that, too, when we say we pay the taxpayer's money, we think about them. That is why we say that the taxpayer's money must be considered, because we have heard many policies - and I am glad to say it - but we have to understand that there is no free and free.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u121	He's paying for it from his pocket!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u122	When someone gets up from this Step and says "pay the PCR to everyone" "pay" means some people, that is, Greek taxpayers. We come, then, and in the model that exists in almost all European countries, we make free testing. There's no country that runs a school test like we do. There is no country like ours, which has constantly free points, which have increased, and each one can go. And excuse me, but thanks to testing we are a country that can have good tracking of the cases that exist. And thanks to vaccination, we are the country that, we believe, now that we have reached the European averages, we will have a much better course mainly in the population that is most affected by all, which is the population of over sixty years. But in the questions you have asked, to complete, efforts have also been made for staffing. The time will come, because here you will be, who will applaud when the recovery fund money goes to these health centers and you will see how their form will change.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. The fourth under number 305/11-1-2022 is the first-round question (transfer) by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The suspension of on-call of the Pentelis Children's Hospital and its conversion to an exclusive vaccination centre" will not be discussed due to a serious hurdle of the MP himself. So we go to the ninth number 312/17-1-2022 topical question by the MP Rethymnon of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr. Andreas Xanthi to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The suspension of on-call of the Penteli Children's Hospital is a "mutilation" of public child care". The question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Plearis. Mr. Blonde has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u124	Minister, the history of the Pentelis Children has already been touched by previous colleagues as a typical example of an entirely foreign management which is currently being carried out. I believe that they are one of the most characteristic examples of debacle and fiasco and problematic reflexes in the pressing needs of this period. So at the peak of the new epidemic wave, in the process of increasing the pressure on the health system, you are also internationally increasing nursery and child hospitals, to suspend the on-call of one of the three children's hospitals in the Lekanopedi with a very centralised and special role in the public pediatric care of the wider region, to add six additional vaccination lines, i.e. from the four, which were there, to become ten. This really is incomprehensible, outrageous and sanitary problems. And it seemed these days especially snow, where the vaccinations were suspended, because there was access problem, and of course the hospital was off-call. I therefore think that, at the time that instead of being late, not to say immediately, the vaccination centres should leave the hospitals because they commit valuable resources and deprive staff, services and infrastructure from the care of patients, instead of leaving the hospitals, you decide to suspend the daily and to a large extent and regular operation of an important hospital, one of the four paediatric services in the country, to make vaccination lines there. Obviously there were multiple solutions, such as becoming a major vaccination centre in the centre of the capital and supporting it with staff and the ESS etc., as there is the major vaccination centre in Maroussi. To take up one or two vaccination lines above, hospitals with paediatric clinics. And of course, private doctors, family pediatricians, should be encouraged to play a more active role even if necessary in order to serve with some hours a day or week a major child vaccination centre. They could find solutions. You have chosen the worst, and you have even made it self-government. You dared to go to court to take out a twenty-four-four-four-four-four-hour strike of staff and workers and doctors of the Pentelis children, when the vaccinations were completely suspended last week. This is indeed an intervention that only in a context of total depreciation and mutilation of the public health system can be integrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u125	You have to close the question, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I'm done. In combination with movements that you have attempted in the other two paediatric hospitals to go to the major vaccination center by weakening them too, in combination with some of the scenarios that had come out some time ago, which said you will go to do a hospitality centre for children, which is by the prosecutor's order at the Children's Pentelis, there is a worry that here you are going to make a transformation, depreciation, and a loss of character of a public hospital. This is causing reactions and reacting to workers, and local communities, and there was a strong staff mobilisation. And now the 1st Health Region is coming out and tells you in a document on the 27th of the month that 'to go to a solution to reopen the on-call on 2-2 and be done instead of ten, five vaccination lines', that is to say, to abandon the plan. Will you do it or not, re-establishing the proper function and service provided by such a hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u128	Let's start one by one, 'cause it's really going to get into the real dimension. Because it was said at first that we went to close the hospital, we came to the hospital and we told the hospital it was the issue of the two days and one every 15 days, on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u129	Ten a month. It's not too few.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u130	I'll tell you, Mr. Xanthi. But put the real dimension in it. This is the real dimension. I didn't say anything different than you said. Because to other questions I've been asked, they said it was closed. From morning to 14:30, people are on their way. It was chosen at that time for a certain period of time, to which I am committed here and to a timely question that had been asked by another Member, because there was fear. I've seen the workers too, there was a logic if that's something that starts and is being extended. No, the ceiling of all this process that could reach was six weeks. And I personally committed to the workers that, to the extent that there will be alternatives, we will try the second dates that will go with sms to go to parents in order to be fewer. This commitment remains. The ultimate limit is what I tell you. At the same time, however, in a continuous operation of vaccinations - because operational management is also taking place - it was not chosen to increase lines in the other paediatric centres. There was also the thought that the lines would leave, as you say, and go to the major vaccines, but especially for the paediatrics, because, you can understand that, and staffing in the centers, large should be commensurate with conditions, because children are vaccinated five to eleven years old. At the same time, there is also a clear desire to complete the vaccinations at the ages of five to eleven, which depends not only on the operational capabilities that we had, but also on the vaccines that will come. In this sense, therefore, the concept has been chosen for a certain period of time. At the same time what has happened since then? It has become the part of the "Prometheus" that has opened the children's vaccination lines, which have existed and strengthened these lines, while at the same time in Peristeri and Glyfada, to strengthen lines. But you see there - because all solutions are not easy - there has been a protest again. In order for the Pentelis Children to function at the beginning of the papers, there should be a transfer of experts, which is now a protest. We are trying, and indeed a part of it has been undertaken by the Deputy Mrs Gaga, to come to an agreement with private doctors in order to get in and to make the contracts provided for by the hospitals and to make the vaccinations. Therefore, on the part of the need to have vaccinations, the lines are growing and on the big lines this has been chosen for a specific period in the Pentelis Children. As soon as possible, with the ultimate limit I have told you of six weeks, but as soon as possible the on-calls will be back. At the same time, we had the assurances that there would also be no problem with the hospitals and the on-calls that could cover the two other pediatrics, which they invented at the same time as the Pentelis Children. But we realise that it is a malfunction for the population and the citizens that exist, which should have had the need for the on-call to move. Therefore, this balance has been chosen for a certain period of time, which is the time that will be completed and vaccination at these ages, to have growth. And now, along with the possibilities of the alternatives we have committed that time is specific. It's not gonna be any more. As I said in a question that I had discussed with Mr Gregoriadis since the first week in which it worked, we were already working on plans to do this in less time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u132	Minister, the point is that the Pentelis children are now off-call system and also does not perform its role as a mega-voluntary centre. The design that was saying to enhance some points in the center of Athens to make the children's mass vaccinations, this was supposed to be the design from the outset. Under the panic and loss of control of the situation, under the pressure of the negative pandemic indicators, under the pressure of the Great Maximus - as I understand it - which says'strengthen and rapidly promote the vaccination of the child' - because we know that the Maximus Mansion is making epidemiological surveillance and intervention at this time in the country - you are making moves which are allogeous and, in my view, create these reflexes, of workers and local societies. In my humble position, of course, these are not random, they are not just panic. It's a slowly declaring critical structures. In the north-eastern Attica this period is also the "Siminoglio" COVID and "Flemming" exclusively COVID, i.e. three hospitals in the wider region have essentially abandoned the rest of the care, and this world has either not been caring or being financially burdened. I think it's track shots where you want to go. This is the new health map you are preparing, this is the new RS to which you are referring. Because I have heard you answer 'yes, but we have committed resources from the RRF, from the Recovery Fund and we will give health', etc., firstly, you have committed little, very little. It's 5% of the whole. The Recovery Fund is 30.9 billion and you give 1.5 billion. It's 5% half-weighted. The countries of Europe give 10%. One is that. Secondly, the issue, Minister - and you need to realise it - is not infrastructure, it is not infrastructure upgrading. This is an important condition, it is not an unconditional condition. The next day after the pandemic will not be the problem of infrastructure and equipment, but of human resources, and in that you have done nothing. You let the world be in Burn out, let the world run out its psychosomatic strengths. Ladies and gentlemen, as Giannis Sarakiotis said earlier, he is weakening the ESS, with less people at the moment giving the battle, with less ten thousand people in relation to last year giving the battle of the ESS at this time and it turns out that this arrogant and self-sufficient philosophy of yours that "we have developed PTH" etc. is vacant content, because the subject is not the beds of the CIVID clinics and the beds of the CVIDs, but the people who support them, who are few, who are exhausted, who cannot necessarily raise this weight and that also affects the performance of the system. That is the essence of the matter. Because you do not want to invest in the public health system and because you have a sense to pass the pandemic, "a boor is to end" - this account has ended internationally - and that is why you have neither a line nor a strategy nor a tactical one and you have done it in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u134	First of all, Mr Vandemeulebroucke, thank God you mention something and tell your colleagues that five thousand IF beds are not made, because the issue is not the beds and machines, but it is that IF beds should be managed, because that was the great conversation we have heard many times, 'why you don't give this money to make another thousand IF beds.' It's not about beds and machines. It is very important that there are, but it is also a matter of staffing, which has been done to some extent, and at the moment we have ensured over a thousand three hundred ICU beds, as I have described. I, Mr. Xanthi, have described the exact numbers. I've said what we've gotten from the private sector too, what we've gotten from military hospitals, which beds have been done, which have been developed. These were the possibilities of developing so that we can have IF beds with this medical and nursing staff. Secondly, there is obviously a great deal of talk and it is a great deal of talk. You were also present in the committee we discussed. We've spotted something you don't have to go through long enough to track it down. In addition to infrastructure, which we cannot underestimate, especially in the region where many issues have been dealt with and which have to do with the functioning of ICU structures and beds, we see that there is a different mortality rate in the large hospitals and other mortality rates in the ICUs located in the region, so it is a very important infrastructure issue, but it is also a matter of human resources. There will become the areas that exist to make the ESS attractive again to rediscover the world, the doctors and the nurses and especially the doctors, because the number of nurses is limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u135	Tell us an incision, an idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u136	I'll tell you. But ideas are objective, mandatory and economic incentives and incentives for development. It can't be any different.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u137	So you're looking at something like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u138	Of course we're working on it. Evidently such a framework must be combined, and above all, to the points you know, which you had encountered before a pandemic, Mr. Xanthi, because a little or very much will attend the hospitals of Athens and Thessaloniki. As long as we go to more remote areas and especially to island and mountain regions, the problem is even greater, so incentives should be clear and obvious. When we talk about motives, the first thing a man looks at is that he can go over there and get what he gets to correspond to his service, but that's in the overall context. There will also be relations and how the ESS will become attractive again. In what you said about vaccination, yes, we have a central direction in vaccination. I don't think that's a bad thing to say. Obviously, the Maximos Mansion deals with the issues of pandemic. Is it possible that the Maximos Mansion doesn't deal with such a central issue? Obviously with the Prime Minister two and three times a week, if necessary, we hold conferences on pandemic issues. It was a central decision, therefore, that the vaccinations were. I imagine that you, at least personally, do not disagree that it was a central issue for the vaccinations to run. From there on, therefore, on the operational side, depending on the possibilities available, the best solution is chosen. Even if you do not believe me, Mr Xanthi - and I really say this to you personally, not only as Minister of Health but also to the extent that we have met here in the House - there is no other plan for the Pentelis Children. I want you to know that very clearly. If you think operationally it's wrong that we thought we were right to move in business, that's a criticism, but there's no other thought. The Pentelis Children will function normally in the six-week "standard" that has been set - we will try to be earlier - and there is no other design, because there are already fifty-seven staff added to the Penteli Children. So we'll see, here we are. The weeks go by and see if there was or was no second thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 308/13-1-2022 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on "Direct placement of the new Oncology Hospital of Thessaloniki in the former Karatasos camp in western Thessaloniki". Mr Ploris will also answer Mr Ploris's topical and urgent question. Mr Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the pandemic of the Koronioi has made the need for the renewal and upgrading of existing hospital units in Thessaloniki, which are all of them, apart from "Papageorgiou" and the new 424, are old, outdated, hospital units of decades. A characteristic example is “The Anticancer Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki”. In 1963 the first building of the "Femery", which had already been in operation since 1957 as a model anticancer institute, a hospital that, as the workers themselves pointed out, is now old and inappropriate, as in the absence of suffocations in a densely populated area of the urban fabric, despite the additional infrastructure created in the course of the years or in the same space or in Pylia, as was recently done, etc. However, Minister, I am talking about Thessaloniki, which has remained unprotected health and experienced the two consecutive black November 2020 and 2021. There, in the place you sit, next door was the Prime Minister on November 13, 2020 when he apologized to my city, from Thessaloniki, saying: "In Thessaloniki we were wrong." But this mistake meant thousands of lost lives. I'm presenting the report to the Minutes, the macabre report. Central Macedonia, sad first deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, seven thousand and twenty deaths in central Macedonia, four thousand eleven deaths in Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For Thessaloniki of the dozens permeated out of the ICU that you will remember, here, October 18, 2021, I was ringing the bells and telling you about the fused out of the ICU and saying: "I can't deal with the delirium of Mr. Triantafylides who speaks of a hundred deaths in Thessaloniki." What was your answer? I got her here. ‘There are no intrused patients outside the ICM’. That was your answer to my timely question. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I therefore invite you to agree with this. Leave the parties. We're talking about life here. Keep in mind the patient who comes to do chemotherapy, radiation, and every day he gives the fight with cancer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For Thessaloniki, therefore, in these reports, the Prime Minister announced in September 2021 the creation of the new Oncology Hospital of Thessaloniki, which is an absolute need and an ever-increasing demand. And I insist on saying that the choice of space is a clear one. The former Caratasu camp of eight hundred nine acres, which belongs to the Greek State. So then, after submitting the timely question, I sent a letter on the 13th of the month, I wrote to the mayors, for I also wanted to see the church. I have here - and I present my letters in the Minutes - and in particular the letters of the absolute agreement and support - I do not convey my personal request, I am transferring the Pandidian request that the mayors of the first grade be called in writing - for the new Oncology Hospital of Thessaloniki by the Mayor of Paul Mela, Dimitris Demortzides, the Mayor of Sicily - Neapoleos, Simos Danilides, the Mayor of Veleos - Meneme, Lazarus Kizoglou, the Mayor of Cordellios - Evosmos, Cleanthi Mandalianos, the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Constantine Zerva, with their signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Colleague, you have to ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u142	I'll be done. Thank you for your understanding, Madam President. You understand how important this is to the city. I also present the letter which has not been sent to me, but to you on the 18th of the month, which is from the most respected Metropolitan, Mr Varnavas Neapolitan and Mr Stavroupolis, which I also present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the question and want to be clear and please very much. Does the government consider with due seriousness and responsibility the universal demand of the inhabitants of Thessaloniki, as expressed in the proposal - a decision made by the mayors of the western districts to build this tumor hospital in the former Caratasu camp? I mentioned to you a blueprint of the regional hospital, how comparable advantages are exactly across from the Papageorgiou Hospital and the 424 on the regional road. All the municipalities of central Macedonia - seven thousand dead - may come to this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Comrade, in your dentext, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u144	The second question, and I close it, is this something going on? Mr. Mitsotakis announced it in September. We didn't see a reference to the budget. Or did we miss it? Is there a special amount for a study? There's no mention. I saw reports from the "BHMA" for the sixteen buildings.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u145	Colleague, please don't make it hard on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u146	I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u147	Please. I gave you plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u148	Whatever I can do in time, I'll tell my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u150	One of the hospitals that will become, the Prime Minister had made it clear that it will be in Thessaloniki and it will be the oncology. In fact, all the procedures relating to the part linked to your question have been advanced, so that there is a placement where this hospital is going to become. Yes, Mr. Triantafylides, within the week you will be placed, because again for Thessaloniki there is an important bill that is the pediatrics. And this is an important context, because Thessaloniki really did not have a purely pediatric hospital. In particular, for the oncology you are saying, because I want to be clear, we are at the stage where the entire area is controlled by the alternative locations that exist. What will be considered? Access to public transport, the subject you have said, the health structures that may be close to us, other technical issues that may be relevant to the environment. The specific area you say, yes, is one of the areas that is basically being examined. There have also been some discussions at the level to see the advantages of any disadvantages and a technical framework. In this sense, I want us to be clear that we will be able to announce the placement as soon as possible. The project will be launched immediately, in accordance with the public-private partnership process, where necessary. It will be immediate to implement it. It's a top priority. In order to be able to make announcements, however, the whole spatial study should be exhausted. I would like to say, however, that this area is indeed one of the areas considered with due regard, as has been said, for it is precisely because we see that it has some characteristics which are considered important. But this on its own is not a matter for the Minister of Health's announcements that it will be done. Alternatives that have been proposed, and immediately we will also be able to reach agreement with the local community - I give a very great deal of value to you, especially because, at a personal level, I am not a person who is living in the region, that makes me want a much greater attention - to choose the best possible space on the one hand: the best possible access to citizens and, on the other, the potential for a wider service to be provided in terms of citizens' accessibility. This particular area - and Mr Kalafatis, who is in agreement and Mr Kotsiopoulou as Secretary-General for Health - is one of the areas that we are considering very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u152	Minister, as you will understand from the spirit of my question, we can disagree, we can face up to these issues, but none of the five mayors are SYRIZA. Because Thessaloniki and the needs of our citizens unite us. You will say the word: 'Will the Members and some extra-institutionals say where they will be?' Oh, no. We didn't get it out of our minds. I would say in the Minutes that the general planning plan is to be drawn up. Mr. Tagaras signs it in June 2021, where in this round you see here, there is a fire station, there is a point where buses will come and the cross indicates the development of hospital units. I also present this, the general urban plan of the Municipality of Paul Mela, which is the specific former Caratsu camp, which we propose, scientifically, with documentation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have seen many as journalists and also in the last few years I have the honour of representing the citizens of Thessaloniki in the national Parliament. They don't fit political discussions and thoughts. It's not one of the spots of the former Caratsu camp. She's an eyewitness. It's getting an eye. Why am I telling you? With this painting I had come to you. He wasn't there. The Thanos Pilaris was Paul Paulakis. I also claimed that the pediatric hospital in Thessaloniki should also be held in this area. What was the difference? That at that time the funding was from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation and they wanted clear titles of property. And that's why I got as high as my ocular pressure was. Do not send the pediatric five miles away from the bucket. Because there, as the mayors have told me, Mr. Danielides, will run their baby with 39.5 fever and the ambulances will flee to the street of Phiros, which is the first road to catch snow on the climber, at a steep turn. They'll fall off the streams. The ophthalmophane, which connects Thessaloniki from Kalamaria to Eukaryia and all the prefectures of central Macedonia, was then not accessed. The project will now be financed through national and European resources. I read on 26 December in 'HIMA': 'Recovery fund injection'. Renovations and modernisation of hospitals throughout Greece’. It's sixteen plays. You also have works from Thessaloniki. Pneumonology in the Hippocrates. That's right, you did it. New wing of the ‘Papageorgios’. That's right, you're doing it. Where's the new oncology? Where will it be financed? You have no provision in the budget for 1, 2, 3 million to study the placement of the new tumor. So, my fellow citizens, the mayors, are wondering whether it is one of the usual lyrics, one of the usual pyrotechnics that the Minister in question is escalating from the stepping-up of the Thessaloniki International exhibition to make good to the citizens of Thessaloniki? We're full. Thessaloniki is full of words. From subway to hospitals and from port to transit stations, etc. If you're going to do it, don't play with that. We're talking about tumor patients. To fight cancer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u153	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u154	So let us know if you're going to set up a committee. Will you specify any amount that seems to be starting to be the premeditated and the study? That's the question. I'm waiting to hear you. All the radios in Thessaloniki right now are connected and listen to the Minister of Health. Not me. Forget me. Keep the mayors, keep the Church, the Pandid request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u155	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Triantafylides, it's like you said at first. We're people we meet on a personal level. There are issues that, beyond ideological differences, do not fit into a political debate. All people, all MPs are on the same basis. There needs to be a hospital. More generally, in Thessaloniki. What happened with the Foundation "Joannis S. Latsi", the daily care unit, is a jewel. It is an essential part of the ‘Failure’. It's very important. And the pediatrics, too. So this is a key priority and it will be done. You didn't see it in the announcements because it wouldn't be with the recovery fund money. It's not under the Recovery Fund. It will be through national resources, with other European resources and with a public-private partnership. Immediately you'll see how it works. But it's clear it's going to happen. In fact, in the last Ministerial Council, specific mention has been made of the fact that we are in the final straight line in order to start from the first framework that is the placement. That's right. The part of the placement will obviously not be judged by the Members and mayors but will be taken seriously into account by the desire of local bodies because they know to a large extent how they can be served. I think I have clearly told you that the specific area for which I see that you have dealt with a personal level over time for its suitability has exactly the problems you raise in relation to ownership. They're still, but now they're on state level, all that's got to do. But it is one of the areas that we have already identified, we are already examining, there have already been exploratory contacts and there is a balance between advantages and any disadvantages that may exist. I would like to say to you that it has serious arguments in the procedure you say about space. There is also an examination of other sites that have been proposed. Immediately we will be ready to place ourselves, but certainly this area is one of the areas that we are looking at very seriously. The work as soon as the space is located and we announce it will also have a clear timetable for its implementation. In order not to cause suspicion to anyone in the city of Thessaloniki. Whoever was here would have been suspicious. There will be a clear timetable for the citizens to judge whether this is being observed. As is going to be done with the pediatrician we're with within the timeframe.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u157	We will now discuss the sixth question by number 314/17-1-2022 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on "Direct need to rebuild the Skopelos Health Center". Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the island of Skopelos is the second largest island of the Northern Sporades in Magnesia with a permanent population of about four thousand nine hundred and sixty inhabitants who are overcrowded during the summer. The only public health structure on the island is the Skopelos Health Center. It therefore covers the health needs of the permanent population of the island of thousands of visitors during the summer season, while in its administrative function - and this is particularly important - it also belongs to the regional office on the next island of the Alonissos. So the building that the health center has been housed has not been renovated for several years. The problems he presents are appalling. On the roof, the walls, the heating, the lids, the sanitary areas. They are, therefore, issues that render the health centre procedure incomplete. So these problems are getting worse in time and now the indoor areas where patients are being examined do not remind of any health centres. They don't remind of anything primary health care. The Municipality of Skopelos, Minister, has completed the implementation study for the reconstruction of the Skopelos Health Center after a donation made by the Foundation of "Athanasios and Marina Martinou". According to statements made by the Region of Thessaly throughout the previous period the absence of this study was the main reason why the Skopelos Health Centre could not be renovated despite the fact that the Region of Thessaly stated that the money existed. In a subsequent statement, however, last July, Mr Aggostos raised the statement that their health centres and building-related issues were matters of responsibility for the health region and, by extension, the Ministry of Health. The issue remains unresolved and there is a creative lack of competence. Finally, we end up talking all the time, but nothing happens. The question is very simple. What is happening and we do not proceed with the reconstruction of this health center when the Thessaly Region's statement is there the money and the study is ready. And of course it is not the only issue that remains unsolved. Next to the building problem has deteriorated as a result of pandemic and other issues of staffing the island to which I shall return in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u160	Mr Mikopoulou, there has indeed been a study which lacked EUR 1 million for building reconstructions and in general the corrections to be made to this health centre. The 5th RSR included this project in mapping for the new projects of the NSRP 2021 - 2027. This project, with an estimated implementation time of twenty-four months and a budget of 1.128, has now been submitted to the NRP's final structure of the Ministry of Health. Including 300,000 for building charges. The final structure of the NRV of the Ministry of Health has submitted this project to the committee in order to start its process. More generally than the final Skopje-related NSRF structure, there has been a wider debate on health centres. The 5th Health Region itself in a document has confirmed that it is one of the health centres that needs immediate support in respect of building structures. The necessary interventions must be made. It is clear that they will be implemented and done. The procedures will be completed in order to improve this health centre. But, from there on, you should be aware that in a more general mapping carried out in the health centres at the moment, it also concerns your own regions, that is, the Magnesia region and the other health centres in the Sporades, we are considering which of them will join. Skopelos had mentioned the NRP - as you were told by the region - which passed through Thessaly Region in the 5th Health Region. At the same time, however, we are considering - and it is important - whether there are other structures that need to be integrated into the Recovery Fund, since we have only secured 220 million from the Recovery Fund to upgrade health centres' buildings and logistics facilities, all of which is true throughout Greece. So we have also been made proposals for specific health centres, more extensively Magnesia, and we are at the stage of expansion. Skopelos had the specific problems that have been mentioned. Procedures will go ahead in order to deal with and upgrade buildings, but at the same time, you know there is a broader design for the other health centers in your area.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u162	Minister, we have 2022. The issues you have just mentioned are well known to the Ministry of Health. You were not yourself in the political leadership, but you were well-known about the buildings of the Skopelos Health Center and the Zagora Health Center since 2019. You are now answering me that, three years later, in 2022, there is an application horizon to rebuild the building issue of the Skopelos Health Centre in twenty-four months' time. So, since 2022, there can be a rebuilding of the health center in 2024. I therefore do not think that it is appropriate for the performance, which you call from morning to night, to make five years of attempts to rebuild a health centre in Magnesia and especially on an island, which is also a tourist destination. I still do not understand why, when such cooperation between the 5th Health Region and the Region of Thessaly resulted in the rebuilding of the Skiathos Health Centre, there is still no proper coordination between the institutions so that the necessary action can be taken and issues which prove to be horrific about the daily lives of the citizens can be restored. I think, Mr Ploiros, it is not enough to say that in twenty-four months' time we will finally have a result on the rebuilding of the Skopelos Health Centre. And I would remind you again that the same picture is presented in other primary structures of Magnesia. At the Zagora Health Center, for example, there is a great risk of collapse of walls, that is, that people may get injured in the injury of health workers. And now I come to what I have presided over from my prototype, because it is not just building matters. You know, Mr Plouris, the pandemic not only created serious issues regarding the health coverage of the inhabitants of Sporades and Continental Magnesia, but also raised new health requirements. And I come to this particular issue, which has already been notified to you by the inhabitants of the island and also by the mayor of the island, Mr. Perissis. You know they're collecting signatures, and they've reached about three hundred to finally place a permanent pediatrician on the island. The only pediatrician currently in existence is the head of the Skopelos Health Center, which has in its administrative competence to cover health and the Alonissos Regional Health Centre. Therefore, there are children at the moment in Skopelos who are either being examined by agricultural doctors, once in a while, or there is a need for a stay in Volos, in order to deal with an emergency. Secondly, we need another pathologist, Mr Plori. You told me about the programme to upgrade the building blocks of primary health structures, but you did not tell me about the needs of staffing. How many doctors will you bring right now in order to make primary structures functional, especially in the islands, where the needs, in fact, are overcrowded during the summer months due to the arrival of thousands of tourists? You know, Skopelos is a high tourist destination for the summer. So all these issues cannot be referred back, Mr Minister, to the bells. In twenty-four months you answered me, it will be completed. It needs immediate mobilisation, proper planning is needed. It is not a matter of wooden confrontation, but it is a matter of whether the 5th Health Region really is, but the Ministry of Health is also common at the moment of the terrible needs that exist in health centres, which are in remote areas. So give us a clear answer on how to act to speed up the procedures for rebuilding buildings, and secondly - most importantly - what will be done with the programme for installing new doctors. I repeat, children in Skopelos today must be transited to Volos Hospital in order to deal with an emergency disease. This picture is unacceptable in the year 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u164	First of all, because you referred to the Zagora Health Center, this project has been carried out properly. The procedure has been completed to start the works. They've been approved, signed and they've gone...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u165	The work has not begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u166	I'm telling you the process has been completed by the Ministry. So as the process is completed, the work will be started immediately. The procedure for Zagori has been completed. We were in communication and with the district manager, they were signed and went to the Ministry of Development in order to begin. So this piece is closed. Regarding Skopelos, I understand your concern and we will look to move as quickly as possible and find the best possible financial instrument. One possibility is from an ESRB. If there is a better and faster financial instrument, I honestly speak to you, Mr Meikopoulou, we will exhaust it because we understand the necessity. You're referring to the staff part. They are currently serving ten doctors, three doctors of general medicine, pediatrics, cardiology and seven rural doctors. Accordingly, a post for the head of a family doctor has been opened, while positions - and they have taken office - have been announced for administrative, nursing and ambulance crews. Similarly, there is also a series for other medical staff, which took up duty. So those notices are needed and given to us, in order to cover the positions. These positions are currently covered in paramedics and nursing staff, as well as doctors, which are ten. From that point on, we'll try the best possible staffing. We are being sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It happens to be one of the health centres where there have been no barren procedures so far. We believe that his staffing will also have no problem. In the building, however, which you are referring to, I will be able to give you a clear timetable as soon as possible because I understand the sensitivity you have for an island which, in fact, apart from being nice, is also an island which is at a point where during the summer months has a great deal of pressure, and in the winter months does not have very easy access if any movements are needed. It is therefore something that we have in priority, along with the other islands, such as the Alonissos, where there are some problems that have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Minister. Now we will discuss the third question with No 327/19-1-2022 in the first cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Problems to record vaccination doses", will the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, George Georgios Georgios. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary-General, I have taken note of the following case: it is one of our eighty-three-year-old fellow citizens, an honest professor at the European University Institute in Florence. made the first two doses of the vaccine here in Greece in February 2021 and last September, which had to travel to Italy, the third dose there. The result is that, unfortunately, the third dose of that in Italy is not recognised here in order to obtain a European certificate of vaccination. Italy finally agreed to issue it to him. My question is why this is happening and what happens if there is a reverse, power, that is to say if someone has done the corrections outside and the third one here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, thank you for the question, because you will be given the opportunity in the case where you have faced some answers to reasonable questions from many of our fellow citizens, precisely because, as long as the time goes, the applications that we have created to first serve the condition of the vaccination programme, you understand that they are constantly changing, precisely because we have cases of our fellow citizens who have experienced abroad and have come to Greece, or have been vaccinated in part abroad and part of Greece. So I will try - on the occasion of this question you have asked - to give you a little context. There are two large groups of people who have been vaccinated abroad and want to be served in Greece somehow. The first category is those that have been vaccinated either in one of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union, and in the thirty-three other states, which have been included, have been included in the European Certificate programme. So there, things are simple. There is a general principle which, of course, does not serve all the countries in the same way. What is this general principle? The European Certificate is issued in the country where vaccination is completed, i.e. where either the second or third is completed. That is at least what we and several other European countries are applying, but not everything. What does that mean? Someone who was vaccinated with one dose abroad and wanted to do the second one in Greece comes, registers the first one, does the second one, and precisely because he does the second one in the country - that is to say, ends in the country - takes the European Certificate, since its first dose took place in one of the sixty countries that I mentioned. So does anyone who has done the two abroad and wanted to make the third in Greece. It comes, registers the two and makes the third in Greece and gets the corresponding European Certificate. This is how we operate for those who were vaccinated abroad and come to finish in Greece. The case you mentioned to me is the case where someone was vaccinated here and made the third dose abroad. I want to say that I do not understand why it was not issued at the very time when the third dose became the European certificate of three doses in Italy, but we are going beyond it. We want to serve all those who are in a dire position. That is why, since 10 January - and I do not know whether this fellow citizen has appealed to us after or before 10 January in the JEPs or the implementation of gov.gr, which has been implemented, it is the so-called anagnorisi.emvolio.gov.gr - whoever has been vaccinated either with the two or three doses in some of the sixty countries that have the European Certificate also issues it in Greece, so that it can participate in all activities, where provided. In fact, not only that, whoever has done the two and wants to schedule the third can do it through this application. Why this application? Because it is digitally verifiable certificates, the application can very easily verify the authenticity of these documents and register them in Greece as well. So - and I will go on in the second part - we keep that from 10 January those who have been vaccinated with two or three doses abroad or in the European Union - in the twenty-seven countries - or in the thirty-three countries that have joined, that is, in total in sixty countries which have a digitally verifiable certificate, can register these doses through anagnorisi.emvolio.gov.gr and issue a corresponding certificate, such as those which they obviously had in the countries that were. And already five thousand seven hundred and thirty fellow citizens have done it to us. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u172	I mean, if I understand correctly, Mr. Secretary, since 10 January this man can issue a certificate in Greece for the three vaccinations he has made.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u174	Good. Will this also be the case if - the non-sexual - becomes compulsory and fourth dose of vaccine? Because he is a man of eighty-three years old, belongs to vulnerable groups of the population because he has underlying illnesses and is very likely to have an obligation for the fourth vaccination as well. Will it also apply in this case? That is the first question. The second question is how is the fine imposed when no one has been vaccinated and how can anyone certify that she has been vaccinated abroad?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Comrade, let's say a little bit about the fine. From what I understand, as you say in the question, our particular citizen went to a JEP and the JEP did not issue him a certificate - and they rightly can't issue it and I will tell you why - but they registered it, they gave him a certificate of registration. Know what: at the moment this eighty-seven-year-old is not in danger of imposing the fine on him, precisely because registration of the third instalment has been done. In other words, it seems that there is no risk of any fine being imposed in the register. This is true, of course, for anyone over sixty years of age who can go to a JEP, to state there the vaccination he has done and made the second dose, because the law is for those who have not been vaccinated at all, the fine is for those who have not been vaccinated at all. So he's not in danger with a fine. Let me say something about the JEPs, too. Let us say that the JEPs have actually offered a lot of service during this period, because all cases, hypotheses, all necessarily end up there, because outside of the sixty countries that we mentioned, there are also those who do not have digital verifiable certificates, which, of course, apply in our country by simply demonstrating them, but if they want to register them, this is done through the JEPs through a procedure that has been planned. The issue of a certificate in case I mentioned to you - which we mentioned before - is done automatically by anagnorisi.emvolio.gov.gr, because there is the application that controls the authenticity of the document over there. In the JEPs you register it so you don't have the adverse effects, they just can't issue a certificate. Now, with regard to your first question on what will actually happen, at the moment with those who have to show that they have been vaccinated with the third dose within the seven-month period, what will apply from the next few days, or with what else is happening, I am not in a position to answer you at this time. In general terms, however, I will tell you the approach we are taking as a whole. In us for the sixty countries belonging to the European Certificate, who will enter today, it registers the three instalments he has made and thus applies his certificate in the country as well and issues a certificate in the country. Whoever did two and is in one of the thirty three countries is planning through anagnorisi.emvolio.gov.gr its third dose automatically and issuing a certificate in our country. Anyone who is not in some of these sixty countries must go to a JEP, declare the second dose or the first or what he has done and programme the next and on the basis of the vaccination that will eventually make the country issue the relevant certificate. And, of course, we are trying to respond to all these cases which appear every time they change and the framework, as the Ministry of Health and the National Committee for Vaccines gives us, without always having a corresponding approach in all the European states to the details. General principles are served by all European states. So on this question, our fellow citizen after 10 January can, through anagnorisi.emvolio.gov.gr, register the third instalment he made in Italy and issue the relevant certificate in the country, as can everyone else who listens to us. Those who do not have a digital verifiable certificate must go to some JEPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be debated because of a blockade by the Member, the second with number 329/20-1-2022, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Larisa, the Radical Left coalition Mr Anna Vageas - Kilaidoni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An extraordinary need for the construction of the Farsalon Watchtower Dam in Enipea". Nor will the second question be discussed under number 1872/14-12-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Aetolokarnania Movement of Change Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "In despair the inhabitants of Aetolokarnania following the problems on the Eunochori Bridge." Nor will it be debated because of lack of responsibility, the seventh under number 330/21-1-2022, a topical question from the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Malama to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To ensure the funds for the repair of the Sykia Halkidiki Bridge". And we enter the third question under number 398/18-10-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Derogation of the Supreme Labour Council from the General Secretariat of Labour, resulting in the discharge of thirty workers in Kavala Fertilisers". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question is more timely than ever since yesterday's social slogan "Metsotakis" has yet entered a slogan and a demand of the world "Herginaki resignation". So people are asking that Mrs. Hrainaki resign if the complaints are true that the scandal - cooperation of Furtiotis has her own signature, if they are true to the messages that have been made public, which have not yet been denied that she and her director of the office have asked a man of the night to file a complaint against a journalist and against a former minister, to accuse him of his broadcasts as a former minister and at the same time hit him politically and at the same time Mrs. Hrainaki called him "baddy", a man of the night who has more than thirty cases open to Greek justice and who should be chasing to defend the interests of the Greek State and of the Ministry of Labour. I am therefore asking that it be checked and removed from her post, that you dismiss Mrs Hrlinakis, because in her actions she has led a hundred and twenty-eight workers once again to unemployment by ratifying the collective redundancies she has tried to make, of course, but we will cancel them in court, Mr Laurentis Laurentiades. In particular, I ask you: will you dismiss Mrs Hrlinakis, because on 10 May she approved Mr Laurentiadis' request to consult on collective redundancies for the first time in the Ministry of Labour? You are going to throw her out of her position, because on 18-6-2021 the file was filed with the Ministry of Labour on the file submitted by the employer and while she was obliged by law within 10 days - an exclusive period of ten days - to make a reasoned decision on collective redundancies itself. Thirteen days later, after the exclusive deadline, she called the Higher Labour Council without even giving them the file, without the members of the Higher Labour Council knowing why they are meeting. And what did he do? The decision that came out on 1 July, thirteen days after the file was filed, was sent with a protocol number to the employer on 9 July, while on 11 July Ms. Strainakis sent the minutes of the meeting to the members of the High Council of Labour and asked for the minutes to be corrected in order to adopt the decision, a decision already sent to the employer and approved it, I do not know if the employer had already written it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And finally, after falsifying the Minutes and the decision, you seem to have a problem with your Minutes and apologise for the abuse of time...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u179	Madam Colleague, you have to ask your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u180	At the second meeting on 20 July he said that everything was done well on the part of Mr Laurentiadis, that information and consultation was carried out correctly and that collective redundancies should go ahead on the basis of what? In a 2014 balance sheet. That was the financial evidence. That is what Mrs Henderson has approved. These led to the collective redundancies of a hundred and twenty - eight workers. For all this, I would ask that Mrs Strainakis be checked and dismissed from her post and I await your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you will allow me first of all to remain in the contents of your question. As you know, your question was originally put as a written question and in the written questions the Member may put a large number of individual questions, whereas in time it is usually limited to two or three, so that an oral debate can be held within a reasonable time. Your written question has now been turned into a timely one, it has many questions, yet I will try to answer a number of them and give substantial answers. We have discussed the Kavala Fertilizers issue together many times in the context of parliamentary control. The case is known to the Ministry of Labour and the relevant departments. But you will allow me to begin by pointing out a 'parallelity' regarding the wording of your question. While participating through a teleconferencing conference as legal adviser to the Kavala Fertilizers Association at the meeting of the Higher Labour Council of 1-7-21, as recorded in the minutes of the meeting, in the context of parliamentary control, you are discouraging your presence and invoking a report from the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. I really do not understand the reason for this silence. Now on the substance according to Law 4472/2017, it is the law of SYRIZA, you voted here in this Chamber, the process of collective redundancies has changed radically. The main changes were the abolition of competence on a case-by-case basis of the Prefecture or the Minister of Labour not to approve collective redundancies if there is no agreement during the negotiations between employers and workers. A competent body under this law is the Higher Council of Labour, but it is only the task of which to determine whether the employer's obligations for informing and consulting employees' representatives have been complied with and the obligation to communicate the relevant documents. Therefore, I repeat, this law does not allow the Higher Labour Council to refuse to approve the complaints of contracts of employment. In addition, the same law provides for the possibility of the employer's being obliged to take into account social plans for workers made redundant, i.e. measures to alleviate the effects of redundancies. In relation to collective redundancies, the law provides that the deadline for consultation between workers and employers is thirty days and that the result of these consultations is formulated in a practice submitted by the employer to the Labour Council. A memorandum on the negotiations may also be submitted by workers' representatives. Your questions essentially relate to whether the legitimate process of collective redundancies has been observed for thirty, you said a hundred twenty-eight, Kavala Fertilizer workers. I will list the facts as they have evolved on the basis of the information received from the relevant departments of the Ministry of Labour. First, at noon on Friday 18-6-21 it was filed with the Ministry of Documents on planned group redundancies in ELFE S.A. on the basis of Law No. 1387/1983, as amended by Law No. 4472/17. On 22-6-21, as 21 June was the holiday of the Holy Spirit, the file was received by the responsible service. On 24 June, following an audit of the relevant documents, the Office submitted by ELFE S.A., on behalf of the Office, the file with a transfer document to the Chairman of the Higher Labour Council, Mrs. H.E., mentioned earlier, who, having been informed, set a date for a meeting on 1-7-21, that is seven days later. Indeed, the Higher Labour Council met on 1-7-21, i.e. within the exclusive deadline laid down by the law. So the first of your questions certainly does not arise from the facts. Thank you very much and I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u184	Minister, I assure you that I do not hide my status as legal adviser to this club and to the workers concerned. Just the opposite, I'm proud of it. If you now give me permission the next time I ask you to bring all the documents I have in my possession on this basis, then I think that will not be of any interest to you at all. I have no objections. As far as the law passed by SYRIZA is concerned, you are completely indisputable, because once again you read what they give you. So, with the previous law, if an employer didn't go to the Ministry of Labour and made group redundancies what would happen? The workers would go to court and say that the legal formality procedure was not followed and canceled the redundancies. Just the same goes for that law. The Ministry may decide whether the financial information provided by the employer meets the conditions of the information law. It also has the opportunity to judge whether there has been substantial consultation with the workers. If information and consultation were made, then it removes the Ministry from the employees the possibility for a formal reason to cancel the redundancies. If the Ministry says that there was no information and consultation, then the workers can also go to court and cancel the collective redundancies because there was no information and consultation because the law still provides that they must be made. What, then, did Mrs Henderson do, except that she violated the deadlines? Because the law, if you read it, says that since the file's been filed in ten days. By 18/6, if we count ten days, they don't go 17/7, Minister. In addition to the violation, except that he did not give the AACC members the opportunity to formulate their own opinion by having the relevant - within fifty pages! - at least one day before - he gave the AACC members the relevant one minute before the start of the meeting - except that he called the meeting only on the employer side - he was ready and we were making a fuss to listen! - in addition to all of this, with a 2014 balance - that was the financial element that Mr Laurentiadis brought, 2014 balance! - he decided that the information is being paid! Are you not ashamed to support it, continue to support this lady, who dared to tell the workers that it is an opportunity for team redundancies to be reinstated into the labour market? So next time, Minister, since you have said this and you have proposed it, I will bring you what I have in my possession, based on my capacity as a lawyer in this union, a quality for which I am proud and proud to be involved in this flagship fight against employer arbitrariness. You must also for at least once, because you are a decent man - you have nothing to do with these practices - to answer seriously. And I wonder why you didn't answer in writing if you were to say here and read to me what Mrs. Strandakis gave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u185	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Eleftheriadou, on the first point you said, you are simply referring to your question as a source in the press release of the paper 'DOCUMENTO' in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u187	I've answered you! Do you want me to refer to the documents...?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u188	Let me finish. She has a certain procedure, Mrs Eleftheriadou, thank you. I just said it didn't make sense to me, that is, to invoke something else as a source, at a time when you were at the source of the facts. You were the same in there. That's just it, and I didn't say anything else about it. As I mentioned in my prototype, the meeting of the High Council of Labour took place on 1 July 2021 and the meeting took place in the presence of all the parties involved. Due to the protection measures against coronary and sanitary restrictions, the meeting was finally held by teleconference rather than by physical presence, as originally planned. During the meeting and in order to provide better information to the members, it was unanimously accepted by the present members and the Chairman of the High Council of Labour that the representatives of the employer and of the workers should speak to them in order to enable them to develop their views, as foreseen by the law. At first, the employer was placed in order to provide facilities and explanations of the documents he had submitted and subsequently the workers. The sitting lasted seven hours and all interested parties were placed in detail. The decision taken at the meeting on 1 July 2021 was to give the employer until 16 July 2021 in order to provide additional financial information to the company and to strengthen the social plan to the affected. In your question - and you have said it before - you are referring to amendments to the Minutes of the sitting of 1 July 2021 after 9 July 2021. These amendments concerned the precise recording and wording of the participants' views from them. This is a common practice. We're getting out of here, too. After this meeting, you will be sent to the Minutes, they will also be sent to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u189	We have them and we have the annex.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u190	That's all it's done. Nothing more happened. So the decision had already been taken and it obviously could not change. Finally, at the second online meeting of the Labour Council on 20 July 2021 and following the submission of additional documents by the company on 16 July, it was decided that the conditions set out in Articles 3 and 5 of Law 1387/83, as in force after its amendment by Law 4472/2017, were fulfilled. In conclusion, of all that I have said before, it is clear that in this case both the letter and the spirit of the law have been observed and therefore the Ministry of Labour has no opportunity to take any further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the following topical questions and questions in the reporting and questions cycle will not be discussed after consultation: The fourth under number 326/19-1-2022 is the first time a question from the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakka to the Minister of Health, on "Emergency measures for the staffing and safe operation of the Artificial Nefros Unit in Boston Hospital of Mytilini". The sixth question under number 332/21-1-2022 in the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Direct actions to save the bridge of Karytina". The tenth under number 338/24-1-2022 is a topical question for the second cycle of the Parliamentary Pellas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent staffing of the tumor section of the Yannitson Hospital". Eleventh Question No 343/24-1-2022 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission, on 'Statement of payment of the financial support for professional fishermen'. The first under number 309/13-1-2022 of the first cycle (transport) by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Actions for the 100-year anniversary of the Asia Minor Destruction". The third, with number 319/17-1-2022, is the first (transport) question by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: 'What is the government position on the sustainability, consolidation and safeguarding of the jobs of the Eleusina shipyards?' The fifth, under number 304/11-1-2022, topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "PYRKAL in Elefsina: a government sacrifice in the refineries against the decisions of the competent bodies". The first one under number 311/14-1-2022 is a second (transfer) question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Our struggle for reunification of the Sculptures of the Parthenon". The eighth Question No 310/13-1-2022 by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis, Minister for Justice, on the subject: "Press: Valanidorchis Forest - Protection of the public's ownership". The twelfth, under number 318/17-1-2022, is a second (transport) question by MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouroliakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: ‘A ticket of EUR 50 to the shipwreck of Alonissos’. The second question, under number 276/13-10-2021, of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Reimbursements on movable assets destroyed by the earthquake of 27 September'. And finally, the fifth under number 324/17-1-2022, the first question of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Special liquidation of LARCO" and an assessment of its value". You will allow me, at this point, to make a short break, because the Deputy Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Karayannis, has been delayed, so we must wait for him. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We move to the ninth under number 340/24-1-2022, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Information about the cutting of hundreds of trees in the squares of Athens because of Line 4 of Metro". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Georgios Karagiannis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u193	Minister, today we will discuss a matter which is literally burning from all sides, particularly the Municipality of Athens and the workers and those who live in Athens. The creation of Metro Line 4 is undoubtedly the implementation of a vision for three hundred - I think - thousands of users, who, I think, do not hide you, are mainly from the areas that have been very jealous of other Athenian workers who have, for example, been staying in Peristeri or in other parts of Attica in general, because they have reached their time and have arrived accurately and safely. However, this jealousy is now really coming to an end, because everyone will get the most useful means of transport. But, on the other hand - and this is what gave me the opportunity to ask you a timely question - we are outraged, we are noisy, we are very sorry, because to make the projects "pay" the environment and, in particular, the trees that we were accustomed to in the few open squares of the centre of Athens, with a recent example, which has risen to "storm", the cutting of the trees in Kolonaki Square. Of course, for those we know from the life of the city, in combination with what is necessary to do so much work, we have also kept a'small basket'. Until I had to ask you the question, because I am sure you were not allowed to kill - in an introductory or non-importative way - hundreds of trees in Kolonaki Square and others just to become the Metro. So I am anxiously awaiting your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u195	Madam President, I would ask you to have a little more time in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u196	As much as you want, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u197	...because it's a very important issue that we're going to analyse today because of Mrs. Pipilis' question. And I thank you really for the question, because it is a huge opportunity to inform the citizens of the great work of Line 4, what is envisaged for green, trees, squares and where the construction sites will be. Mrs. Pipilis, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis received the project contest stopped in its second phase, with many legal problems and the risk of cancellation visible. And not only did we resolve them, but we also signed the Convention on Preparatory Works and the Convention on Basic Work in June 1921. Immediately the work started, as you can see. The ‘ATTIC MEASURES’ had to deliver to the contractors the public spaces and squares at regular intervals provided for under the contract. The metro, due to the speed, reliability, safety and quality it offers, has changed radically, I would say, the habits of the people of Athens and more extensively of Lecanopedi, thus changing the same radically, traffic conditions and the environment in the capital, as movers now prefer this instrument, which is environmentally friendly, rather than using polluting vehicles. But perhaps the most visible consequence of the metro, which is the reduction of traffic congestion on the capital's roads, is that we usually see it and understand all the few - thankfully, I say, the few times - that we cannot have the provision of this instrument when it is interrupted for external factors. I want to tell you something else before I answer your questions. Already, passenger traffic amounts to substantial levels before COVID, almost one million passengers a day. With the operation of line 4 hundred forty thousand passengers will be added to the metro network daily, it will reduce the traffic in the streets of Attica and the Lecanomedi by fifty-three thousand vehicles every day, and we will all be able to breathe effectively three hundred and eighty-eight tons of carbon dioxide daily. This underlines the important contribution of the metro to reducing pollutants, which, as you know, lead to the climate change that we are all experiencing today in the days that we are experiencing. So, going through your questions, I would first of all like to present the environmental impact study and environmental conditions, which was adopted in 2018. As in any such project, a thorough examination of the environmental impact study by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and consultation with all stakeholders has taken place. Now we're going to the questions you asked us. "The Kolonaki is two steps from the Constitution and the University. Why do we need to have another station there?" Reply: The necessity of all stations has been established on the basis of the most reliable methods of the science of communology. In particular, however, the station in Kolonaki is expected to serve a large number of local residents and workers, to dismantle the passenger areas of the Constitution. And that's too important to have a smoother metro function. This also helps us to see that any abolition of these stations would lead to significant deterioration in the next few years and at the Syntagma and University station, as well as in the parking conditions and - I would say - a burden on the environment throughout the wider area of Kolonaki. But let's go to your most basic question: "But why are you cutting trees? Do you follow any method of special services so that hundreds of trees are not permanently destroyed? Is there a planting programme there?’ I would like to inform you that a detailed account of the existing state of Kolonaki Square was taken before the start of the work, as well as of every square that the "ATITI MERO" is taking place. All of this, I repeat, is licensed environmentally and particularly for trees and plants. There is a record table in detail by species, height, torso thickness, as well as too many photographs I will present in the Minutes. Subsequently, and in accordance with the requirements of a specific environmental impact study, a specific urban and flora protection study has been drawn up and approved, detailing trees and bushes which can be planted according to their size and species. The new planting sites were proved by the competent agency of the Municipality of Athens and the plantation rate in Kolonaki Square is very high above 75%. I'll also be able to submit a list of where the trees and bushes are actually planting. On this point, let me say something else. We took a very important initiative with the Municipality of Athens. We sat all this time following the mandate of Kostas Karamanlis Minister, we worked with the Mayor Kostas Bakoyannis and created a memorandum of cooperation that will be signed by the Ministry of Infrastructure by "ATITI METRO S.A.", "ANAPPLASIS S.A.", and by the Municipality of Athens on the issue of trees and the protection of the environment. So all stakeholders will draw up and sign and include this memorandum of buying and planting two thousand extra trees only for the Municipality of Athens in spaces within the administrative limits. And you know this is the first time that's been happening in Attica and Thessaloniki. This is the first time that the green balance, this balance so badly needed by the capital, we are increasing it right now and increasing it after we have done a very large infrastructure project. This is very important and I would like you to stress this in your contact with the inhabitants of Athens, because the work done by both the municipality and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, as well as by all the stakeholders, is very important. Thank you very much. For what you need, I'll be back in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u199	First of all, the fact that they were transformed is what we call journalistically very large news and I would like to see more numerical details, because I am sure that with the Municipality of Athens and the very active and experienced Prasinos Service of the Municipality of Athens you will have made the relevant list. By the way, you will allow me, because it is the days that we have spent on the eve of "Elpida" - God will make it hope - to ask if it has been planned, I suspect, that thousands of trees will be planted in Athens resurrected, but in bad weather, because what we are living with the climate crisis is learning and details that we are not experts before. I am also very pleased to be working with the Municipality of Athens, which I have been a municipal councillor for twenty years, and I know the whole situation very well and I will tell you why. I read today in a newspaper that Mayor Costas Bakoyannis asked to have the ultimate collaboration and surveillance especially for the Athens Squares, and I will report to you the tragic experience of the Athenians and not only from Kolonaki Square, which I do not hide that I personally was delighted that he was devastated and I wish that the surrounding space with those inappropriate, dangerous tiles, because Cologne Square had become - and I had again risen since then - was not the work of the Municipality of Athens, which many badly blame it was the work of the Municipality of Athens. It was the work of the Ministry of Education at the time, which did not have the experience, while the architectural competition did highlight a very good architectural design. To be objective. Emotionally, that was very good work. Only the architects don't walk, they're not the people of the market, and as a result this square of many scales, if you remember, could not give breath. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Another thing that is the most powerful argument for me, now that you've covered me that they don't kill the trees but then they plant, so we have salvation on this issue, is that they must understand at some point that the metro is best in Cologne Square, rather than down all the north, east, west and south suburbs and drink coffee at the known points of Cologne, because Patriarch Joachim and Canaries are the worst traffic routes that exist in the center of Athens morning- noon-night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u200	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Pipilis, I should like to begin with a piece of your position because, in fact, this intervention helps the citizens of Athens, the citizens of the Lefkanopidi to understand some things. This time the state, the government, is in a good cooperation with the Municipality of Athens. We work together in the direction of the Athenians in the coming years to have both metro and trees. I didn't tell you in detail about the evidence - and believe me that I have the evidence - about the transplants and all of this. I think, however, that the Municipality of Athens today announced them, so I can table a list of how much they have been planted in the nursery of the Municipality of Athens, how much they have gone to Michalakopoulou, how much they are in Madrid Square, how much they are in the Eleftheria park, as well as the two Platanies which were temporarily taken to the nursery of the Municipality of Athens. Be sure, however, that both Kostas Karamanlis and Kostas Bakogiannis are very interested in the green balance in Athens to increase and not decrease. Now, as far as the trees chosen are concerned, you are absolutely right. But we anticipated that, too. The trees are therefore chosen in collaboration with the Municipality of Athens, in order to be acclimatized in the urban environment, with a good response to the stress caused by the pollutants of the urban area and always taking into account the plant past of the area in an effort to connect and recall the earlier treaty and this area. I think I've given you quite a lot of good evidence. But at this point, I would also like to present the picture of the square at the Panormos station of how we have intervened as an ATTITRO and how we have increased and created, in fact, a green lung for the area, as well as for the square, as well as what our intervention is in Peristeri and Keramikos, the recently delivered station in Korydalos, as well as what plant-technical studies we have done to restore these sites. Be assured that the Ministry of Infrastructure, the government, is working firmly to develop our country's infrastructure, first and foremost with respect to the environment, but also with regard to the generations that come. Know that we have a rule: and development and respect for the environment. After all, one without the other has no value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall now proceed to a short break because there has been a sudden closure to the Minister, but also to the Members who followed the list of topical questions. So we're interrupting for a few minutes and we're coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We continue with the debate on the first under number 331/21-1-2022 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christina Alexopoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: “Electronic Register of Sports Associations (No. 142, L4714/2020)’ The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Leuteris Aygeakis. Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, amateur sports clubs are the cell of sport in our country, as well as the nursery for tomorrow's champions and national successes. Unfortunately, for years, however, there has been a foggy landscape with regard to these associations, so that the citizens do not know what the official and licensed and who they are not. It is well known, moreover, that there was an absolute sluggishness in the field of sports clubs, with each federation stating an approximate number, which had nothing to do with reality. An unpleasant result of the intimacy that existed in the space is the individual cases of sexual assault or abuse by coaches and actors against sports that have finally seen the light of publicity. It is immediately understood that the agony in parents is great, who trust their children to coaches who are not officially registered anywhere. The economic impact of the sport pandemic is also great and in some cases the viability of clubs is threatened, since they have been without activity for months, with the result that coaches and other workers are not paid and facilities are not maintained. It should be stressed that areas relating to sport represent 2.12% of the European Union's Gross Domestic Product and 2.72% of jobs within the Union. We realise how important the revenues from amateur sport for the national economy and employment are. In an opinion of the European Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education, it is stated that on the basis of professional sport there is the mass popular sport and its pillar, small amateur clubs which make a significant contribution to the development of young athletes who operate mainly on a voluntary basis. It notes that thirty-five million amateur athletes contribute to the development of sporting mass participation and the dissemination of sports values. The government has taken great steps to restructure sport in our country, the largest since 2004, the Olympic Games. It is only enough to say that in the last 12 months, a total of EUR 100 million has been allocated to support it. Under Article 142 of Law 4714/2020, the General Secretariat of Sports is to be maintained by an electronic register, which registers all amateur clubs bearing the special athletic recognition provided for in Article 8 of Law 2725/1999. The registration of each association with its particulars laid down by a decision of the competent Minister shall be done diligently and with the responsibility of the Management Board and shall be subject to notification without delay of the changes to the records kept, in order to inform the kept registers. The Register of Sports Associations shall constitute an official source of information for each citizen as a sporting association or as a General Secretariat of Sports may freely post on the Internet accessible to the public electronic application to confirm the registration of specific clubs in the register. In addition, grants from the relevant Ministry will be given to the associations in question with absolute transparency and information to everyone. The principle has been made by the Joint Ministerial Decision of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vesyropoulos, and of course your Minister, and the amount of EUR 31 million was paid as an advance to all sports amateur associations. In particular, according to the CIA, this amount has been allocated as follows: in national championships 26%, in other amateur clubs 35%, in European organisations 9% and in national groups 30%. The criteria for calculating the amount received by each amateur club are entirely objective and transparent. In particular is the number of sports that each sports club cultivates and for which it has received special athletic recognition from the General Secretariat of Sports, the number of coaches it employs, as stated in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations and, of course, the number of athletes registered in the club as it is also declared in the Register, the annual income of the association as reflected in the account of the association which is declared in the Electronic Register. Especially in terms of the advance payment of EUR 31 million to amateur clubs, regardless of the units collected by each sports club, the sum of EUR 1,600 was taken as a basis. It is worth mentioning here, Minister, that forty-eight unions from Achaea were registered in May 2021, which were sponsored by the General Secretariat of Sports. It is also very good that, in December of the same year, clubs fulfilling the strict criteria for registering in the Electronic Register were increased to a hundred seventy-two, and received a total of about 420,000 euros from the advance payment. In view of the above, Minister, I would like to ask what stage the Register of Sports Unions is in place today. Will there be an extension with the creation of a register of coaches and athletes so that citizens and especially parents know whether their child coach is registered and licensed for this? In what ways will unions continue to be subsidised to cope with the consequences of pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u205	Good. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, today's question gives me the opportunity to refer to the revolution of self-evidentity, because this is our original reform, the reform of self-evident and sport, which is what the government is serving as a whole and is rewarding - certainly, this is the result of yesterday's debate and vote - of most of the Greek society. So the country’s sports family has waited for selfishness for many years in sport. Because I consider it self-evident that there should be a register of amateur sports clubs. I think it is self-evident that we all know how many sports clubs there are and what struggles they are developing. I also consider it self-evident that unions operate under the conditions laid down by the law itself. Unfortunately, in Greece of the 21st century many of the self-evident were considered unrealistic and inconsistent. You know, in April 2020 we decided to include sport in support measures from the consequences of the pandemic. So I asked the federations in principle, since our services at the Ministry did not know about the number of active unions. My few responded, and most of the federations also gave me the wrong evidence. The point is, nobody knew, ataxia and opacity. So we did the self-evident thing. We decided to house the sports landscape, put order, always through transparent procedures in a semi-legality regime that existed. In sports clubs to enter a series and everyone with no exception of knowing, having full picture and free access. With our sports reform we make the self-evident, for the first time operating a register of amateur sports clubs. In other words, for the self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis had to come and do so together. Not only because they are now recognised by the state, not only because they now have the right to direct financial support from the state, but also because all active and legitimate have the right to vote now. In other words, we give strength to the voice of sound amateur and legitimate sport, which is the basis of the sport pyramid. So we connected the record to the antiquities. They may acquire the right to elect only active and legitimate amateur clubs, registered in the Ministry of Sports Register. It must be self-evident, practically, to support amateur sport by giving direct grants to clubs. For their direct support we gave 13.5 million initially in the year that passed, and then the sum of 21 million plus 10 million more through their federations. At the same time, we ensured that the Register of Specially Recognised Sports Associations is kept. A sports club that does not bear the special athletic recognition and has not been registered in the Online Register of Sports Associations cannot use sports facilities owned by the Ministry of Sports legal persons under public and private law. Commonly the lawmaker has the favor, the lawmaker should decide what path he's going to take, the order or the illegal operation. When we introduced the register, we heard a strong criticism from Achaea too, you remember it. Even through this Chamber we were attacked. But he didn't sweat our ears because we know we're doing the right thing, that we're doing the right thing. And yes, we did. The best answer comes today from the clubs themselves, who have acquired voice and role, have stood up. The truly active unions, which are enrolled or are along the way to register and who want to be legal, housewives and develop the sports that they already have in their ranks or add others, have voice, have entity, have recognition. They stand as equal interlocutors with the Ministry itself, with their federations, but of course also with the Hellenic Olympic Committee and the Paralympic Committee. We are teammates in reform for the benefit of the entire sporting family. About five thousand amateur unions entered the registry process and many others failed to respond to the time limits. Of course we'll reopen the register next time. I'll tell my dentistry in detail. We are also creating the register of the sports infrastructure of our country through the 'POLOPA' - another need, another great gap - so that we can have a full picture of the sports infrastructure of the whole country, whether it is infrastructure belonging to the Ministry of Sport, whether it is infrastructure belonging to the municipalities and regions. And we don't stop here. Already with Law 4726 we have established the Coach Register. Since October 2020, immediately after the vote on No 4726/2020, we have opened a new round of consultation with all stakeholders on the issue and arrived at the provisions of No 4809/2021, which is what it is doing? It regulates the landscape in our country in the field of training and, of course, all active trainers and potential trainers. We are creating a digital record in the context of the general household that we want to have in this sporting structure that we have received and which we want to deliver. In conclusion, I would like to mention that in the context of the digital transformation of sport with the cooperation of the Ministry of Digital Governance and the Information Society, we create an additional Register of Distinguished Sportsmens, Register of Supervisory Entities, Register of Financial Entities, Register of Sports Regulations of the International Sports Federations, Register of Mediators of Sports Contracts and Register of Fashion Clubs. We are moving forward in a healthy, powerful sports structure with a clear political orientation to support the base of this building, which is our country's amateur sports clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u207	Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister. Albert Camy said that "all I know about morality and the sense of duty I have learned from football". We should therefore give every Greek of all ages the opportunity to engage in and learn the principles of "fighting" through unions licensed and certified for the services they offer. In your answer, we realise that you and the relevant agencies of the Ministry have listened to the anxiety of the athletes and parents of the young children who are now entering sport. We are proud that in just two years the sports reform of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has begun to bear fruit and has changed the landscape in this many space, in effect supporting our athletes and athletes. The evidence you have given us shows that you are moving on the basis of a concrete plan, which has as its centre the athlete and the club on the one hand and the European authorities on the other, as analysed in the Commission's 2007 White Paper on Sport. I would remind you that the main objectives set by the White Paper are to promote public health through physical exercise, to stimulate voluntary activities, to strengthen the economic dimension of sport and the free movement of players, and finally to combat pharmacopoeia or doping. Also under the fourth programme of European Sports Ministers 2021-2024, physical exercise has a pre-existing position with investments in sport to improve health, including creating opportunities within it for all generations to be recorded as a key priority. The project also aims to strengthen recovery and resilience to the crisis in this area, both during and after the end of the COVID-19 pandemic. For these reasons, support for amateur sport is a key option. After all, there is a healthy part of the space, which is based on the will, the anguish and the efforts of people who live for it and its great benefits. Especially the part of the coaches is particularly serious because they are those who come in contact with minors and adult athletes every day. Unfortunately, the incidents that have come to the public are stagnating the chastity of sport, and that is what the state must, and it already does, prevent it. At the same time, however, appropriate incentives must be found in order for victims of sexual assault in the area to report the facts immediately and unreasonably and to be given justice. We know that you have done a great deal in this direction, and we have to put this before you too. The darkness of fear finally gives its place to the light of righteousness. Minister, the path to the resolution of Greek sport is not easy, on the contrary it is difficult and upside. It is, however, a road that we must follow, so that we can all enjoy a healthy, safe and open sport for all. The work you have done on amateur unions is positive and it is certain that you will move on to even greater reforms with the Olympic saying: Faster, higher, stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u209	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs Alexopoulou, my dear colleague. As I mentioned in my prototype, our aim is to embrace the entire sporting family without any exception, to enable all legally active amateur unions to take their place and acquire rights, and yes, to receive funding. In 2020, four thousand thirty-four amateur unions successfully completed their registration and were fully legal and well-equipped. In 2021 four thousand eight hundred eight hundred amateur unions successfully completed their registration and, of course, proceeded with the corresponding funding. These were added and recently seventy-two unions that had initially been unsuccessful to register because of some of the system's technical failures, we checked their data, reviewed the data and recognized the failures and weaknesses in these specific cases along with our services. After all, we have said so from the outset, we are positive, we are prepared to assess the data, and our main goal remains as many amateur sports clubs as possible to register. It is a matter of transparency, it is a matter of keeping the lawfulness, it is a matter of essential and effective operation of the sporting building. So we have been eloquently in the four thousand eighty - eighty - eighty amateur unions who successfully completed their registration and were perfectly legal and settled for 2021. In this year, therefore, we have a significant increase in the eight hundred forty-six unions, and of course we continue for 2022. It will reopen the register and we hope that this figure will increase considerably. So I am very pleased to announce that, in February, the Ministerial Decision will be published in the Official Journal of the Government and the platform that will be able to accept new applications will be reopened. In February, therefore, all unions will be able to initiate the procedure for submitting their requests. That Ministerial Decision will regulate all issues and details, firstly, for an application for registration of a sports club with special athletic recognition in the Online Register of amateur Sports Associations, secondly, for the update of the information already registered in the Electronic Register and thirdly for the control of the application for registration and update. In a few weeks' time, we'll reopen the platform and invite all the unions to participate. We want a big, healthy amateur union base. I would like to make it clear here that the associations registered in the Electronic Register in the year 2021 are required to update the required data. We put class and house our country's sports structure. We support amateur unions - it is clear - we support our athletes, we act on sports reform and we act on our commitments above all. We did the self-evident thing. We decided to house the sports landscape. This proves, as you quite rightly said, Mrs Alexopoulou, through the funding of EUR 31.5 million in the last days of our time, but also in the next few days, the rest of the 31.5 million that we have committed to amateur sport is paid for. In total, we have 100m euros directly to sport in the year that passed by the Mitsotakis Government. The vast majority of the sporting family - I would like to say on the occasion and the question you are asking me - has shown during the last period an admirable discipline in the implementation of the rules and measures in the fight against pandemic. On the occasion of your question, therefore, let me say a public thank you to all, actors, athletes and parents who have also contributed to a maximum extent to ensure that all the protocols are respected and with very small exceptions to the sporting structure, that the sports family has also contributed to the effort to tackle the pandemic. Mrs Alexopoulou, be sure that we are making a great effort at all levels. You have raised many aspects of sport. We are happy to discuss the question of anti-doping and the issue of "MeToo", which I know you are interested in and have taken many initiatives at local and parliamentary level, but also in every way we are prepared to contribute to all efforts to strengthen messages such as those you are transmitting through your initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u211	And we thank the Minister. We continue with the first, with number 325/18-1-2022, a top-level question by the New Democracy MP, Neocles Cretan to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Supporting the State in the Sports Union and how the distributed payments to amateur clubs are paid". Mr Cretan has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. You seem to have your honour, Mr. Undersecretary, today. Well, dear Secretary-General, it was made known to the general public by the Press Office of the General Secretariat of Sports on 3-12-2021 that the payouts to the four thousand eight amateur clubs of all sports throughout the country were started, more, of course, by strengthening amateur championships and development classes, which are registered in the Office of Sports Clubs of 2021, in twenty-nine amateur groups struggling at European events of men and women, in our national teams of all age groups, in all of the federations of Olympic sports and not, but also in the Greek Olympic Committee and in the Greek Paralympic Committee for the advance and paralympic teams of our players. It is a pretext that this move on the part of the state is important, as it finds a new tool of financial support for sports clubs and groups and in this respect strengthens efforts to develop their actions. In this context, Mr Secretary, not only the MP but also the old athlete of the track, which justifies my strong interest in sports clubs and sport in general, I hope that this move on the side of the state will be permanent and that it will be further upgraded. To this end, and for the knowledge of our fellow citizens, I would like you to inform us, Minister, of the following: How is this money distributed to the various unions and groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u213	Mr Augias has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I should like to wait for this question from you, because you come from sport, active for many years, but active in the parliamentary sphere, I must say, and I congratulate you, as an older colleague, on your course and your activity here and in your prefecture. I would like to thank you for the question you are asking me, because you are giving me the opportunity to inform the House of the policies that we have put forward for the financial support of amateur sport. We would be blind, Mr Colleague, if we did not realize that the sport sector was severely affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Championships - I remember - were interrupted international organisations - which, with the trouble of claiming and planning - were suspended, planted. I experienced the emotional pressure of all those who were forced to deprive their second home, the place they are running, training and staying incarcerated for a long time, as all of us did, especially in the first period. But at the Ministry of Sports we didn't sit with our hands crossed. We have taken care of the substantial financial support for sport as a whole. We have arranged for the immediate integration of sports clubs into the social umbrella to address the consequences of the coronary, by subjecting them to the additional SAR for support measures during the first lockdown period. The national sports centres supervised by the Ministry of Sports both in 2020 and in 2021 in brave financial facilities to amateur sports clubs, and if necessary - if we have such samples - we will do so in 2022. With basic philosophy, the substantial support of amateur sport and in excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we proceeded to the direct grant of amateur sports clubs for their direct support, which had not been made in the last fifteen years, with absolute transparency and above all with objective and well-known ex ante criteria, which is the definition of direct support for the base of sport, the revolution of self-evident, as I said earlier. Already in May 2021, both phases of financial support had been paid to a total of four thousand six hundred ninety-one amateur clubs legally and actively, which had reached 13,300,000 euros. We proceeded - I recall - to tax reductions for the benefit of sport. In Law 466/2019 we predicted a reduction of the tax rate to 22% from 45% for the amounts paid by sports anonymous companies to athletes by signing the contract of registration or renewing or concluding a contract of cooperation, but also a reduction of 20% from 10% in the amount of donations to amateur clubs. With Law 4714/2020, tickets to sports games are subject to a reduced rate of VAT of 13% from 24% before, the taxation of coaches' income is similar to that of paid athletes at 22% of the 45% that was up to a pretext and, of course, we have resolved a reasonable demand for many amateur sports clubs as far as the movements of their athletes are concerned. Law 4535/2020 provides money to sports clubs for the promotion of their sport, as well as for the costs of traveling sports and sports clubs located in their region and participating in national Olympic sports championships. The provisions exclude sporting anonymity companies. I would also remind you that under Law 4819 we voted for a provision for amateur athletes, which stipulates that athletes who are struggling in clubs participating in the championships of amateur classes can sign a private sports service agreement on this subject, which will be submitted to the respective federations. They may, in other words, have insurance cover, which is quite obvious here, but we have done so. For years it has been a request from the athletes. With this provision, if it were before, they could also have been strengthened by the 'protection net' that our Government opened up for all the professionals affected by the first lockdown. Of course, we also anticipated the financing of sports teams from revenues resulting from the new way of taxing the profits of gamblers. With Law 4764, we have introduced to the General Secretariat of Sports - or, more appropriately, to the Ministry of Sport - 60% of the State's additional revenue now generated by the new way of taxation, in order to make sport available. Of these 50% are distributed to professional sport and 50% to amateur sport. With joint ministerial decisions with the Ministry of Finance, we specified the distribution criteria, the distribution rates in professional sport, the distribution rates from the participation of associations in European events and in national groups, as well as the criteria for funding amateur sports clubs from the profits of the "Structure". As aid from the pandemic's effects, advances in professional sport amounting to 31 million have already been made and the exact equivalent amount for amateurs has also been given. I would remind you, however, that amateur sport had also received in early 2021 the sum of 13.5 million. Approximately 100 million were provided by this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis directly to sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Cretan, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary, for the answer. I was actually covered in the first part, because it was comprehensive and extensive and we can thus have an answer, that is to say, know what is going on, because the questions I was accepting were too many, so I asked you this timely question. I take this opportunity to tell you that, because of the pandemic and the crisis, as you know, a lot of people have been affected, the sports space has also been affected, but the operation of sports clubs has also been affected. What have we given as financial support all this time? What has the state given for this time, Secretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, the Ministry of Sports has shared and moved on to the financial support of amateur sports clubs, as I mentioned in my protagonist. We have shaped and implemented a series of measures to support amateur sport, which the majority of representatives of amateur sport have welcomed. With regard to the financing of amateur sports clubs by the profits of the “Standard”, associated with the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr.Kylakakis and the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Veyropoulos, four thousand eight hundred and eight hundred amateur clubs of all sports from all over the country were supported and further strengthened by amateur championships and development charges. Twenty-nine amateur groups were strengthened, struggling at European events, men and women, our national teams of all age groups, all federations, Olympic sports and not, but also paralympic sports. The Hellenic Olympic Committee and the Greek Paralympic Committee for their protolympic and paralympic teams were strengthened. Already in the first phase of payment of EUR 31 million were distributed in December, New Year's Eve, EUR 20,986,471 to four thousand eight hundred amateur clubs, registered in the Register of Sports Associations. They received the 21 out of 31 million euros of the advance. The necessary prerequisite: Beneficiaries of funding are only amateur clubs registered in the electronic register of the Ministry of Sports in 2021. We have established and implemented a fair system based on the principles of transparency, equality and dignity. For the calculation of the amount that each amateur club receives with a minimum base of EUR 1,600, the following criteria shall be taken into account: First, the number of sports it grows and for which it has already received sporting recognition from the Ministry of Sports, the number of coaches it employs, as is stated in the electronic register of sports clubs, the number of athletes registered in the club, as it is declared in the electronic register of sports clubs and in any case the number of athletes cannot exceed 50 per coach. It also matters - and they are evaluated - the annual expenses of the association, as reflected in the accounts, which is also declared in the register. We know there are complaints and ideas for even greater improvement. So we say that, yes, we hear everything, we record everything and we move forward in the next period for even fairer distribution, when our register is of course even more enriched, so we can be absolutely clear and fair in every distribution of any amount. Also, in addition to the sports clubs I mentioned, they were financed by the allocation of 31 million and the Hellenic Olympic Committee with the sum of 465,000 euros, as well as the Greek Paralympic Committee with the sum of 465,000 euros, as well as the remaining 10 million, which were left, from the first allocation that took place on New Year's Eve. Today, Monday, the federations are closing the deadline for completing their national economic data in order to strengthen beyond the regular funding received in the year which has passed and which will, of course, also receive the 'current' year with an extra amount for members of national teams, whether in group or individual sports. Be careful, this is the first time that the state, the government, is establishing an amount guarantee only for national groups. It is dismantling the burden of the federations for the reinforcement of the unions, and the State itself is undertaking it by direct financing, it is dismantling the burden of the federation for any money it has had to pay for any anti-doping checks by the EEC. It was a provision that the previous government had passed. We abolished it, and we did it right. We are currently providing for a certain amount only for the members of the national teams, so that we do not relive images of athletes who were tearn up and dismantled by their over-treated efforts to reach the Olympic Games, frustrated they said their complaint and said their complaint. We have heard them, adopted provisions, and we have results. And for the first time, there is care from the Greek state, from our Government for the direct reinforcement of all members of the national teams. That is how we are moving, Mr Colleague, so we are working, so we will continue to work transparently, without any discrimination on the basis of clear political orientation. Amateur sports clubs are the basis of the sport pyramid and our athletes. Because without them, we don't have a future. And because some make the separation between professionals and amateur athletes, we tell them that all athletes started by amateurs, from the base. And they once got high. And we are happy for those who have arrived high and represent us in large events like Olympians. Nevertheless, we respect everyone who is enabled and owned by the great sports family of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u219	The fourth question, with number 341/24-1-2022, will be discussed now by the fourth question of the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'To abolish the unacceptable regulation which makes the establishment of Sections of Integration from all pupils of the school'. The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we are coming back to the question that we submitted to you on 24-11-2021 on the abolition of the anti-disciplinary and anti-educational legislation of 2019 with Law 4933 in Article 28. It is, of course, the previous SYRIZA government, which you too are the government of New Democracy. It provides for more than two hundred fifty schoolchildren to attend the school, of whom at least fifteen will be consulted by the CEDEFOP in order to place two teachers at school. The results of this anti-educational, anti-linguistic policy are made handcuffed at the Elementary School of Kokkini Hani in the Municipality of Hersonissos, Crete, when the opinions at the beginning of the school year reached thirty-five but the second part was not founded because there are two hundred forty students attending the school and not two hundred fifty students. In fact, in reply to our question that the Kokkini Hani Municipal School is not the prerequisite laid down by the law to operate a second membership section. In practice, and while you see legislation being unfair, because the criterion should not be the number of pupils, but the needs, you are thus despising the right of children with learning difficulties to have the right to pedagogical support within the school environment. You consider it an extra cost by circumventing scientific advice and not to mention the consequences for children's education and psychology. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You also transfer responsibility to parents who are forced to support their children by resorting to a private special or special home teacher from their already reduced income. Of course, there are dozens or hundreds of primary and secondary schools all over Greece in which, despite the needs of them, there are no branches of integration at all. In the country's high school, there is no part of the integration process, as if the needs of these pupils have ceased. At the same time, there are no necessary or many of those created on paper. The government is, therefore, exposed to parents, teachers, above all to their own pupils, since I would say with an excess - easily and frequently the legislative framework by means of legislative acts is changed when it comes to the needs of business speeches, but it is a question of meeting people's needs and in this case supporting pupils and pupils with special educational needs. So we are asking you, Madam Secretary, what measures will you take so that now, as soon as possible, this unacceptable arrangement is abolished which makes it conditional on all school pupils being integrated into emergency procedures and on the recruitment of the necessary special training staff the required number of places of entry to the Kockini Hani Municipal School and to any other schools in the country that they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u221	Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u222	Mr Colleague, I am not going to have an ideological controversy about teaching and the interests of private education. Three days we had such an ideological conversation, among other things here in the House. I will answer you in general on the issues of special treatment and especially on what you say in your question. I believe that everyone in this Chamber and we in the New Democracy are, in practice, particularly sensitive to the follow-up of pupils and pupils with disabilities and special educational needs. This is achieved, as you know, through the inclusion departments and also with the institution of parallel support for all school units in general and specific education. The sensitivity I have told you that it has in practice been demonstrated by the four and a half thousand appointments to special education in the school year 2020 - 2021, which was the first in educational time. But also from the sixteen thousand, eighty - four total permanent appointments of teachers over the last two years. In addition, fellow Member, in the current school year forty-three thousand alternate teachers and members of special scientific staff and assistant staff have been recruited to support, among other things, pupils with disabilities and pupils with special educational needs. As part of this approach to the coordination of pupils and disabilities and specific educational needs, the establishment and functioning of the integration departments is also part of the establishment and operation of the integration departments. The purpose of these sections is to complete the integration of pupils with special educational needs or with disabilities in the school environment through special educational interventions. The instructor of the Integration Department supports pupils in the classroom environment in collaboration with class teachers with the aim of diversifying the activities and regular practices as well as appropriate adaptation of the educational material and the educational environment. Support in a particular area shall be implemented as long as it requires particular educational needs of students with the ultimate objective of enabling future support for the environment of their class. According to the first subparagraph of Article 6(1) of Law No.3699/2008, as replaced by Article 28(1) of Law No.4638/2019, in the departments of integration of primary school units in which they are studying as two hundred fifty pupils - which is why the answer was that it is not provided by the legal framework, because it is not provided - a teacher is placed. While more than two hundred fifty students attending school units, of which at least fifteen with a diagnosed disability and special educational needs from a competent public body, i.e. the KEDASY or an medical establishment or a public hospital, two teachers are placed. At the school to which you refer, at the Kockkini Hani Municipal School in Heraklion, it has been established and operates an integration section with a department and an educational teacher, in which, in the current school year, nineteen students are attending a total of twenty-six and not thirty-five, as you write in your question. It is, in other words, twenty-six students with an opinion on a part-session. As far as the operation of the second section is concerned, I will reply once again that the condition laid down by the law is not fulfilled. He was voted on by the previous government. It applies from ours. I would like to inform you by closing my theology that it is under way to establish new places of integration. Heraklion Primary Education Department has proposed the establishment of twenty-three new places of entry into kindergarten and municipal school in Heraklion, provided that the conditions of the law are met. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u224	Madam Secretary, you didn't answer. You have read us the arrangement that I mentioned in my prototype. Repeat the problem at Kokkini Hani's school. I wanted a response from the government's side if it could solve the problem. The most wise and necessary answer, if there is indeed a sensitivity on the part of the government, would be 'to see it again, to rethink the question of changing the regulation'. You not only change regulation but you say that you will create new branches of integration based on what is laid down in the law. In other words, not on the basis of the actual needs of schools, that is, on the basis of the actual number of children who need to join such departments. Therefore, this regulation does not meet and does not meet the actual needs of the pupils in the specific educational intervention it needs, on the basis of modern needs and capabilities. It's not just the JRC. I shall submit to the Minutes the letter of the parents you have, and tell you what I am telling you. But I would add that, in order to implement this arrangement, which was of the SYRIZA, and you are implementing it, neither is the early diagnosis on a purely scientific basis. The first approach - be careful - is made at school, not by experts but by teachers themselves, and when this first approach fails, it goes to specialists. Yes, but it has been a very long time, the critical time that decisions need to be made. And we explain that during the school year 2020 - 2021, the opinions of Heraklion's CEDEFOP at school, this at Kokkini Hani, were for thirty children, for attending inclusion courses, of which they did not attend ten, by decision of the school. After two years of pandemic, children who studied in the 4th and 4th grades, today V and VI respectively, were not assisted by any personalized programs. I told you in the theology that parents pay private or private, special or special tutorial at home, at the expense of family planning, but also based on financial difficulties. We believe that the gap that the school leaves at their expense is impossible to fill under these circumstances. The proper teaching support within the school environment is the one that will give them confidence and make them feel worthwhile and contribute to their better social and psychological development. This year, indeed, children of V and VI will not be able to attend the integration section, following a directive by the primary school counsellor, in the view that it is necessary to support the children of the first grades of primary school, without there being a special opinion of the KEDASY - as far as I know, however, it may have come out. As you can see, such a tumor of students, thirty-five in the number, and those who are to be diagnosed - an unknown number yet - makes the effective role of special education difficult or almost impossible. The logic says that the organic posts should relate to the number of students in the inclusion departments and not to the total number of school pupils, which is set up and implemented by you. The specific limits you have set are completely unscientific. They're unscientific, don't get wrong. Because when a child has a problem, and you tell him that it will not enter the membership section, because the arrangement says that it exceeds the total number of school, I beg your pardon, that is also uneducational and anti-educational. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We therefore consider that you should abolish this provision - and here and now - create all the necessary sections of inclusion in schools where there is need, without cuts and anti-educational limits, to serve all the structures of special education with the necessary permanent staff, with all the skills and, of course, to simulate all the necessary teaching staff who have been working in education in recent years and to be recruited, in addition, on the basis of the real needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u225	Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't get any misunderstandings at all. It is your right to ask. I think you misunderstood what I told you. The law we apply and the existing figures are not arbitrarily set by the Ministry. We're not pulling a line on a number that suits us or caress us. It's done with scientific data and criteria, and we're still applying it. As far as your question is concerned, because you have referred as an additional element the letter from the Parents' Association, of course, is important, but to us in the Ministry, and only to put a question by a colleague from the Communist Party, it is sufficient to give an appropriate answer. I will reply again to you with information to show you exactly what the process of covering gaps is, insisting that, as far as the law is concerned, if any different scientific data - and I do not precede anything, I am making it clear - are being taken into account by the Ministry, we will take them into account. At the moment, however, that we are talking about, there is nothing like this on our agenda. So I tell you that when the first day of the school year begins, the players involved, who are our Ministry, the regional education directorates, the primary and secondary departments, take the necessary steps to get the educational units to work smoothly. As far as Heraklion Primary Education Department is concerned, there have been seventy-seven permanent appointments of teachers in the last two years, sixty-six in the special education. In the current school year 2021-2022, there have been thousands of three hundred ninety-eight recruitments of assistants and assistants of scientific and assistant staff, of whom six hundred and sixty-two in special education and training structures. They have been particularly increased over the past two years. The increase, ladies and gentlemen, in the number of approvals is of the order of 125% to support teachers in parallel support and follow-up. And, of course, there is also an increase in the number of subsistence recruitments under the special educational support programme for the integration of disabled pupils and pupils and special educational needs. At Heraklion Primary Education, four hundred ten students are supported in the class by parallel educational support. The evidence shall demonstrate whether there is sensitivity and response or not. We are thus showing that - I repeat - I have said it at the beginning of my prototype, that we do not care about the rights of children with learning difficulties. Instead, by designing, with readiness, synergies and arrogant complex of the educational community, our schools continue their valuable educational work and contribute to the prevention and treatment of the pandemic and special needs that our children have and continue to have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the eighth, under number 342/24-1-2022, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The circular of the Ministry of Education on university exam". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Evangelos Syrigos will answer. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 10 January 2022 you took out a circular, a non-scientific and dangerous, after all, circular, for which they react - and quite rightly - students and universities, according to which they weigh on one hand the studies and on the other the health of students and teachers. Why, you know, when at a time when this pandemic - like the one we are now living on - is it the Ministry that all the winter tests, all the winter examinations, the universities will only be done physically and without any effective protection - as before and now the universities operate - then in practice what are you doing? You have students the dilemma to choose either their studies or their health. Already, as everyone knows, according to daily official reports of cases, this pandemic wave we are now living in is concerned with and is mainly manifested in young ages. So when you as a Ministry, as a government, only rely on the vaccine, without any other health measures on the substance, then the result, of course, is that universities, too, should be converted into outbreaks of the virus, with hundreds of patients with COVID, with asymptomatic - and not just - with close contacts of cases, under investigation of possible cases. And all these people are forced by your government circular to come to the exams, theatres, along with the vulnerable groups. As you can see, this is not and is certainly no health security environment. So we, too, are asking you, Mr Secretary-General, what are you going to do, of course, so that no student is excluded from the examination, taking advantage of all the possibilities and all the methods of examination, of living, of course, but of all the necessary dilution of the departments, of the remote examination - why is it excluded? - or even by work, which can be submitted by the students themselves and, in any case, of the special care they need for those who belong to them and those who belong to them, of course, to the vulnerable groups. It is true that they should be handed over and found - it is not difficult, you know - and those suitable places to be used for the examination. Your earlier decision from November must also be revoked - on November 16th - which canceled the teaching hours of telematics. And, of course, you must take all the necessary sanitary measures, which our language has had to say for two years now and which concern all education - and not just mass, free and repetitive tests, for the necessary traceability, for granting free high-protection masks to education, to increase those public transport routes. If you see how they are taken daily, students and students will go to their schools, you will understand. And, of course, we also need to provide an extraordinary fund so that the necessary massive and permanent hires of cleaners can also be made, so that the cleaning staff can increase and that the cleanliness that is needed today is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u229	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank my fellow Member for his question. To clarify a few things that are necessary to understand how the process is being done in universities. Universities at the beginning of each six-month period are announced the way in which the course will take place and also the way in which the examination will take place is announced. If a teacher chooses from the outset to examine through work or otherwise, it is only up to him. Therefore, if a professor has chosen to examine the work or other forms - I say joint work, individual work, presentations, anything - that is what is permitted by law and done. So we don't forbid it. But when we come to the examination process, this is where we need to ensure the credibility of the system first. I say this because, as a matter of urgency, in the course of the previous period of examination, we have, as a matter of urgency - and I repeat as a matter of urgency - proceeded to participation remotely, knowing that we cannot guarantee 100% of the examinations, but we had to adapt to this reality. Or the children, the students would not have given tests, or, if they had given examinations, they had to give them a period of distance. These conditions were when we didn't know what that coronary story was. I would remind you that at the beginning of this story, Mr Delis, we did not even know how the coronary was transmitted. We all wore gloves, no masks. We didn't know he was being broadcast from the air. There were no vaccines, no tests, nothing. Now we are in a phase in which we know how it is transmitted, we have the possibility of tracking new cases and we have before us a form of coronary which, from what we have seen up to now, seems to be relatively milder than in the past. These are the general elements that define our decision. One more general aspect is the number of vaccinated persons. The number of vaccinated between students is more than 85% and the number of those who have ever been vaccinated is 6%, that is, aggregating both to 91%. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall, however, interrupt here, Mr President, to go on with my dentistry, after what Mr Delis will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u231	Good, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u232	I heard you, Mr. Undersecretary. Of course, I will also be involved in a health debate, but it is no different. You spoke about the reliability of the system, you talked about how the examinations are being conducted and how the course is to be conducted from the outset. Only you forgot to say - because you did not say - that all this happens when there are normal conditions. In exceptional circumstances - because exceptional circumstances, extraordinary treaty is pandemic - all this can change and change, as you know it. Now you are trying to reinstate the previous regularity with your only alibi the vaccine and the rate - the high rate - of vaccination in universities. But, as you well know, Mr. Undersecretary, the vaccine does not prevent transmission, it does not even prevent illness. These exceptional health and dangerous conditions therefore continue to apply. So we cannot just hide behind the vaccine and care for all the other cases and all the other health safety criteria that need to be taken. And I am talking about the most basic, the mask, the distances - certainly this is the main one - and all this is not satisfied. You are now coming and with a circular of yours - older circular, in November it was this circular, as I told you - you are actually threatening those students who are not on their own responsibility - the teacher chose the class to be televised, the teacher chose the lesson to be done in a specific way - and you say that for all of them they will not count, they will not be able to examine or pass their ratings on to those courses, because their teaching was remotely. This circular of yours has a date of November 16th. Let's go to today, to these students...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u233	You refer to the teaching period.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u234	Yeah, I'm talking about your Circle of November.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u235	For teaching.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u236	Yes, for teaching and you say that for these students this training process in which they took part will not be taken into account, without having decided. It was their professor's decision. Will you exclude them from the exam? Aren't their course scores going to pass? Will this teaching process not be recognised? Now we're going to the diseasers or they're going to get sick, because the examination has already begun. Apart from doing the test on their own responsibility and, of course, their own costs, it will depend on the professor or the university, on each institution - the good intention of both - to decide whether they can be examined at a different date. What if the universities decide not to be considered? What's gonna happen? What are these kids gonna do? And these kids and these students are enough, they're not few. Finally, we have told you - and I think everyone knows that - that universities - and that is characteristic, Minister - may be the area of education - that is, of course, with the smallest epidemiological surveillance right now. I'm not talking about the vaccination rate, I'm talking about the epidemiological surveillance. And in any case, what we're trying to tell you with this question, calling you as a ministry to take responsibility, is that in no case should all this extraordinary treaty that exists with the pandemic be paid for by students. The students either have learned by living their lessons or they have been taught them in another way - telematically or in any other way - we should recognise this process and take part in the winter examination, while, of course, respecting all those necessary health protection measures that I have mentioned and for which we would like to hear something from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u237	Good. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u238	Continuing from where I left it, the evolution of the percentage of the age group eighteen to twenty-three years in the new cases is 5.5% right now. In the hundred cases, that is, six cases are at that age. Also, because of the age and the curious way in which the coronary operates, it is clear that the risk of intubation is extremely small, and as far as the risk of death is concerned, fortunately, so far we have not had such cases, at least in the last few months that I have looked at the evidence. What does all this mean? They mean we have tests, most universities today started the examination period and students will enter the classrooms eight hours two, eight lessons will be given in the next five weeks. At eight or two hours they will be in rooms where they will in fact have distances from each other. Why do they have distances? For the sake of clarity of the examinations. When we have physical examinations there are distances between students, so that they do not copy one another. So we have eight or two hours instead of a daily presence with distances between students without talking to each other and masks. Objectively, the possibility of a problem is zero. I now come to what you said about the teaching period. What I wrote in the circular I don't say is the law, which defines thirteen weeks of teaching. You can't go without thirteen weeks of teaching to do tests, it's the minimum that is European-acceptable to think that a course has been sufficiently taught to pass the exam process. So what we said about the process of teaching is thirteen weeks by living. Why living? Because, as we all agree and as practice has shown so far, lifelong teaching is the best. That's what we all agree on. The practice has shown that there has been no problem over the last six months that the universities have operated. We don't have a request that came to the Ministry. Today all universities began, if I'm not mistaken, during the examination period. Someone had started before. Today all universities begin. Nowhere do we have a request to say that we did not complete 13 weeks, please give us an extension. In some cases, which may have created a problem due to the snow, the universities themselves have been extended for two or three days to go further than the procedure. Now let me tell you one more point. You say that universities are poorly protected against coronary. All universities were given a special amount of money in the past six months to be able to hire people who are examining student vaccination through the special applications, which are available on the subject. Last point, which is an objective problem, what happens if someone gets a coronary period, because that's what we're interested in. We're interested in kids going for tests without a problem. If someone gets sick, don't think about saying "let's hide it and go get an exam now so I don't lose the exam". That's why we use the edupass platform. In this application it seems that someone is 'green', that is, he can enter the room or if he is'red'. "Red" may be for many reasons, for example in a quarantine period for any reason. The person who appears in the system as'red' may, in consultation with the secretariat, ask the professor to go for examinations after the end of the examination, in any way the professor considers most appropriate, which will always ensure that the procedure is inconsistent. Now there is a number around 7%, 8% of students who do not have AMKA, do not have AMKA, do not have access to application, are mostly foreign students mostly, i.e. non-Greek citizens. We give them the opportunity to go and give tests showing evidence that they were ill at the time, that is, they were positive, not necessarily that they had symptoms, but in fact they were quarantine. This is how we rescue the whole process and for those who have suffered for the others and for them not to get stuck, and I think that the problems will be zero, as the act has shown over the past few months. In conclusion, I would like to say this. The world of universities has shown a great deal of responsibility compared to the rest of society against vaccination and against the coronary, and this is rewarded by the number of cases and the number of problems that have been created. It is extremely low, we have the best percentages from any other age group and social group. Let's say a big shot to the students, who rushed to be vaccinated much faster than the rest of the society, to the LPI members, who currently hold the record in a number of vaccinations in the rest of society and the administrative staff, which immediately after the LPI members have the highest percentage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with three topical questions of competence of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, to which Mr Georgios Stylos will answer. We begin with the 11th Question No 313/17-1-2022 on the second (transport) by MP Larissa of the Coalition - Radical Left Mr Vassilis Kolis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The economic consequences of the Green Agreement on cotton, apples, peaches and open tomato'. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Karastasis and Mr Kegeroglou for the concession of the series. Minister, the issue of the topical question is the Green Agreement and the possible impact it might have on basic crops in our country. Some of them are cotton, apples, horticultural, outdoor tomato, and peaches. Minister, the objectives of the Green Agreement are ambitious, they are legitimate, but they are also difficult. 25% of the cultivated area must be organic and there must be a 50% reduction in plant protection products. In particular, the aim of plant protection products may have an impact on these crops. On the occasion of a study by the Hellenic Plant Protection Association, which I will present, many of these plant protection products will be withdrawn. It will result in a 250% increase in the cost of production in cotton, indicatively and 30% reduction in production, both in apples and in tomato. You can understand that, if all these plant protection products are withdrawn, such as pesticides and pesticides and pesticides and metaphytosanitary products, there must be a plan or be replaced with other biological products or the Ministry should incorporate environmentally friendly practices into the national plan for the CFP in order to quickly adapt our farmers to this new era, because it is likely that the consequences will be very important for many of the crops and especially those I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Style, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, the Green Agreement is an integrated holistic philosophy and strategic response to the challenges of our time. And I think we have made it clear that we as a party, as a new Republic, are the party, the pro-European party and the party that has put our country in the European Union. I think that you, too, have accepted it in European policies, and that has ended for you too. So the Green Agreement is a collective strategy that gives us responses to challenges, such as climate change, environmental degradation, food hygiene, energy and economic sustainable development. It therefore recommends the roadmap for the coming years at the level of local and regional development, and we see this and take it from the reality. We are living in climate change, climate crisis constantly, and in winter and summer, with extreme phenomena, with extremist ices and heaters in the summer. So life itself comes and tells us that we must run and adopt this strategy, adopt changes, because nature calls us that. Significant reforms and interventions are therefore planned for the existing development and productive model for the Green Agreement. They are the actions of the Green Agreement, eight of which is the action for agriculture. From this future and from this strategy, Greece, a founding member of the European Union, could not be absent. That is why our country has participated in the strategic plan and is implementing organic farming at least 25% of agricultural land. The European system of agriculture and food is a model system for the rest of the world and Greece is taking the lead with its own strategic plan. That is why we have also taken care of the strategic plan that we tabled recently last December to lift the common agricultural policy, the CAP - as it is known - to meet the Green Agreement and work together. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The conditions laid down have not yet become specific at European Union level. Certainly one condition is to be below the European average and to have a 50% reduction in the use of plant protection by Member States. Greece even today, even at the moment, fulfils these specific conditions. So, then, we are here, the Ministry is here to assist the farmer with our plan, the plan that has a budget. The CFP provides EUR 19.3 billion for the next period. I have to say this again - and I would remind you again - that throughout the European Union the common agricultural policy, the budget, has had a 10% reduction. The only country to which we did not have a reduction in the budget is Greece, and that is something that our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has achieved. I shall refer more specifically to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u243	Good, Minister. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u244	Minister, if I have heard and understood correctly, because our country covers the average, will it not apply the target of 50% reduction in plant protection? I will wait for your answer, because the question moves on this condition that the objective is met: a reduction of up to 50% in plant protection products to meet these ambitious objectives of the Green Agreement. However, these are proposals that we are tabling - above all, you must also draw up a study of the possible impact on Greek agriculture. There must be a study of the effects of the reduction of plant protection products on cotton, apples, tomato and, accordingly, moving our country to adapt the primary sector to the new era. And to adjust, it's not just things, Minister, it requires knowledge, expertise and investment in equipment. There is one phrase: 'a very precise agriculture'. This is unknown for the majority of farmers. It needs to be made accessible. To reduce plant protection costs. Already in several countries it is done with ground robots or with aerial, with drones, which first photograph the field and find out if the whole field wants to lubricate and as the farmer moves. You understand how much the cost will be saved. Thirdly, there must be support for ecological plans. Fourthly, there must be training. The farmer must be trained and trained in environmentally friendly practices. Consider that fertiliser must be produced from plant residues, because synthetic, conventional fertilisers are likely to be withdrawn, so the crops will need protection to be productive. That is why we are asking what is the main strategic plan to make up for these possible losses from your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr. Style, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u246	I said that, at the moment, our country is below the European common average. So we should always catch the European average. We're down here today. The aim is to reduce by 50% at European Union level. So Greece has less distance to reach this lower limit, to go to the lower limit. The list of measures and actions to be taken by each country has not yet been specific. It's a conversation. We're here. On the other hand, as I have said before, we are implementing our plans and our strategy, so that we do not need to speed up or speed up, or take very immediate measures, by surpriseing the country's productive world and businesses and farmers, namely traders and farmers. In this philosophy, on this line, we already have some support measures for producers and farmers. What are these measures? In relation to, firstly, the direct payments that everyone receives and will continue to receive from now on, all Member States are obliged to devote 25% of their annual resources to direct payments to programmes for the climate, the environment and animal welfare. It's a specific article. Also, in this article on direct payments, the crops of apples, nut fruit, tomato and cotton are eligible for aid. So cotton is within 25% that should be placed in this direction. Now we go to the other pillar, to rural development. All Member States should give 35% of these actions, environmental, climate and animal welfare actions. There are specific actions, such as conversion aid. I said it before, the limit of the farmed land, to organically cultivate land, is 25%. We therefore have the conversion into organic practices and methods, where special funding is given to new entrants, so I am talking about young farmers, young farmers and livestock. They're eligible. So there too, the developmental strand includes apples, nucleus fruits, tomato and cotton. So both axes. Other tools have also been activated. Recently, last week, our Ministry declared measure 11 of organic farming, with a budget of EUR 490 million. In other words, the programme is already in the air, a great challenge for our producers to make their applications and to join organic farming. So they will also be prepared for what emerges and then come in the future. There are other programmes that are working, but all of them are in the direction of meeting the Green Agreement. And I am talking about the advisory programme, I am talking about advisory agriculture, a programme of 80 million euros. We have a axis and an action for information, education and training, and there are additional incentives for investment. I could talk too much to mention one by one. In all this, in the targeted promotion of organic crops, it is in cotton, aromatic medicinal plants, sesame plants, all of which, calculated as follows: if there is a shortage in these products at European Union level. The statistics tell us that there is a shortage and that is why we support and strengthen in this direction. In any case, you know - and the producers know - that the Ministry of Rural Development and the political leadership are always open to communication and dialogue with all actors in order to adopt proposals, study and be able to move forward for the benefit of Greek production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u247	Minister, thank you. We continue with our fourth question under number 315/17-1-2022 of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikolaos Papastasis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Extreme problems of the farmers of Epirus". Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the spring of this year, there were glacier phenomena in many parts of the country. Their main feature is their long duration and their diffusion in a large geographical area. In fact, there were extensive damages such as giant fruits, pears, apples, quinces, but also in nucleus fruits such as cherries, apricots, plums, peaches, sour cherries, etc... These losses were included in the allowances of the ELGA. But, respectively, the citrus fruits and olives were not included in the region of Epirus, and not only have they suffered a great deal of damage from the ices which hit - mainly the third 10th of March and the first of April - this region, which resulted in a significant reduction in production. In the year when this year's prices are going through both citrus and olives for another year, unfortunately, they do not leave a livelihood to farmers. It is the incarpia extensive, but also the increase in production costs in pesticides and fertilisers, but mainly in electricity, oil, etc. In addition, Epirus mandarin producers expect compensation for the huge loss of their income 2020 due to the vertical decrease in the price of clementine and oranges. The Government in response to a question from the JRC in December 1920, although it had admitted that the problem exists objectively, it was at the same time committed to the replacement of lost income, and for these "pays" it has done nothing so far. On the other hand - and this is understood by the most ignorant - it is a mockery that there have been announcements of EUR 70 per acre, since the loss of income is estimated to exceed EUR 250 per acre. And all this is happening at the same time when the bio-producers see, on the one hand, a continuous reduction in their income and, on the other hand, a truly challenging increase in the profits of the big traders and manufacturing industries. At the same time, the undeniable wave of accuracy further reduces already busted people's incomes, while making agricultural products difficult to access. So what is it that turns out? That once again the famous 'assistance of the primary sector', which is widely announced, is not concerned with the interests of the bio-producers, who see their dead ends growing. The questions we ask you are: First, what measures does the government intend to take in order to compensate directly for mandarin producers and orange producers from the detected loss of income in 2020 and to make compensation for all the crops affected by the changes in the weather which led to reduced production and incarnation and which, of course, are not compensated by the ELGA regulation? Secondly, what measures do you intend to take in order to reduce production costs, for example, the abolition of a adjustment clause, duty-free oil, etc., and to ensure lower guaranteed prices for agricultural products covering production costs and to leave producers with an income and affordable prices for products in popular consumption, which are truly easy to achieve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u249	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I begin with this, since you mentioned Epirus and Arta in particular, which is my own special homeland and the county that is voting for me and I represent it in the Greek Parliament. You know, I know it, too, and the whole world, that citrus is a very important crop for the rural economy in this region, Arta, Epirus and Thesprotia. The Government, by means of concrete measures and decisions, has moved on to support the loss of income you mentioned for these producers. What for? Because of the pandemic conditions, because of the administrative restriction measures that have been decided not to have the spread of pandemic and the effects it has had on the market, even though it would have been expected that the sales of citrus fruit would go well in the pandemic, so the price of raising up and there would have been increased ticks. With concrete actions, therefore, the government - the joint ministerial decision has already been signed - has decided to finance and support, strengthen producers for this loss of income by about EUR 3.5 million. I'm talking about clementine mandarins, which are 70 euros per acre. You're saying it's very little. If you were the ruler of the place, give much more. The government, however, by means of a method of household and social justice, with regard to all layers and, above all, respecting the Greek taxpayers' money, goes on to support these producers. With our other actions and actions, not by fragmentary measures, but by measures that are permanent and lasting, we are constantly proving that we are next to producers. I would like to inform you - and I have the opportunity to hear it and to see the producers in Arta and throughout the continent - about this. Last year we had ice cream in the spring of 2021. In particular, there were a thousand nine hundred damage statements submitted. They were compensated for about EUR 2 million in July 2021. It has never been done so far in the same year for the ELGA services to be able to make personalised assessments and for payment to be made in the same year. For the spring glacier in 2021, which did not only hit Epirus, but various regions throughout the country, as you said, the government took care of by a provision passed in July 2021, with Law 4820, and enabled advance payments to be made to support the producers in cash that are in need of it. It has thus managed to cover all those who are insured by the ELGA and are provided for in the ELGA regulation, which is legal. Our country has been afflicted in the past with a fine by the European Union when it tried to give money to producers and farmers who were not provided for and were not in accordance with Greek and Union law and were not in accordance with the ELGA regulation. These practices have remained in the past, because they then came, the Greek taxpayer paid several times. So whatever funding is given, whatever aid is in existence, will be given in a way that is legally and compatible with the law of the Hellenic Republic and the Union. So I tell you that a total of EUR 224 million has been provided by state aid across the country, through the PAA 126 million euros and if you want to add to it because of the pandemic and the repayable advance, which is EUR 250 million. In total, therefore, we have 350m euros, of which 270m euros for the whole country were granted between 2020 and 2021. Of this EUR 11 million is for the three-year period for the continent and almost EUR 9 million was granted in 2020-2021, which is inside and the spring frost of 2021, which you mentioned earlier. I referred to the clementines. I'll say one last thing about the olive tree. By a decision published and announced by both our Ministry and the Ministry of Finance, the amount of EUR 11,125,560 is set for those producers who have not received any money last year, namely 2020-2021. Those table olive producers who have not received money in the previous period, namely 2020-2021, have budgeted 11 million euros, with 40 euros the acre, to take them from now on. For the cost of production, I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I heard you carefully. You have quoted some figures, but in no case do those figures which you have told us, the millions, the hundreds, they do not compensate those who have suffered these disasters. That's what the farmer knows. The issue of disasters in agricultural production and their compensation is a predominant element of demand from the organized agricultural movement in every mobilisation it makes. It's gonna happen again now. The hail, drought, glaciers, rainfall, windstorms, but also plant and animal diseases permanently support the poor producer and farmer. And these, in combination with the timeless absence of protection works, leave them many times without harvest and without income. Unfortunately, this is a very common phenomenon. The pressure exerted by the organized rural movement on the racing initiatives through the rural clubs and federations in the affected regions forced the government to give the time it spent some money. However, these allowances, which are largely derived from the contributions of the farmers themselves to the ELGA, cannot cover the fact that over the last ten years all governments - not only the New Democracy Government, but also the previous SYRIZA - did not give the ELGA a franc from the state budget, depriving the agency of more than EUR 320 million, which should have gone to farmers' empty pockets. Our view is that the government has done so misleadingly in voting on this amendment and has urged it to be - your own phrase - "the first time after a number of years that ELGA so quickly repays the compensation due". But the truth is different. Apart from the fact that the estimates announced have nothing to do with the actual crop damage, the specific changes that brought your amendment do not alter the substance of the ELGA regulation. This is because it does not recognize whether it will compensate for all disasters in a number of cuts. Result for farmers: Indemnification does not cover any crop costs either. It also helps the application of Article 7 of the ELGA Regulation: 80% damage and 20% compensation. All farmers know that. According to a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, rather than the Communist Party of Greece, state services calculate the losses at EUR 100 million, but the additional burden on the state budget will be only 10 million, i.e. crumbs again to farmers. That is why the changes in the regulation you are extinguishing are being blamed. At the same time, however, the government plans for the "reform" and "reinforcement" of ELGA remain in force, with the aim of introducing private insurance companies, strengthening the private financial criteria for its operation, bringing new, increased contributions and smaller compensation to farmers. In November of this year the Communist Party of Greece, in order for farmers to take a breath, tabled a motion for a resolution on the return of the excise duty on agricultural oil, the subsidisation and the abolition of the adjustment clause in agricultural current and zero VAT on agricultural equipment and machinery. That would objectively give farmers a breath. What have you guys done? Nothing at all. If the Government accepted these amendments, this would result in a reduction in production costs, a guarantee of the rich liquidity which farmers and farmers do not see either bluntly, a reduction in irrigation costs, a guarantee of liquidity to all those who find it difficult to survive because of accuracy, of the disasters in agricultural and livestock production due to weather phenomena. But the government - and the present and the previous one - has made its own choices. It says that it is unable to meet these needs, because the state budget is being charged. We're making a suggestion for you to lighten him up a bit. Remove the corresponding tax reliefs applicable to other ‘professionals’. Are the "scientific" shipowners taking or not taking duty-free oil? Hundreds of ships are now building them in the Far East. Did the airlines take or did they not take their "gifts" due to coronary? Hundreds of millions. But they don't get any crumbs for these people, who both in Epirus and Laconia today, their oranges - even though you're Artinos, you know it - 18 minutes sell them. With what tariffs? With what current? Minus 7 degrees Celsius had the temperature the other day. How are they gonna breathe? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The Vice President of ELGA this morning on the channels presented all roses. Who are you going to make fun of? The farmers, however, will certainly not make fun of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr Papastasis. Good evening, good week from me. Mr. Style, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me start with the ELGA and then answer the rest. First, I want you to know: for last week's glacier, for the minus 7 degrees of Celsius that have been hit in this area, Arta, I make sure that I am kept informed on a daily basis and communicate with farmers throughout the plain of Arta and in the semi-terrestrial area, so also for citrus fruits and olives. It is in a process of proclamation of damage and disasters, so that the entire ELGA process can run. So the announcement is made in the town halls, the geopolitics go to make the assessments, the personal assessment and then, where there is damage, the compensation in question. He doesn't compensate the ELGA for 20%. You must have caught 20% from there and it starts to compensate you, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 80%, 100%. ELGA's money is managed by the organization - it does not manage the Ministry - with great respect, because it is the farmers' money itself, it is a reinsurer. But here, for the first time, the intervention of our government, Mr Mitsotakis, comes. For the first time 132m euros were granted - the Deputy Minister of Finance is here too - in accordance with Article 7 of Law 3877/2010 to support the administrative work and functions of ELGA. This is provided by the law that money should be given by the state and by the state. Our government gave it to the administrative burden, to the administrative costs, not to compensation for damages. In this we must obtain approval from the European Union, for reasons of free trade and competition. So for the first time they were given by this government. Each year around 30m euros are given. So much has been foreseen in this year's budget and we are in progress. I would therefore like to inform the farmers that we have an agency that respects their insurance contributions, which the government comes and supports and supports him in order to do. Now, in relation to costs, there are measures which are occasionally, directly, and there are measures that are more permanent. Immediately - thus reflexing to a crisis that is not ours, is not intrinsic, it comes from elsewhere, you referred to the energy crisis and to the increase - it decided to apply the refund of excise duty on oil, for 2022, to the members of the producer groups, to those who are in contract farming, to cooperative schemes, to cooperatives, namely, to producer groups and young farmers. Over two hundred thousand producers will benefit from this arrangement for the first time after 2016, when the previous government abolished agricultural oil. So this government came and says 'I apply agricultural oil for these specific categories of producers'. In addition, for energy, for electricity, an additional subsidy is provided for all agricultural tariffs for months from August to December, it is covered by 80% of the adjustment clause, both from January and 50% thereafter. The total extra subsidy for farmers will amount to over EUR 50 million for the current. I'm talking about the agricultural current. So also agricultural oil and agricultural current. Greece is the first European country to set up a special support fund for the energy transition. The aim is to reduce increases in electricity. They know, therefore, that they have a government that sees, understands, the immediate circumstance that needs to be taken and intervenes. However, we shall also go to a number of other measures which are of a lasting nature. Exemption from excise duty on electricity intended for agricultural use. A new tax scale for natural persons and professional farmers, with rates starting from 9% to 22%. Reducing the tax on agricultural enterprises - for those who keep books, that is, the majority of farmers - from 28% to 22%. Reduction of tax advances to 80% for legal persons and 55% for natural persons engaged in agriculture. The previous government had gone to 100% of the deposit. I continue: Suspension of payment of the solidarity levy. Reduction by three percentage points of insurance contributions for workers in rural enterprises. I would remind you that the farmers' insurance contributions had tripled with the previous government. Reduction of taxation to 10% of the profits of collective agricultural schemes, with the exception of the obligation to pay a trade fee for farmers of normal status, with the last regulation on VAT on agricultural supplies, with the reduction from 13% to 6%. These are measures which will not come, they are already in place. I have mentioned what is happening today, which the farmers know and see every day. In any case, because we are living in a state of economics where we are constantly changing and changing, and our Ministry and the government as a whole are here to record, see and take measures either directly or permanently, which, of course, are for the benefit of farmers and producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u255	We now move to the seventh under number 322/17-1-2022 on a topical question from the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'By responsibility of the Government, thousands of farmers - producers from the recurring problems in the payment of subsidies'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the government's calls for the welfare of the agricultural sector, farmers are well aware that the year 2021 - in the second half - and the year 2022, which we have already entered, is characterised by two negative effects. The first is to increase the cost of production, which is, of course, due to both energy and transport, but also to increases in all the factors that determine the costs. The second feature is the ruthless administration of subsidies and aid. This government started a lot of owardalistics and gave subsidies to people who often hadn't even pressed the field in our country, who don't know what agricultural production means. And it came to the point of making horizontal cuts - at least 2.5% this year - and cutting, with retrospective barriers, the aid from real producers. In particular, 10% of producers did not receive any subsidy. The remaining 15% got reduced subsidies from 15% to 90%. The reason is that the government retrospectively wanted to rationalise a system that it itself created as a vicious thing. So he put a wrong software to control the ATAK, put obstacles to the forest character, in relation to the rentals. The result is today, which has been delayed in opening the administrative procedure, given that the OPECE Convention had expired with the technical consultant operating the IACC, to be extended. The question is this: will you rectify your own mistakes first of all, so that the farmers can accept their objections? To what extent do OPEKEPE and the Ministry estimate these corrections? For ATAK, which is a correction made by producers at their request, but is the responsibility of the Ministry that created the problem, will all the issues be resolved? Will the objections be accepted? We therefore want a clear timetable. We want to see if what is said, for 10% horizontal reduction in the new year, is based. Minister, we need clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. And in this timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. George Stylos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Please don't go to seven. Share the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u258	It was a big deal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u259	I deliberately left it because it was proposals, it was interesting, it was for farmers. I didn't talk there. Here, then, you have the floor. You'll have a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, in relation to OPECIP, aid, single aid, the associated aid and a number of other aids, it is a process which we all know about. This agency, a certified European agency, an agency controlled by the European Union that has been operating for over twenty years - inconsistently, shares around EUR 2 billion every year in grants and subsidies for farmers and producers from all programmes. So he has a contract with a technical consultant. The contract also engenders specific obligations for the technical consultant, but the Agency also follows this contract, so that it can implement its planning. This programming relates to the period when the declarations are submitted, the spring of each year, and the time when the money is given to farmers, to producers. So that's what happened in the year that we spent. In other words, it normally ran in 2021 for payments. Within this process of payments, which farmers know when they are and are doing their own professional and economic planning, the administrative cross-checking process is also foreseen at different levels throughout the country. So that's what happened. The checks are the ones that are carried out and are in progress. That is the rate at which, if I understand it correctly, you are referring, and, when the checks are completed, those who really deserve and are in agreement with the regulation, the agency will pay them and give them the money. In relation to the convention, in order to avoid misunderstandings, there has been a pause for very few days. It's not four working hours, it's three or four. It provides for the contract with the technical consultant that an extension may be granted for these days to resubmit anyone who objects to their declarations or cross-checks. That's what happened. This extension was granted. He's the technical counselor next to the OPECE next to the organization. So we are in a normal institutional function. What does that mean? It means that, as our producers and our farmers know, what has been going on and happened over the past few years, the same will apply for this year, for the payment of subsidies and subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the payment of subsidies and aid to farmers is provided for in European regulations. Indeed, OPEKEPE could not be affected by the political decisions and interventions of the Ministry or other ministries and could be allowed to function in an uninterrupted manner in order to pay the subsidies fairly, in accordance with the regulations. Unfortunately, there are interventions. Unfortunately, the Ministry with its decisions retrospectively raised issues that overturned its smooth operation this year. In addition, it is not innocent to change three administrations, three Presidents, in last year's administrations which had to operate in accordance with the regulation and the ones provided for by the European Union. Prosecutor came in, complaints were made. There are issues that need to be resolved in a transparent manner. A rescue may have been made by OPECE, so that it does not really fall into disrepute and problems in relation to the European Union. All the issues in the 'grey zone' must be resolved in full transparency, the complaints that exist and everything that the prosecutor is investigating. However, in our view, it is precisely the question of a fair yield of subsidies. I say that the wrong software on the basis of which it went to check each producer's statement on parcels in relation to ATAK brought a huge gap and many thousands of people who were not paid. With this wrong software, a unified parcel - I tell you one example only - that comes from a transfer, from a market of three neighbouring parcels, it rejected the system. It did not have this prediction that three neighbouring parcels could be bought or transferred somehow by the farmer. However, these are system errors rather than producer errors. That is why we are calling for you to look carefully, transparently and in a way that we will not transfer to the producers any mistakes of the Ministry or the decisions themselves in order for people to obtain the subsidies they are entitled to. And I'm telling you that with specific figures, which the services do not deny. 25%, which either isn't paid at all or has problems, is a real number. So look at it through the process now being done, to see how it can proceed. Also solve the issue of electronic rentals you ask for afterward, because by requesting electronic rental afterward, you can imagine what will happen with 2022. We will have a great loss of rights for something you ask for in retrospect. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u264	He raised a number of issues. I will say this: what does the European regulation provide for in relation to OPEKEPE and the Union law that it applies? Firstly, every year a 2.9% rate of basic aid will be reduced by all producers. There is also another figure which will be in order to meet the needs of supplementing the national reserve. In simple terms, for new entrants in the system, we will provide for all those who take rights to contribute to supporting young farmers who enter the system. This percentage is changed because it is calculated by algorithm and from year to year. So we have 2.09% that is stable plus another percentage that has to do with applications. Every year we do not have the same number of young farmers to enter the system. For 2020 and 2021 this was 2.5%. So 2.09% and 2.5% make us about 4.5% the change that is taking place, not because the government wants it, but because that is the European regulation, in order to raise the rights, in order to normalize and give those who are newly entrants. So we're talking about 4.5% and under no circumstances about 20% or 25%. I have specific numbers. For the basic aid, for example, in 2021 this year, some 67 million, in 2020 73 million, was allocated for green aid of 32 million in 2021, in 2020 35 million. In both cases we had a difference in order of about 8% from year to year because these percentages change. Let's go with these rules. OPEKEPE is obliged, and our country as a whole, to have management plans for grazing. So the European regulation has come to check all these management plans, because we want to give money to those who are real producers - as you have said - to those who have the land. In no case do we want and we will not, of course, work in this direction - but to the contrary - to lose money and aid from our producers and that will not happen. Because, as I said in the previous question - you have heard it - we have ensured for the next programming period that we keep the same budget for our country, EUR 19.3 billion. There, of course, changes can take place in there. What changes are made? Organic farming will be strengthened. This is the direction of meeting the Green Agreement. 25% of the single is going that way. We have built the ecological patterns so that a large proportion of farmers and farmers can join the ecological patterns in order to make up for what is likely to happen from the single payment. It is a complex issue and a complex issue. Similar are the rates for Heraklion and Crete. I can give you the percentages, you can ask for them with a question from parliamentary control and they will be given to you. We will all see that the percentages you mentioned before are not valid. Payments are scheduled to run properly - I said - and next year. Where there are disagreements and differences each contractor, every technical consultant coming out of the market - you know it and you - is trying to ensure and ensure more with less work. For our part, on the basis of the law and the invitations and notices, the contract will take place and the technical consultant will have to comply with his contractual obligations. This has also been the case - I am talking about the end of December 2021 and now January - and that will, of course, happen from now on. Payments will therefore be made for the year 2021 until June 2022. That's the process. They have already been paid as a percentage of payment entitlements for basic payment at 100%, for green payment at 97% and for young farmers at 55%. The rest of the payments will run properly. I want to make a clarification. Crete, like all of Greece, has received special aid because of the pandemic and the exceptional support measures known as COVID. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, too. Have a good time, Minister. We continue with the third with the number 320/17-1-2022 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "In the air the kazanaris and thousands of vineyard growers and agricultural households, who seek to preserve the name of traditional tsikoudia Crete". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Let us look at this issue very seriously for wine growers and traditional distillers, since in order of intervention both by the previous government and today, they are marginalizing traditional distillers for the benefit of the systemic - the industrialists. Of course, we have an old complaint in the European Union, which was launched by people who thought they would make decisions to the detriment of traditional distillers - you know what happened - but who also returned to the detriment of them. There is a convicted decision for Greece, which relates to the level of taxation alone. In various ways, it is interpreted either way or in the case of the higher taxation the systemic ones will have, from the one they themselves had before resorting to the European Union, taken steps leading to the completion and destruction of traditional distilleries. Because there is no decision by the European Union, no decision by the European Court or by any other, except any ministerial decision that is in the air, either from Mrs Papanatsiou's time or - I don't know - by another Ministry, which is mentioned in the name and because the European Union does not negotiate it, as it is called, the usual name for a product does not change whether or not some have as PDO or as PGI another name. Olive oil, in other words, is not going to be abolished, called the grape juice of the juice - and it is actually done, as a PDO of Messinia, Laconia or as a protected geographical indication of Crete - continues to be called by its name as it is. We do not change his name and even make it 'no name'. So, Minister, I would like you to see how there will be a fair solution. Of course, what concerns taxation should be done, but in relation to the name the usual name cannot be removed and we can no longer say 'no name' a product from where it has its name, i.e. unload it. For the tick and the tick, it's the reason. What we are asking for is for you to see the proposals of the small distillers with the care and interest that you see when you see a subject - and I have many examples - so that we do not marginalise them. Clearly, too much has been done to control the market, and that is something we all agree on, and we have agreed, but that is other than getting rid of a traditional product that we know for centuries what it is called. And the Turks took the traditional name of the raki, which is Greek. Let the Greek Government not now remove the name "cikula" by which for years, tens of years, centuries, it is called the same product, the tsipouro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Good evening, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, you have the floor for three minutes to keep the gum!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, our Government has practically supported the small producers and distillers. I note that we have managed to guarantee institutionally at European level our country's ability to apply the reduced rate of excise duty by 50%, namely EUR 12.25, to tsipuro and tsikoudia, produced by the systematic producers and constitute a standard product, with a protected geographical indication from our country as a name. The biggest success, however, was that, at the same time, in the same European directive, on 1151/2020, we were able to introduce a reduced rate of excise duty of 85% for the two-day distillation product, which is traditionally produced by non-professional distillers, mainly for self-consumption. The size of success is more noticeable if we consider that Greece is the only country of the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union in favour of which a reduced rate of excise duty of less than 50% has been guaranteed for alcoholic drinks. This whole effort - and above all the result - was a product of continuous and structured negotiation of our Government at European level. And I would remind you that this negotiation was not easy at all since, on 11 July 2019, four days after we took office, there was a condemnation of the European Court of Justice for violating Directive 83/1992 by Greece on taxation: first, the tick of the systematic distillers and second, the two-day distillation product. I would also remind you that our country, by July 2020, had established a rate of excise duty at 50% of the standard, only for ouzo. It did, however, apply a reduced rate of 50% and to tsapuro produced by systematic producers, the professional distillers, contributing 24% to the VAT office and the other charges envisaged. At the same time, it also imposed a excise duty of EUR 0,59 per kilogram on the distillation product produced by small distillers, the so-called two-days, without being collected at the VAT office or other charges. The reduced rate of excise duty imposed by the country on the distillation product of small distillers was therefore applied by way of derogation from the European Directive. The same was true of the reduced rate in the tick of systematic producers. That is why the conviction has been made. That is why we have made every effort to guarantee the reduced excise duty on these traditional products. In my dentistry I shall also address additional issues to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have given the consultation a bill which will obviously be introduced into the House after the completion of the proceedings. This has also been discussed in your ministry at a meeting you have held. It has also been discussed in public consultations with the producers themselves. I've spoken to experts, not only lawyers, but also tax officers, but also officials of the Ministry who actually have a picture of me. I am convinced that the decision of the European Court of Justice, the final decision, as you have rightly said, only concerns taxation. There is no imposition by the European Union on removal of the usual name. What does that mean? In the relevant article you had in the bill, a distillation product is mentioned. What distillation? What have we distilled and got this product? Plastic distillation, you know, becomes also in crude oil and we take the various products. Distillation occurs in things. What have we distilled? We've distilled the raisins of the grape, the crowns. So when we discuss the rabies of the grapes by their name, it must be called racke. When we call them raisins, it must be called a distilling product of raisins or other products, whatever that is. So what we are asking now is the following. I think that this will also be a golden cut, so that there can be a full deal and with market control that we do not have problems handling the product, tax evasions and others. It is in the reference to the relevant article for the distillation of two-day grapes. Two days is a method, it is not the name of the product. I mean, don't cut out the name of the tick and the tick. If you accept this, if this after consultation with the producers, you see it with a different eye and put it into the bill, I think we will have positive effects instead of negative effects. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here you go, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u272	Mr Colleagues, what we have also achieved, until the directive on excise duties has been revised, is the fact that our country will not have any consequences for its non-compliance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the medium term from conviction to the completion of the revision of the directive. We have effectively avoided for more than two years the imposition of a standard rate of excise duty on two-day products. Note that the standard rate of excise duty on alcoholic beverages is EUR 24.50 per litre of anhydrous for both years, despite the conviction, the excess rate of EUR 0.59 has been maintained. As far as the subject of the name is concerned, it is clear. According to the distinction provided for by the Directive, for tsipuro and tsikoudia, i.e. the distillate of grapefruit produced in Greece, this rate is reduced by 50% in excise duty and this name may be used. Unlike the two-day product which, in fact, thanks to our efforts, is subject to a rate equal to 15% of the standard excise duty rate, this name cannot be used. The use of the name ‘tsipouro, tsikoudia’ means in addition to production and standardisation obligations on specific terms and the imposition of a coefficient of 50% on excise duty, i.e. EUR 12,25 per litre of anhydrous. At this point I would stress that the separation between the two-day distillation product and the distillate of grapes is not only made in the directive, but also exists in national legislation and even in Law 2969/2001, which was voted on in the PASOK government! From there, the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is near the two-day small distillers. This first is shown by the fact that the 15% rate is established for two-days, i.e. EUR 3,70 per litre of anhydrous. However, we have not only remained in favour of taxation, but we are listening very carefully to their problems and we are proposing solutions. In fact, a teleconferencing conference was held recently involving representatives of the Federation of Ambulous Greeks and eighteen local associations of two days where the government's major success was recognised to guarantee the reduced rate of excise duty at the traditional distillate of two days. I note that the teleconference was represented by all the geographical regions of the country, and indeed by your region from Chania, from Rethymnon, Lasithi, and the two-day requests for changes to the existing system of production and disposal of the product have been discussed. In the light of what has been discussed in this teleconferencing conference and, in particular, the consensus of the vast majority of the local two-day clubs, which I stress was expressly stated both on the issue of the name and on other necessary legislative interventions, we are moving together to the next step. This step is a reform of the two-day regime, according to their requests, with further arrangements which will shortly be put forward to vote with the corresponding amendment of Law 2969/2001 on ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 28-1-2022, for criminal law relating to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Konstantinos Achilles Karamanlis. We will now discuss the tenth question under number 323/17-1-2022 of the President of Heraklion's Change Movement, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Reinstate the hundreds of twenty-five instalments for all citizens and enable all citizens to join in regulating the seventy-two instalments and dues before 2020'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, on the previous point, you did not even allow traditional small producers to speak in consultation. The grown-ups spoke. The ones who've found them with the industrialists. I'll see you in the bill. Unfortunately, you are telling us that olive oil has to be called differently. So you're telling us that it's supposed to be called a little different. No name, though. Remove his name. You didn't tell us what this product would be like. Distillation is a method. Can you tell us the name? What is it? Is that whiskey?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u275	He says it in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u276	The 2021 law that you mentioned expressly states... So let go of the article. Don't modify it. Let go of the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u277	Shall we go to question 323?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u278	One minute, Mr President, why does it refer to the previous question? What the federation asked for...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u279	The president of the federation has found them with the industrialists. It doesn't express the small distillers. He's got it with the industrialists. Let's be clear. But because you referred to the law of 2001, leave the law as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u280	Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u281	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u282	Just as requested by the president and members of the federation and the presidents of the eighteen local associations of Heraklion, Rethymno, Chania and Lassithi...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u283	You didn't let them talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u284	And of the rest of the overwhelming majority, the fifteen of the eighteen - democracy we have, Mr Kegeroglu - asked, while it was another proposal from the Ministry and the service, for it to be called a 'traditional distillate of two days'. And that's what's gonna be called. ‘Traditional distillate of two days’.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u285	Let's go to the next question. I'll renew the time, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u286	You don't have to. I made a report. The fact that Mrs Papanatsiou opened the grave, and you put the tombstone on, you won't charge it to producers. The president of the federation has found them with the industrialists. It's over and out. On the issue of the hundred and twenty doses of the next question, we have the following contradiction. During the pandemic period, people who had expired the previous period had planned or had had to pay some obligations from the previous years. The state comes in and makes settlement of the debts within the pandemic but does not regulate the debts they would pay in the pandemic and had ended the previous period. What many people are now asking for is the enlarged one as it was in the period of the economic crisis. We have a similar case now. Or the one hundred twenty-dollar system to reinstate for debts of insurance funds to the public, etc. or the arrangement you have made of the seventeen two doses to enlarge to the beneficiaries and enter in and the amounts that had expired before the pandemic. He's going to collect the public. He won't lose. He's gonna collect. On the contrary, if there is no regulation of a hundred and twenty doses, or even seventy - two, many of the unreported will go to the definitively unresolved and be erased. Is that better? Open up the possibility of people paying. It's just.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Veyropoulos, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u288	Mr Colleagues, no one can blame this government for the fact that it does not understand the reality. We are constantly expressing the needs of society, we are aware of the problems and difficulties facing citizens. That is why our Government since the first days of its term of office has improved and extended the legislative framework for regulating debts to tax and insurance funds in a hundred and twenty instalments. This legislative initiative has given thousands of citizens the opportunity to be regulated. The pandemic has indeed created new data. And the government again gave practical samples of writing and proved to be fully aware of the reality, introducing substantial measures. Initially in the favourable arrangements established by Law 4738/2020 as amended and valid, the following shall be included: Firstly, support for the debtors who have been identified as affected by the pandemic and who have lost the settings of a hundred and a hundred twenty instalments during the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 July 2021. For all of these, the revival of the regulation of the hundred and twenty-dollars with the same terms and conditions as the original regulation was introduced and with the possibility of reviving this arrangement with all its benefits, such as the release of bank accounts. Furthermore, given that the government is fully aware of the financial implications of the pandemic and the weakness they have brought, it has also introduced an additional measure under Article 291 of Law No.4738/2020 according to which the final date of the arrangement is extended to the host of outstanding instalments on the day of revival. The revival was triggered by the payment of the August and September doses by the end of October together with the October dose. The same applies to the regulation of the extrajudicial compromise. Secondly, the provision of the possibility to regulate the debts of the pandemic period, i.e. for debts created from March 2020 to July 2021 in up to seventy-two instalments. If someone chooses the number of thirty-six instalments, the repayment of the debts is offloaded, while in the case of the seventy-two instalments there is a very low interest rate of 2.5%. In the arrangement, tax obligations, VAT, income tax, HICPs created from March 2020 to July 2021 and adjusted in thirty-six interest-free instalments or seventy-two instalments at an interest rate of 2.5% may be subject to the arrangement. And while the first instalment was initially fixed as the end date on 31 January 2022, the Government again overshadowed the difficulties, by its Act of Accession of 29 January 2022, extended the above deadline for payment up to and including 28 February 2022 and the minimum amount of the monthly instalment is set at EUR 30 for debts of up to EUR 1000 and EUR 50 if the amount of debt is higher. They may also be subject to the arrangement of debts or debt instalments established in the period from 1-3-2020 to 31-7-2021, which at the time of submission of the application are not under another arrangement, and debts established during the period from 1-3-2020 to 31-7-2021, which are due at the time of submission of the application, shall be suspended and not under another arrangement. Alongside the rules, the government has once again demonstrated its uninterrupted support for society and in particular for the vulnerable social group of pensioners, who are called upon to repay certain debts to the tax administration arising from a declaration of retroactive pensions for previous years. Since, therefore, the Government feels it is difficult to respond to the repayment of the abovementioned amounts by means of a legislative act of 29 January 2022 in order to make it possible to regulate them in up to forty-eight instalments instead of twenty-four instalments with the scheme in force so far. In addition, in order to allow pensioners sufficient time to incorporate their debts in the above-mentioned legislation, it was foreseen in the same legislative act that the payment of the tax from retroactive pension amounts is not due until 31 January 2022, but is extended until 15 February 2022. You should know we're evaluating all the data. But the existing framework, at a given point in time and under the circumstances, enables everyone to regulate their debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u290	Positive, half-and-measurable step. I will say this with an example in a very short time, we do not need to pelagic and unaccount for a specific problem: a taxpayer has not paid for two years, for example, in 2018 and 2019 income tax and HISPIA. It must pay a respectable sum and pay it well in 2020, but a year marked by the pandemic. You come and make the decision that it is regulated in seventy-two instalments, those which have made an end in the pandemic, and you should also consider the simple, what you would do well in the pandemic, in 2020. To enter at least one, two, three years before adjusting the seventeen two instalments. That's a specific request. For the forty-eight doses it was not clear. If you want to tell us whether the twenty-four to forty-eight instalments are for debts whenever they occur. Let's get this straight. It is a positive step. It's half for me, but that's something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u292	Mr Colleagues, the adjustment of the twenty-four and forty-eight instalments depending on the debts is the fixed arrangement. It may include under conditions all debts in previous years. In this particular example, however, you said the one who had income tax debts and HISPIA in the previous years, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 in September 2019 could be subject to the regulation of the hundreds of twenty instalments, which he did. In the space of the pandemic, however, the pandemic lost this arrangement for whatever reasons. We gave the right to resurrect this arrangement and to debts that were confirmed and regulated during the pandemic, and the arrangements in up to seventy-two instalments, thirty-six and seventy-two respectively. So there is one set of arrangements: the twenty-four and forty-eight instalments fixed, the pandemic's debts in thirty-six and seventy-two, depending on or at 2.5% interest rate, and the revival of the arrangement made twice must be stressed, with the latest in October 2021. I now come to the next question you have asked, Mr President. As I have said before, this arrangement covers a wide range of debtors who can be subject to it. Beneficiaries of this new favourable regulation are: first of all, natural and legal persons who have been affected by the pandemic; secondly, natural persons whose contract of employment has been suspended from 1-3-2020 to 31-7-2021; thirdly, those who received a special allowance; fourthly, those who received a reduced rent; fifthly, those who joined the "CON-WORK" programme and, sixthly, those who were registered in the OAED's unemployment registers at the same time. It is also foreseen that, as long as this is done, proof of tax information shall be provided for any legitimate use, and seizures and enforcement measures shall be suspended. All these can be included in the arrangement either in thirty-six interest-free instalments or in up to seventy-two instalments at an interest rate of 2.5%. Wanting to make it easier for the citizens, if you cannot submit an application electronically to the regulation, you can submit it either by self-personal or by e-mail to the tax administration. With Law 4850/2021 we have solved the inability to integrate the regulated debts of those affected by the pandemic into the regulation of Article 289 of Law 4738/2020. I am referring to the regulation of thirty-six and seventy-two-dose. What is the new element of this arrangement? The new element is that the scope of the debts that can be included in the regulation of the thirty-six and seventy-two instalments is widened and that those debts which have been subject to the permanent regulation of the twenty-four or forty-eight instalments are now available. A prerequisite is for the debts of natural persons, professionals or legal persons and legal entities affected by the measures to address the pandemic with Mr Activity Code included in the decisions of the Minister of Finance and temporarily closed on a public mandate any period from 27 October 2020 to 31 July 2021 and have been subject to the fixed arrangement after 27 October 2020. In order to fit into the regulation of thirty-six and seventy-seven-doses, the fixed arrangement should be in force and the October dose should have been paid by 15 November 2021. As I have said several times, we assess all the data every time. We believe that the existing framework for settlement of debt works and helps all those in need. And we're here to evaluate and intervene, though and whenever necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, too. We continue with the third with number 336/24-1-2021, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Delete the repayable advance from the earthquakes as made by the firemen and a programme for the replacement of lost income for professionals, businesses, workers and farmers". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 16-11-2021 and in the Official Journal number 5303, the decisions are to determine the refund amounts from the repayable advance as finally determined by the Government. There is, in this decision, provision for companies affected by the fires that exceptionally, for companies having their head office or branch in the municipalities of Evia, the Region of Central Greece affected by the fire, the amount returned is not refunded. So there is one provision for firefighting operations. What we are asking for this provision to apply to all earthquake-stricken businesses as well. There are businesses that have closed, never been opened before, the workers have been suspended three months and the suspension has not yet been paid - to keep it in mind - we have no income from these enterprises and we are asking them to return. The request is, therefore, to apply the same as that applied to firefighters and earthquakes. And secondly, to look at the replacement of the incomes of the firms affected and cannot stand on their feet, in some way of strengthening the special purpose. Let the government consider it. Mr Triantopoulos has said a number of things in his radio interviews, in that he is positive to it and that he is working on it, and I wanted to know if the Ministry of Finance consents to this approach and processing in order to support all these businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, you have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have answered several questions from the Government and the Ministry of Finance in the support of citizens in the shocked areas. A support that has taken place since the first hours of the earthquake, by adopting specific decisions and by energising specific policies. In view of the quickest and greatest possible relief of our fellow citizens who are tested, we act in time, we directly compensate and support the businesses and regions affected by the earthquake. Let me remind you of a series of measures that have been activated in order to directly support the affected, but also to restore the damage as quickly as possible so that the citizens and local communities affected return to normality. These include: firstly, firstly, the granting of first aid for housing to landlords affected by the earthquake, of EUR 14 000 or EUR 8 000 or EUR 3 000, depending on the size of the estimated losses. Beneficiaries shall be owners, natural or legal persons or legal entities in full or in full ownership of residential professional establishments damaged by the earthquake as resulting from the most recent E9. Secondly, the granting of first aid to the grant for damages to equipment and production facilities, of EUR 8 000 or EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000, depending on the size of the damage to the installations. The beneficiaries of the measure are undertakings regardless of their legal form, including agricultural holdings, as well as non-profit-making entities which have suffered material damage caused by the earthquake to assets such as equipment, raw materials, goods, means of production, stored products. In fact, the relevant online platform for the submission of applications opened directly on October 6, 2021, in order to submit applications from the regions of Minoa Pediadou and Arhannes - Asterousias of the Heraklion Regional Unit of the Region of Crete affected by the earthquake. At the same time, the second phase of the procedure also proceeded from 22 October 2021, extending both the perimeter of the beneficiaries affected by the earthquake of 27 September 2021 and the deadline for the submission of applications by 15 November 2021. Our recent decisions on those affected by the earthquake on 27 September provide, firstly, for the granting of first aid for housing assistance to the owners of buildings affected by the earthquake, the opening up of the platform between 31 January 2022 and 14 February 2022, for the submission of new applications, in which account can be taken of changes made to the E9 until 28 January 2022 and for changes to or withdrawal of applications already submitted. Secondly, in order to grant first aid to the grant for damages to equipment and production facilities, the platform is to be opened from 31 January 2022 to 14 February 2022 for the submission of new applications, as well as for the amendment or withdrawal of applications already submitted and the request to the region concerned until 28 February 2022, with regard to the time limit applicable before 31 January 2022. Third, for the purpose of granting first aid for construction compensation to natural persons, the platform is open from 31 January 2022 to 14 February 2022 for the submission of new applications and for the modification or withdrawal of applications already submitted. The Ministry of Finance has already provided, explicitly and unequivocally, by means of legislation, that the aid in question to citizens and businesses is duty-free, inconsistent and inexpensive in the hands of the public or third parties, is not subject to any reservation, fee or contribution, they are not bound and they are not offset by certain debts to the tax administration, public administration and banks. In my dentext I will reply to your question about the payment of the refundable amount of the aid received through the refundable advance scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u298	What the Minister told us is useful, but it's another question. I'm the one withholding. I'm sorry, that's another question he said, answers from another question. I asked something specific: will the returnee of the earthquakes be deleted in the same way as the Evia firemen, yes or no? And why the different approach? They were destroyed, and they were destroyed. It is a specific question, to tell us whether we are equal to the law, those who were destroyed by an earthquake or those who were destroyed by a fire. The rest is useful, but it's for another question. You could have analysed the budget for me as well. I thank you for the information, but here I have a specific question, which I have raised again, because you did not answer me last time. You say that "the government will not satisfy you, you guys", you have the courage to tell us, so that on Sunday we have a meeting with the Earthquake "The Hope" - we are invited by the club to tell them - we can know how to deal with them, as are the government's colleagues who will be there. They should know how to deal with you and know how to deal with them. We've told a particular topic if you're accepting it or not. Again we will be friends, but we will not be in agreement, we will disagree with your political choices. So I will not waste my time, just say that unfortunately there is no consistent answer in relation to the question. I wish you'd surprise us in dentistry and tell us that the government is studying it or has decided it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. After all, you're not enemies, you're opponents. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, my prototype was not an answer to another question, it was on this question, and I mentioned the support measures taken by the government in question for the earthquakes in this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u301	No, I'm asking about business.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u302	Before I refer to the issue of the repayable advance, I must inform both you and the House and those who are watching us that compensation and support for the earthquake-stricken areas in Crete have been made available to date EUR 40,981.118,31 to four thousand five hundred and twenty-four citizens. With the completion of the processing of applications and data submitted, new payments will be made in the following period. Now, as far as the repayment of the aid received through the advance repayment scheme is concerned, we have, as you know, proceeded with a reduction in the rate of reimbursement of all cycles of the permitted advance according to the fall in the gross revenue of each undertaking. Subject to compliance with the employee maintenance clause foreseen in each advance payment cycle, the possibility of reimbursement of the following percentages of aid is available: firstly, for undertakings that have started work before 1 January 2019, they have not opened a branch between 1 April 2019 and 31 December 2020 and have positive gross revenues in 2019, there will be a refund: 25% of the aid in so far as the reduction in the company’s gross income in 2020 exceeds 70 % in relation to 2019 and the company has losses before tax or 33,3% in so far as the reduction in the company’s gross income in 2020 is at least 30 % to 70 % in relation to 2019, and presents pre-tax losses or, lastly, 50% of the aid for other undertakings. Secondly, for new enterprises that have started operations after 1 January 2019, or for companies that opened a branch from 1 April 2019 to 31 December 2020 or have zero gross revenues of 2019, there will be a 25% refund of the aid, since the reduction of the company’s gross revenues exceeds 30% in relation to the revenues of 2019 and the company has losses before tax or 33,3 % of the aid for other undertakings. At the same time, the instalments for repayment of the repayment of the aid received in sixty equal monthly instalments, which are now interest-free, have been increased, and the option of a one-off payment of the repayable aid received before the end of the grace period is given with a 15% discount on the repayable amount. As we have already committed, the period of grace is to be extended with the first instalment to be paid on 30 June 2022, and the period during which a one-off payment of the aid paid may be made at the rate of 15%, up to 31 March 2022. There is, therefore, already a framework that facilitates businesses. In any case, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis shall assess any situation, study and examine all requests submitted and, if necessary, update this framework or take new support measures if there is any financial margin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will be adjourning the sitting and coming back to work at 6 p.m. on the agenda. Thank you all in and out of the Chamber. Good afternoon. Holy Mary with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Development Law - Greece Strong Development". With regard to the organisation of the debate, I would like to remind you that, following the speeches by the rapporteurs and the special speakers, a circle of priority will follow, which will include a speaker from each parliamentary group, followed by twelve-member circles of speakers. Members who wish to speak by teleconferencing, via the Webex platform, will be placed when the speakers are in a natural presence. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 27 January 2022 to discuss the draft law at three meetings, one on the principle of articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I would like to explain some of the legislative improvements that will be tabled later.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u306	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. In order to facilitate the debate, I will explain some changes that will come in the form of legislative improvements, so that both the speakers and the rapporteurs are aware of them. The first is that the cost, the percentage of construction costs for greenhouses rise from 40% to 60%. It is reasonable, because greenhouses are plants which have higher construction costs as a percentage with other electromechanical installations. Also, because of the high cost of leases and transfers in the mortgages, we are reducing the time of long-term liabilities from 15 years to 10 years in order to facilitate investors. Furthermore, in order to be able to facilitate micro-enterprises, we are reducing the threshold from EUR 150,000 to EUR 100,000. Next, in order to be able to facilitate the submission of requests within this time - because, as you know, we no longer give extensions - we are removing the submission of a viability and reasonable cost study from the banks and replacing it with a milder provision, which will nonetheless not restrict their submission and application. It should be submitted, but in second time. We add the incentive to tax exemption for the status of a fair development transition, to meet also the demands of operators for hotels. Included, as we have said, the three-star hotels in its modernisation, as well as the upgrade of one and two-star hotels again in three. We're talking about modernization. During the committee debate there was an issue about the integration of agri-food-related investments. We therefore include the Chamber of Agriculture during the control phase of the completion of an investment related to agri-foodstuffs. We also include, for our islands alone, projects related to investments in electric vehicle charging. At the same time, in order to be able to support border regions, mountain areas and islands under three thousand hundred inhabitants, we also include hospitality hostels, so that we can strengthen the country's traditional and cultural beauty, of course with five keys and a number of rooms. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u308	Is that true for all three stars?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u309	For the three stars you said about modernisation, it's true. But the upgrading of less than three stars also applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u310	I imagine they will be submitted, Minister, and the legislators will be in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u311	Yeah, a little later. I am sorry, Mr President, to add that we are talking about traditional settlements, as regards what I said about guest houses. It concerns traditional settlements, mountain, border and islands up to three thousand hundred inhabitants. We're opening a chapter that's been closed for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u312	Any other clarifications?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, may I ask a detailed question?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u314	Here you go, Mr. Mamulaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u315	The question of the investment limit for investment projects from 150,000 to 100,000 so that more businesses, small and very small, can be integrated, you do not mention it in legislators. Is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u316	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u317	So they're coming tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u318	Yeah, I told you he was coming. I just informed you to make it easier for you to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u319	The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u320	The Minister will be all the time here and when the legislative improvements are tabled you will have all the time, where you think, to ask for clarification. We'll be right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, I too would like to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u323	Minister, we see that you really have solved all the issues that have arisen. There is a request that has reached you, which is based on islands. Of course, three thousand per cent is a limit on the small islands, which, in case-law in general and in all the legislative efforts they have made, is the same limit, but there are complexes of islands that include traditional settlements that are four-five thousand inhabitants. They have the same problems, they have the same economic characteristics. Is the Ministry of Development totally perpendicular to increasing the population limit, so that they can be integrated, for hospitality guesthouses, under the conditions you said, and a little larger islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u324	We have included traditional hostels precisely with these features, because these are horizontal features that touch our country's territory. That is why we talked about mountain regions, we talked about border areas, which we have now extended from fifteen to thirty miles, and I must tell you that this now takes almost all Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and at the same time the small islands of three thousand inhabitants. We have not increased, because then we would also be leaving certain European Commission rules and norms.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u325	We are therefore entering the rapporteurs. Mr Maximos Sedetakis has the floor from New Democracy. It is, of course, a three-day debate, but we have too many speakers, about a hundred and twenty, and I would therefore ask that we stick to the time. Mr. Sedetakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the summer of 2019 Greek citizens instructed the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis to give new impetus to the extensive programme of change and reforms that began in the summer of 2012, but was abruptly interrupted with the known impacts in 2015. It was a landmark of national consciousness. The majority of citizens, ten years after the unfavourable situation in the country was revealed, now understood that populism seriously harms both the country and the countries themselves. He realized that the emotion that influenced their decisions and choices had to give way to common sense and realism. Common sense required a governance of the truth, planning, consistency, methodology, determination, moderateness, to build a new relationship of trust of a state-citizen on a first level and at a second level a new relationship of trust of the country with partners and traditional allies, a confidence that is essential in the implementation of this bold plan of change and reform. Kyriakos Mitsotakis trusted in what is most important, the country has the design for the new production model that we need to face up to modern challenges, so that we can quickly adapt to what is just as quickly changing around us. The plan is completed. It is reflected in three conclusive texts: The development plan for the Greek economy, the well-known Pissaridis report, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan "Greece 2.0", the strategy for the industry "Industry 4.0". I would like to say that these three texts are a social contract where we want to go, which Greece we are planning, for which Greece we want. Our direction is therefore known to the Greek people. The international community also knows it. There's no secret agenda. Is the road we have chosen to follow right? The answer is the confidence shown by European partners, international institutions, markets and large investors in our country. If we had planned the wrong direction, that trust wouldn't have existed. And it's the trust that's been lost in the past few years and put the country on the great adventure we've been through. So, what are we talking about today? It is exactly how we implement the plan in practice, how we do the project. The new development law, which will replace the current L.499/2016, is the new institutional instrument for the development of the Greek economy. It reflects the spirit of strategic development plans, meets the modern requirements of entrepreneurship and economic life in general, expresses the government's ideological stigma. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has chosen to create a new development law, instead of supplementing or modifying the existing law, because the current law does not meet the needs and requirements of the transformation of the Greek economy. It is a reproduction of its previous laws, allowing low-priced enterprises to play an extremely large role in the economy, focusing on economic activity in traditional sectors and sectors of low-innovation, resulting in a low productivity increase. When, for a number of years, you have tried the results of these policies, and what you have achieved is to keep the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, the lowest employment rate in the European Union, youth unemployment in 35%, the gender gap in 19%, the long-term unemployment rate at 70%, then the test is convinced that you need to try something different. Obviously, with the new development law, we will not try to undermine the need to maintain and strengthen traditional forms of business. But it is now clear that we must also support new, modern investment initiatives, increase the few investments in research and innovation to date and harmonise them with the high skills of our human resources in order to increase productivity and produce high-value products and services. It is therefore clear that the Greek performance in the digital economy and society index should be improved. We need to get rid of the And it must be the employment indicator for high-growth enterprises in innovative sectors - and it is for Greece at least 2.5% - that, if not above the European average, which is 5.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that there is an urgent need to run and prevent the technological development train. As an economy, we have no choice in any other direction, let alone that our economy is not labour-intensive and that we have a high-skilled human potential, which demands that we give him the chance to show them here in his home country. So the law had to change radically. A single framework had to be established which would cover the country's investment needs, not through fragmentary interventions. It's a law that will serve a new band of businessmen. When, in fact, direct grants for budget investment projects of EUR 100,000 reach 70% compared with 35% in this law and when the money for the new business is guaranteed as a separate scheme, then we understand that it is a law for many and small businesses. But we must not just look at it as a way of sharing money, and that is extremely important. It is a mechanism that will allow creative Greeks to produce wealth, not only because through the procedures of the law the possibility of leverage of funds is given, where for 1 euro public money private funds are mobilised 2 euros, but because through the new mechanism for evaluating, approving, controlling investment projects, the state is not simply called upon to provide money. It is called upon to give examinations of modernisation, transparency and credibility. Procedures play an important role, because they significantly affect the time spent on a job. And for the business world, as you know, time is money. Since it is a strategic government pillar to try to eliminate outdated bureaucratic procedures, the new law introduces major innovations throughout the entire process of submission, evaluation, control of investment plans and the adoption of relevant administrative acts, with explicit deadlines that reduce the time from the submission of the investment project to the approval and implementation. The purpose is to invest, not to keep a simple plan. Increase in investment is achieved by realisation of the investment. The measurement and effectiveness criterion is the number of implementations rather than subjugation, although - and, of course, procedures allow for implementation as much increases as subjections. In fact, as the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanases, has said, in the last two years, the speeding up of procedures has brought about a 780% increase in subsistence, 282% per year. Ladies and gentlemen, when the new law comes into force, with the innovations it brings, in other words with the new information system that will support it, with the private assessors who will run the evaluation procedures, using the possibilities offered by the exculpatory regulation, which will include aid beyond regional aid, and with the 13 separate thematic schemes that we create under this law, which are: firstly, digital and technological transformation of enterprises. Secondly, the green transition, the environmental upgrading of businesses. Third, new business. Fourthly, a fair development transition regime. Fifth, research and applied innovation. Sixth, agri-food, primary production and processing of agricultural products, fisheries. Seventh, processing - supply chain. Eighth, business extrovert. Ninth, support for tourist investment. Tenth, alternative forms of tourism. Eleventh, big investment. Twelfth, European chains of value. Thirteenth and last, entrepreneurship 360 degrees. It has been heard in the debate in the committees by the opposition parties that the separation of thirteen thematic schemes makes it difficult to finance and absorb funds. Well, the exact opposite is going to happen. It is precisely because, for each scheme separately, there is a specific amount of 150 million per system, not all the regimes will be placed in one bucket, so that one industry can absorb funds at the expense of another. We know what has happened in the past and what reasons. So for the first time funds that are to be directed towards the country's digital transformation will be directed to the country's digital transformation, will not be lost on the road and headed somewhere else. The same will be done for the green transition, for the new business and for all the schemes. This new enlargement to sectors of the economy with high productivity and added value will not only take place in the words, it will take place in practice, and that is what we want: actions and projects, as we also want decentralisation in practice. And since the law includes investment projects implemented in the region of 97%, it also applies to local communities, as we have said, decentralisation in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the development law had to be changed, not only to reflect the new orientation of the Greek economy and the change in the production model, but also because it had to be an attractive, in the sense of the incentives it would provide, financial instrument to boost private investment. The whole of Europe is looking for investment, it's not just us. Attracting investment is the dominant policy of the Member States of the European Union and in order to attract investment, you need to create a pro-investment environment that requires the elimination of bureaucracy, incentives and transparency. Today, therefore, the Greek state is called upon to show that it is able to shape the conditions and conditions of the creation of this pro-investment climate and to make it easier for the people of creation to show their skills, to implement their ideas, to make their dreams a reality. As soon as the state proves that it is no longer the monster that absorbs resources and unscrupulous labors, it will allow old and, above all, new entrepreneurs, who will first come into contact with it, to combine a new business culture that we need in the country as much as anything else today. This is the biggest bet we have to win through this development law, to show that the Greek state is able to play its strategic, control and supervisory role, as a partner and partner of every creative person who is struggling to improve its standard of living. Ladies and gentlemen, all this may seem to be visually or utopianly about the Greek reality that we used to live on, but it is enough, in practice, to achieve something that we today consider to be unnecessary. These small, practical, but so important changes we also see in this law. It's another piece in the puzzle of Greece that we want and we deserve. The New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not throw rock rabbits into Greek citizens, promised to speak the language of truth and do what they do all the advanced states that are prospering and prospering. He promised a new state-of-citizen confidence relationship and a new relationship of trust of the country with partners and traditional allies. He pledged to be the Prime Minister of all Greeks without divisions and divisions. These promises have been kept and kept in full. The commitment of all of us is to ensure a better outlook for the Greek economy, a better future for Greece. This law, beyond which disagreements were expressed on individual issues, many of which were resolved by the Minister's labelling, ensures better conditions for the country's development. Those who really want it and who mean it have nothing but to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u329	Yes, before I give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement wants the floor. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, I am sorry to speak like this among the rapporteurs. I will speak for a minute, because I want to make a statement to the Greek delegation. In an unprecedented demonstration of anti-institutionalism and party patriotism, the Prime Minister, yesterday, chose to apologise and announce "revolution" by addressing Mr. Tsipras for the ten total political persons targeted in the case of "NOVARTIS" and, in essence, were celebratingly acquitted by Greek justice and mentioned by name to the officials of the New Democracy. I oppose the political inappropriateness that indicates the party notion of the Prime Minister for the functioning of the institutions. We did not intend to follow up if today the Government spokesman did not, after the self-evident reaction of Evangelos Venizelos, make an incredible statement. He said in particular: "It is Mr Androulakis' job to support the KINAL executives." Really, Evangelos Venizelos, Vice-President of the Government of Samaras, Giannis Stournaras, the country's central banker, Andreas Loverdos, for many years, and George Koutromanis also, Minister, did not deserve the attention of the prime minister? The Government spokesman simply testified another sad reality, that the Prime Minister from the depth of the so-called modern and institutional Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is moving in the face of the difficulties of his government to cheap parties that are disrespecting the institutions and especially the institutions of justice. That's too bad! I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u331	Mr Scandalidis, I think the Prime Minister, more generally interpreting yesterday's climate, had no intention of diversifying himself from innocence and other involved in the great project, as proved in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u332	The government representative made the mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u333	But don't forget that he generally called it a service to everyone, and he didn't say it is a service to the specific political persons belonging to the New Democracy, but he caught all the parties involved. I don't think there was any intention of making a separation, but it was a general placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, we are now going to take the floor, too, sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u335	No, you have a parliamentary representative if he wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, you are now presided over.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u337	Please, everyone won't be talking here. I gave you as I understood it not as President-in-Office, but as a mere member of Parliament. In no case was that the Prime Minister's intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u338	Let me talk for a second. I would just stick to the issue of political inappropriateness, because it was politically inappropriate. He cannot speak of ten important persons, important persons and only mention as a party master of his own. That's not it. I spoke about the follow-up given today by the Government representative and the Prime Minister's understanding of the institutions. That's the big deal. Was the answer of the Government representative unacceptable from the beginning to the end, to say that Mr Androylakis should support his own members? I mean, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u339	I explained to you that he condemned the NOVARTIS case as a whole in respect of all parties involved and cleared it by calling it a construction. He did not say a good thing about the parties involved on the New Democracy side, but in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u341	Here, please. You now have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u342	First of all, Mr President, you cannot answer the parliamentary representative. You're presiding right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u343	Listen, Mr President, when a matter is off the agenda, the President-in-Office can speak. He is not allowed to speak - listen - of the substance of the case, because he must go down. However, when it is off the agenda it may deliver an opinion as President-in-Office. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u344	Then let's take the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u345	Please, Mr. Femmelle. Here you go, Mr. Saraciotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, there is a parliamentary representative and can be posted. From there on, it's unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u347	I apply the Rules of Procedure literally at any time, and if there is tolerance at one time, they are in favour of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u348	It is unprecedented to discuss a global scandal, 'NOVARTIS', and to say that in our country it is a serpent. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u349	We say what justice has decided. Irrespectively, he has now ruled. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, honestly, all this time the Prime Minister and all the government officials, much more than the KINAL, have been placed clean in Parliament and in the public speech about the existence of a building, which is seen in the archives of all cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u351	Everybody? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u352	All cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u353	Look out! You said everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u354	You saw, Mr. Scandalidis, why didn't the Prime Minister speak? In order not to give SYRIZA the opportunity to "carry" once again on yesterday's day. Consequently, when the case ended in the nineteenths, in order to satisfy his colleague, Mr SYRIZA, the Government was right to express its satisfaction at the archiving of the cases of officials from their own political area. At the same time, and KINAL should do the same. Does KINAL have to testify to us, even once, in the struggle that was given, the political struggle, when the government was constantly talking about all the ten people who were wrongly accused, that we took a step back or that we distinguished all those we thought were wronged? No, of course not. In any case, neither the Prime Minister nor the Government spokesman made the mistake of giving the Civic Opposition the opportunity to "hatch". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u355	Mr Mamulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u357	Excuse me, Mr. Mamulaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, the Prime Minister respects the institutions of the state. He referred to a construction, asked SYRIZA and his head, SYRIZA President, to apologize. This is a question, because I must tell you that it is not just, gentlemen of SYRIZA, these ten people, they are also their children, they are also their wives, who saw their people, their men, or the children who saw their parents, their fathers, they are intersected in the media and in the House. This, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you guys don't think about it? How would you feel if your kids saw you on TVs accusing you of getting money? How did you feel when you saw Mr. Pikrame crying? Do you not feel the need - I am referring to you - to apologise to the children at least of these people who were reading in the media, newspapers and televisions to break their parents apart?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u359	We continue with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Mamulakis. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of development laws is, in many cases, the very story of the development model, the model of our country, with its good and bad, with its positive and negative ones. Since the 1970s, the first development law until 2016, development laws have been identical, I would say, rational and political. They were divided into different areas, depending on the size of GDP, depending on their population, and gave different types of aid to all types of investment, other than, of course, deterred by the European dialects and European directives. This logic has had two historical results. On the one hand, it has achieved a reduction in our country's regional disparities, a lasting demand, especially after the relocation. Also, an example of this decline in inequalities were regions such as Crete, Cyclades or Thrace, which were significantly strengthened, drastically reducing the strip that separated them from industrially developed areas in the 1970s. On the other hand, it has given a horizontal contribution to all sectors, tending to bring the vast majority of resources to those sectors where there was a greater demand for investment. Instead of, for example, development laws to subsidise the private sector, where there was genuinely market failures, where there was a development perspective for the national economy, but limited availability of funds, instead of that, they were subsidising the sectors with the highest direct profitability margins, as they were in every period. So, then, this distortion has constantly been strengthened and strengthened. These development laws therefore end up acting as accelerators of the country's position in a lower position in the international division of labour, but also in the international division of development itself. Our integration into the community, because of the way in which it was done, with the responsibility of the governments at the time, has speeded up the deindustrialisation of the country, and at the same time the development laws have transferred resources towards the development of tourism, the construction industry and, of course, renewable energy sources, with guaranteed prices. The 2008 crisis and the country's bankruptcy led to a crisis in this development model, beyond any previous one. The political change of 2015, with the difficulties, the international commission and the hostile international framework within which it took place, brought with it the hope of a different development model. The 2016 Development Law included the spirit of this different model, introducing essentially four centralised innovations: Firstly, it adopted the logic of the different regimes, so that the state could turn its resources into those directions, according to what was, proved to be a real future and dynamic in the national economy. Secondly, it has chosen to transfer most of the aid to medium and large enterprises, but not to grans, but to tax exemptions, substantially strengthening honest entrepreneurship. I would remind you that the logic of the grans in very large companies, apart from being deeply undevelopmental, has also unfortunately had a dramatic financial impact on the Greek economy. And why am I saying that? Because the Samara - Venizelou government has given the SYRIZA Government EUR 5.4 billion in debts to the private sector, in debts to the private sector, in debts to the private sector, as it has in the midst of bankruptcy investments, promising the money that was not there. Third, the 2016 law, the SYRIZA law, first incorporated the development laws into a unified, holistic, universal, information system on State aid and abolished the logic of the files that were uprooted according to the government's friends. It thus contributed, for the first time, to the development of transparency conditions, to the functioning of the Private Investment Secretariat and at the same time significantly reduced the existing bureaucracy until then. And finally, it provided for special regimes which would benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, but also by promoting a productive pluralism involving potential beneficiaries, such as the JCC, such as cooperative ventures, start-up companies and others. Today's law maintains the first two innovations of SYRIZA's law, although it unfortunately integrates several unrelated branches, such as ironworkers, nursing houses, pharmacies, couriers, into the production model that it wants to strengthen. It is a step backwards, however, both in terms of transparency and in terms of the inclusion of very small, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, in view of the fact that it overturns the basic positive heritage of all development laws, that is, their contribution to the elimination of regional disparities. And I'm explaining. Firstly, opacity and bureaucracy. The main argument of the Minister in why the law combats bureaucracy is the introduction of the sworn auditors into the process of subjecting investment projects to development law. These sworn auditors, however, will be placed under the circumstances of the Minister himself in every ad hoc case, while in other examples, for example, in the building auditors, which Mr Papathanases has quoted as such, the taking up of a case is done in an absolutely inconsistent manner and by a single key - I am referring to the engineers present in the Chamber who are aware of the procedure of the engineers of the building auditors in question - for each private auditor. As far as miraculous assurances of this kind are concerned, of course, and we don't have one. We are a long way from the approach that we have taken. So, as the law stands, it will lead to a large number of cases of conflict of interest and - I fear very much - and to an orgy of political intervention. On this point let me also make a comment that has been so much discussed in the public sphere over the last 24 hours, which has to do with supervision, supervision and intervention, where necessary, of the state with regard to matters relating to the private sector and the management of public property, examples - and not just of the Attica road, the New Road and more general arteries. The same issue, precisely the same danger, is embroiled in this case. When you cannot, with institutional interventions, control the private initiative, then, unfortunately, the risk is that the private initiative will dominate the interests of the public. Let's go to the second category, second centre line that we think is in a completely wrong direction. Small and medium-sized ones. Under the law of SYRIZA, subjections were 48% - look, colleagues - for micro-enterprises, 28% for small businesses, 18% - grosso modo - for medium-sized enterprises and 10% for large enterprises. That is not what we are talking about, your explanatory statement itself says. In your law most of the regimes you have the very small company in the same arena to compete with the big one to get aid from the same scheme announced. You realise that this distortion creates two categories of companies and de facto all the resources and money that will be provided will go to the very large companies. Who, after all, will expect the little fish to win the big one? Let us be pragmatic. But beyond that, the law still introduces unjustified restrictions, such as Article 13, to which individual undertakings are universally excluded. Collaborations, energy communities and the Commonwealth of Independent States are missing out of sight. Also, at this point to say that there are many complaints from serious operators who have left an extremely important productive footprint in the country, such as transporters. Buses that now have the golden opportunity for their green transition and energy savings to be incorporated into development law, as well as tugboats in the maritime transport project, and even in the new business regime you only see guarantees. Above all, however, accession to the Mitsotakis Development Act presupposes an assessment of viability by a bank, by a financial institution with the logic of the criterion on-off. This way you actually fly out the vast majority of small and medium-sized ones that are excluded from banking lending. At this point I have listened carefully and silently to the Minister's comment on the forthcoming legislative improvement that will come to see at second stage how small and medium-sized enterprises can be introduced. That's what we keep and we're tracking his course. Tomorrow, I imagine, we will have it in this House to discuss it and analyse it further. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, as decisive as the two other examples I have set out. Geographical inequalities. Today I see colleagues from all over the House, I would say, the spectre of Greek territory. It is therefore important for Members to know that this law actually triggers geographical inequalities and I will prove the truth. Most of your law regimes do not incorporate different percentages by regional unit or there are regional plaques, for example the NRP has been successfully following for a long time. The main innovations in the law are, according to Mr Papathanassis, the introduction with Article 7 of aided expenditure outside regional aid. So what's going on here? An action may be incorporated. It represents a serious risk of embolism to deposit large investment projects and in fact to take most of the resources that each regime has set from the outset. Thus, without differentiation by region and without a wall, the law has proved to be greatly intensified by the quality and nature of the investments it will attract. Finally, I should like to conclude by mentioning a little bit - it is worth it - once again the issue of the environment. Today we are talking about the biggest conflict, the biggest debate in the European public sphere is the matter of taxonomy, that is, the question of the system of classification of future investments on the basis of the potential consequences of the objectives of the UN's sustainable development. Already all financial institutions, all European financial institutions, EIB, IFC, EBRD and many others are always forming their borrowing rates according to the eligibility criteria of investments always at the basis, as I said, of the sustainable development goals, the well-known SDGs. At this point, of course, you are always incorporating into every legislative improvement or bill that you are tabling a bill which as a copy-paste is transferred from bill to bill. And if you notice carefully, many times we've seen the phenomenon of previous bills coming as a copy-paste, as I said, and in the next one. In other words, it is only a platitude that is not within your own mentality. The green transition, ladies and gentlemen, is by means of projects, by means of acts and laws in this direction. And why am I saying that? Because this flagship development law, which should aheadly be the issue of the green transition through the SDGs, is missing out of sight. Even in the midst of this world, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who in a few weeks' time will also bring climate law from what I hear, we will also see it on the way, bringing us the law - take care of state aid without any care of SDGs, but also of green funding through green initiatives. So, how is it possible - here is the reasonable question - to talk about green governance, velvety green transitions, even about the issue of liberation, when in practice, when the legislations to which we should discuss are really going to be converging, this logic is absent from your own legislature? That's a decisive thing. We are observing development laws, we have studied development laws that have been tabled over the last two years in all the Member States of the European Union, and this always negates the whole core of the bills of the rest of the states except us. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the environment is not another economic sector. The environment is and should be the most important horizon for our thinking about the future of our country's economy. Mr. Mitsotakis may not see it that way and believe, following Meryl Strip at the "Don't look up", that he can escape to another galaxy. But we and our children are, unfortunately, forced to legislate on the future of this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u361	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Apostle Panas, special speaker of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, finally the day has come when the bill of the Ministry of Development and Investment 'Development Law - Greece Strong Development' enters in plenary. And it comes at the right time to prove once again that this government brings bills of heavy titles that have nothing to do with the Greek reality: "Great Greece" and no reflex of the Government for the snowfall that he knew he was coming for days ago. After five days of warnings and supposed preparation of the state mechanism, snowfall has been closed even in the capital since the first days. Who is to blame, then, for a foretold bad weather where the country's most important road was to close? Who is to blame that citizens of that country who bring bills with celebrity titles, have stayed enclaved hours on the streets and travellers and airport workers? So will you transfer responsibility to extreme times, to climate change, or will you be referring to individual responsibility and irresponsibility, as you used to do, as the government renounced responsibility by sending a SMS to the citizens' mobile? 'Janus', 'Medea', 'Balos' and now 'Hellenic'. It is enough to call what is happening unprecedented. So what we have watched in the past few days are images of a third world. Unfortunately, the final state has not succeeded and we are now trying to overcome these issues with benefits and the enclavement allowance has been discovered. But, ladies and gentlemen, if confidence is lost, it is not replaced by allowances. Going now to the bill we are in, perhaps today we should hope that you will listen more carefully to what we have said from the Step of the House on all the committees. In previous statements, therefore, I pointed out the reasons why we are talking about a problematic law. Perhaps our ideologies, as I have often mentioned from this Step, are the real cause, Minister, that we cannot deal with this development law in the same way. So you strongly claim that this law strengthens the large and medium-sized and small enterprises, while in practice you are on a regular basis with the permanent strengthening of large investment. What else can be the non-subsidisation, but only tax exemption, for medium-sized enterprises? Is this a tactic that will strengthen the liquidity of enterprises, which are currently indisputably looking for or are medium-sized enterprises being strengthened? Along with this question, tell us why individual businesses, six hundred and fifty thousand, are out of law and, in particular, those working in the field of agri-foodstuffs. The total exclusion of individual businesses, but also of special forms of small capital from development law, actually excludes the vast majority of the country's business world. I am also referring to small and medium-sized enterprises. The risk of breaking the chain, both for the safety of work and production, is evident. You really want a strong national economy. If so, please explain to us how it will be done, as we see that you are driving small and medium-sized enterprises, which are currently suffering from the wave of precision, in even more difficult days. How are we going to lead to a strong national economy when there is no strategic driver of the new production model and which the country has to follow so that, on the one hand, it can run on its feet through all these multi-level consequences of the pandemic and, on the other, compete with the modern requirements of the time? The inefficiency of this law as a financial instrument, I fear, will be demonstrated in the near future for sure. This is not a verbal exaggeration, as you do not emphasise specific areas that will create a specific orientation of the Greek economy. Where is the accompanying study on the economic infrastructure of the country's productive model? Where are the reports relating to periodic economic cycles and illustrating all those data on the remaining or precedents economic sectors, for the competitive disadvantage of production, for the corresponding development of the region of the country and for the rate of development of specific sectors of entrepreneurship in the last five to seven years? We therefore have a development law that runs out of standard conditions rather than the quality of the candidates. This development law, therefore, does not respond to any features that a development law must bear - and this in itself is problematic - as money is given to investments that have no national target. This view is even reinforced as it falls short of this draft draft law, which is measurable, which could show us what the firms which have been subsidised by the latter two developmentists are. Thus, we have a fast track law for large and small businesses - and this with question marks - where even the conditions of choice are lacking, priority lists, again proving the absence of national planning and in practice bringing fewer beneficiaries for more aid. With regard to the legal improvement for businesses of 100,000 and the issue of banks, we are waiting in the course of the debate to see in particular what you mean. We see it on a positive basis. With regard to the issue of tourism, where well from the first Committee on Production and Trade you have made your initial decision on hotels, including three-ways in development law following the disruption caused by the operators of the tourism sector, we believe that your current decision on the hotels of one and two stars can be on a positive basis, but we insist on the inclusion of the non-mainstream hotel accommodation. Apart from that, however, development aid to the tourism sector is not just accommodation. So, do I ask you? How can this development law contribute to the qualitative upgrading of our tourism product? We are in 2022 and in the capital of Athens there is no conference center that responds to modern needs. Where are the special infrastructures to strengthen the country in addition, providing an additional option for conference tourism? If I am not mistaken, shortly after the 2019 election process and specifically in July and following the relevant visit of the Prime Minister to the Ministry of Tourism, the Prime Minister himself pledged to the Greek people that within six months the country will have a 10-year plan for tourism for the future, which will emphasise competitiveness, innovation and sustainability. This plan was finally drawn up? Because we didn't see anything. And we do not want to hear any excuses where this responsibility will ultimately be burdened with the coming of the pandemic in the country, which has come to the end of February. Finally, someone must assume their responsibilities. As someone has to take responsibility for the reform of their responsibilities, with the aim of strengthening the self-government that we have been calling since 2019 and before we have been constantly listening. Is paragraph 2 of Amendment No 202 and a special 117 tabled on 20 January 2022 by the Government and which removes the competence from local government, in particular from the regions, by awarding them to the Ministry? I should also like to say that the justification for the transfer of these powers is that it is not a local matter, but a state mission. In other words, the final and other regions. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not want to be far away, as the Group of the European People's Party - PASOK - has worked on this bill, taking into account the need to reach consensus on the new development plan, I will continue with our proposals on the new development law without further insisting on black points in this draft law, such as the regulation that defines the eligibility of investment projects and also of the bodies assigned to Joint Ministerial Decisions, while they should already have been incorporated into the body of the law. In particular, we therefore call for the incentive to be provided for the grant to medium-sized enterprises that are not provided for in the new development law and for individual enterprises to be integrated, provided that they are transformed into companies, to provide incentives for networking, vertically and horizontally, to be included in beneficiaries, as individual enterprises for certain schemes, such as agri-foodstuffs for farmers and farmers, are now not included, to add a specific provision to increase aid rates on the basis of the new regional aid map for the purpose of subsistence of investment projects in areas affected by serious natural disasters, fires or floods, to apply increased aid rates to the new regional aid map for the Greek islands that are gateways to the European Union. In addition, we call for the enrichment of the special cases referred to in Article 12 of L.4399/2006 by adding cases in relation to the unemployment rates and per capita income of each region, in order to encourage companies to create new jobs and to boost the local economy and the development of the region, to include all tourist accommodation without stars, as well as non-main tourist accommodation in the new development law, to increase the rate of advance payments of new investment projects by presenting corresponding paid supports, to update the standard cost table taking into account the high appreciations of raw materials and to set strict timetables for all stages of the implementation of investment projects. Minister, these proposals have been formulated in the light of the universal strengthening and modernisation of all sectors and businesses in the country for a strong national society where all businesses, independent of size, will contribute in this direction, for a modern Greece with effective innovative business ideas. Emphasizing research and extrovertism, the Greek business can be worthy of the demands of modern times. The Change-PASOK Movement is here to support even through dialogue, every effort that will lead the country one step ahead. We are therefore waiting to see if you are going to make progress in the necessary changes that this development law needs on the basis of our proposals and we are asking you, because yesterday the Prime Minister of the country said that we have no proposals, take and table the ten proposals that we have tabled for development law as Minister. Or we'll have to go to Maximus and leave them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before I give the floor to the Special Rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, to Mrs Diamandoo Manolakos, I would like to inform you that today's debate - at the very time I cannot say it exactly - will go to the third cycle by number 24, which is Mr Panagiotis Skouriakos and the first speaker tomorrow will be Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u364	I shall also take the dentistry, Mr President. In the debate three days in the House on the occasion of snow, the major shortages in civil protection infrastructure of human life and people's property have emerged and were confirmed once again by thousands of helpless people locked up for many hours on large roads and dangers and their lives, thousands of homes without power, problems in hospitals and so on. Is the new development law that we are discussing a tool that will give a solution and satisfy such needs? No, of course, because the finality, that is, the urban state, and its development laws, channels large state-owned money, people's money through subsidies, tax exemptions, paid-in free work and more for big capital. After all, it's a common question. This is reflected in the speeches made by the previous speakers and by the representative of SYRIZA and KINAL. They don't care about people's needs. This is the mirror of your development. This is why the title of the bill should be: "Obstruction from the people's money to strengthen business profits". Of course, every government has a record of each development law, it adapts it to the needs of capital for more and quick profits. That's how it works today. The aim is not different from the previous SYRIZA development project, and it does not seem to us that the Deputy Minister's assessment of the previous government's development law has been multiplier, since key elements have been maintained and are always promoted in favour of business groups. Civil power has been constantly expressed by different parties, social democratic or neoliberal. And it may be that today's government's development law does not vote for him by Civic Opposition, but agrees with most of the articles because they are hers too. Moreover, there is always support for the Greek Industrial Association in both the development of 2016 on SYRIZA and now with the New Democracy, because they are about no one else. The bill was based on the Pissaridis report, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, the new regional aid map, the new NRP and others. The classic content and orientation of these have been revealed about the effects that the people will pay and the destruction of jobs, such as 15 000 jobs from liberation. You say that new jobs will be created, hiding that they will be much less than those that will be lost, poorly paid and with less rights. At the same time, the wind turbines parks are destroying environmentally protected areas and, of course, the high-priced energy produced breaks popular households and fuels them accurately and inflation. You are enthusiastic and propagandaing the thirteenth new thematic support schemes. But they are choices based on the capitalist profit of the groups rather than on the needs of the people that relate to health infrastructure, natural disasters, earthquakes or snow and others. You seek support in sectors that have comparative advantages, such as tourism investments, alternative forms of tourism, large investments, as well as digital and technological transformation, green transition, environmental upgrading of enterprises that occupy the majority of billions of euros from the Recovery Fund. The rest of the industries and services, i.e. mineral wealth, LARCO, defence industry, textiles, anti-military and anti-Semitism armour and others are thrown into the basket of unusables, because capitalists are not interested. Accelerate and simplify procedures, reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens, for a faster and more flexible pro-investment environment, strengthening competitiveness, satisfying the new needs of businesses. You seek the clearance of applications on sixty days and join the hundred days of investment in development law, from two years that are today. I wish you were doing the same for the pensions of employees and self-employed. Not only did you cut it with your memoirs, but it takes two and three years to get out. And I wish you were so fast with the thousands of locked-up drivers and the restoration of electrode damage for thousands of households. That's right. However, there is a barrage of subsidies and incentives in groups. Firstly, an income tax exemption which starts with the achievement of 50% of the investment costs and is used for up to 15 years. At the same time to address the high inflation and the constant price rises in people's incomes, deny the abolition of VAT on energy and on wide-popular consumption, but also on the excise duty on fuel, as the JRC suggests, although the popular layers pay 95% of taxation while only 5% are taken from money, capital. That's your class policy. Secondly, free subsidy from the State to the investment by fulfilling 25% of investment costs, reaching 70% and in some cases 80% and 100%. Thirdly, a public leasing subsidy for doses of new machinery and other equipment up to seven years. However, refuse through ELGA to compensate damaged mechanical equipment and machinery for large floods and fires. Refugee to self-employed derecognise debts, reduce taxation and reinstate tax. Fourthly, a subsidy for public employment created in new jobs linked to the investment project. I mean, free business for groups. Fifth, risk finance with interest rate subsidies on loans paid to credit institutions. But you are not subsidising agricultural oil and electricity. There are other advantages, of course, for big business, such as the assessment that can be carried out by an audit firm at the choice of the investor. "Yiannis drinks, Yiannis buys." The evaluation is recommended by a Ministerial Decision of the Investment Plan Assessment Committee, opaque procedures with ministerial decisions to define key things ignored by the House. You allow investment projects that are aided to change and be subject to another aid scheme. I mean, a lot of flexibility. In fact, grants, leasing subsidies and wage costs will also be covered by the public investment budget. You will deprive them of the popular needs, such as modern school rooms and not containers, anti-military armour to avoid destroying popular property, anti-Semitism, especially in schools, modern student homes, homes and so on. That is why the development laws and the one we are discussing now concern large businesses. The committee meetings, but also now in plenary by SYRIZA and the Change Movement, have been criticised that small businesses are not being strengthened and are not joining. A lot of hypocrisy, because the previous developmentists were not involved, as they are now, but only few small businesses with a specific object. The evidence is documentary. In the previous law of 2016 on SYRIZA, seven hundred forty-four projects of micro-enterprises were integrated by eight hundred thousand. I mean, not even 0.01%. A characteristic example of this bill is the thematic axis, the status of European value chains, which, as described above, concern sectors that are European value chains, in order to achieve economies of scale, improve the quality of products and services produced, make the coordination of the supply chain effective and create outward conditions. These are propagandad by New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement and are presented in recent years as a solution for micro-enterprises. In other words, this will ensure their sustainability and increase productivity. However, state support is given to a very limited number and object, micro-powered computers, high performance accumulators, connected and autonomous vehicles, cybersecurity, personalised medicine and health, low-carbon, hydrogen industry, the internet of things, that is very few, micro-enterprises and self-employed. That's the truth. It is also a challenge for six thematic schemes, agri-food, processing, tourism, alternative tourism, large investment and European value chains, where increased rates are granted at 100% of the ceiling established for investments in areas affected by natural disasters. It is challenging, in the affected areas where state compensation to small professionals and farmers is very slow, with great damage in the past few months, now extra money and benefits are being channelled into a handful of larger businesses. You're giving them help. But also in the agri-food sector, small and medium-sized farmers who pay enormous amounts of electricity, fertilisers, pesticides, feed, oil, etc., while raising production costs. Basically, it concerns aid to capitalist enterprises, companies. That is why none of this has anything to do with development law, with what the people need, especially in infrastructures not to drown in winter and not to burn in the summer. What do they need? Cheap and in sufficient energy, utilizing all domestic sources of energy, from lignite, hydroelectric, wind, etc., with systematic research and new sources. Fast and cheap transport of persons and products - without tolls - and similar infrastructure in ports, airports, railway stations, roads that do not close with snow, transport industry. The same concerns telecommunications, raw materials processing, manufacturing industries, in particular the production of machinery for a powerful economy, reducing dependence on external trade, as well as the socialization of land and capitalist enterprises in the agricultural sector, forming production units for agricultural production and processing, public and free of charge health, education, welfare, safety, recreational protection of children and young people, very cheap transport services, telecommunications, energy and water for popular consumption, etc. That's what the people need. This development that eliminates regional imbalances will be implemented by central planning by branch regional and by category, will be growth for the people in the digital age rather than capital. This increases jobs and new generations of workers will not work on worse terms than the previous ones, but rather on better terms. Such a growth in favour of the people with capitalist governments cannot be carried out, because the capitalist's profit serves! So it needs a coordinated struggle from a movement with an anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist direction that resolutely changes the correlation within it and massages its action, extracts conquests and generally contributes to the improvement and change of the correlation of class struggle, exploiting all difficulties, breaches in the urban political system, so that it passes into a new phase of rescheduling and conflict with the bourgeoisie and the organs of power. With such fighting positions and action, workers, people's incomes will be defended, improving working and living conditions, reducing working time, permanent and stable work, the content of public and free education, preventing, primary health care and the situation in state hospitals, protecting motherhood, quality of life with functional free green areas, upgrading of anti-missiles, anti-military, earthquake infrastructure and projects, ensuring modern popular housing and others. Because the real progressive is the social relationship which allows the use of means of production and the development and distribution of labour according to scientifically established objectives for popular prosperity. Therefore, growth for the people means the people themselves to make a test for the economy and society, for a society that labour power, health, education, energy, water and the environment will no longer be goods. And the production process, for what will be produced, how and where, will be based on social prosperity rather than capitalist profit. Because historical experience has confirmed that increasing the size and profitability of capital does not go hand in hand, but is a major obstacle to the well-being of the people, according to existing technological and productive potential. As the distance increases, therefore, the gap between modern technological and scientific capabilities, the era of digitisation and the fourth industrial revolution by guaranteeing social well-being, the life of the people will be strengthened so as not to lose capital. This is the cruelty and rottenness of the capitalist system. It does not solve popular problems, but it worsens them. It's not made, then, it's not covered, but it's overthrown. We therefore vote against your bill because it is hostile to the people and their needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I quote that the debate on a good development law, especially if it has at least a ten-year perspective, is more important than the budget debate. As it relates to the production of wealth on the part of both the public and private sectors of our country, when the budget relates mainly to tax revenue and public expenditure. However, when the bill does not have the seriousness it is due, the discussions have no meaning, unfortunately. We will now start by saying that since the government came to power, since the second half of 2019, Greece has experienced a significant decline in growth - immediately after the second largest recession in Europe of 9% - despite the fact that it is the only country that lost 25% of its GDP in previous years of the memorandum. Today, he is experiencing an accuracy unprecedented, poverty and frustration despite the development plans that have been voted on, as well as an energy Armageddon, which by at least 50% is not imported but is due to the brutal mistakes of the government, namely the early deflation without a plan and the energy stock exchange, which we had voted against by warning at the time what would happen and by reminding him that something like this went bankrupt through ENRON. Without competitive energy costs, however, it is impossible for the country to develop sustainablely no matter how much bills are submitted. So it is the first solution to this problem than anything else. We could, of course, be opposed by the Minister by saying that in 2021 we had, or rather we would have, a growth of 8.5% to 9%, at least with our forecasts from mid-year. Unfortunately, the truth is quite different, in that the country simply returned to better than 2019 GDP, but at a huge cost of EUR 43.3 billion being wasted on credits, increasing our public debt by about 26% of GDP with additional twin deficits. Continuing, frankly, we are unable to understand why the government does not apply the self-evident thing. In particular, given that the fourth rate of GDP, the trade balance, is reducing GDP if it is negative, each development plan must focus there, namely, on increasing exports and reducing imports with support for domestic investments - we stress it! - not on selling foreigners who lead to added value in their countries. However, then a liberal state must be small, but strong to control individuals. Otherwise, they become their slaves as in the recent issue of the Attica Road or the 'TRAINOSE'. Obviously, it does not allow monopolies and cartels, which are now releasing the Greeks before all banks. So only a country can produce wealth instead of losses and debts, increasing the competitiveness of its economy by investing, so wages and at the end of consumption and not at the beginning of consumption, as is happening today with the EUR 43 billion loan. To achieve this, of course, all this needs a vision, a plan and a change in our failed economic model. But the government does not, unfortunately, have a vision or a plan. It is, to such an extent that it is dependent on lenders who have not even allowed it to be understood, to reduce VAT on primary energy and on energy, as we have proposed, while the Minister for Development has announced this very well, but later on. It goes without saying that, on the one hand, inflation would have been combated, on the other hand, citizens would have been supported at no cost for the public, because they would have received the same VAT on increased prices. Furthermore, there would be no problem in implementing the budget as it provides for inflation - hourly forecasts! - 0.8% for 2022. We remind you here that Poland has already reduced VAT. Because, now, the Minister for Development has carried out one of his well-known cubs, saying that he has not promoted the reduction of VAT because he does not know what these goods will be, for how long and how much it will cost, as we will present in the Minutes, it is right to inform him of what Poland has gone through. Poland, before the pandemic, had 5% VAT on basic foods and 8% on the focus, when we had 13%, while its basic VAT rate is 23%. I will testify in their minutes coefficients from a number of countries later. On the basis of the information from her Ministry of Finance, which we will submit to the Minutes to inform the Minister, let's see what the main goods are. Foods, with a 5% coefficient, include bread, meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, pasta and starches, eggs, fruit and vegetable juices, soups, broths, as well as baby food. We always want to be precise. 8% includes sugar, spices, some processed foods, farmland such as seeds, fertilisers and pesticides, as well as pharmaceuticals, while in 2020 it placed some extra products in 8% because of the pandemic. Furthermore, in November 2021 it reduced VAT on natural gas from 23% to 8% and electricity to 5% in January - March, while it wanted to reduce VAT on food to zero, but the European Union refused it. However, because Poland is an independent and not a debt colony, in January 2022 it completely abolished VAT on basic food and energy, and supported five million of its weakest households to cope with inflation. Hopefully, now that the Minister has been informed about what he should do and what goods and also what time it has been, it is clear that the government is committing errors and, furthermore, it is moving our ever greater energy dependence, burdening our trade balance and therefore GDP, with increased, but also more expensive energy imports. Furthermore, in a next committee, the Minister complained that we accused him of having done nothing, which is certainly not the case, since we never have anything to do with it. Everybody's doing something. It's just not enough on the basis of our experiences to date. As he said, in the two and a half years of his term of office he has approved EUR 8.1 billion of investment projects with State aid of EUR 2.8 million. But is it true that the investment gap in Greece because of the catastrophic memorials that he - and others - exploded more than EUR 150 billion? What is EUR 8.1 billion against an investment gap of EUR 150 billion and more? On the other hand, how do we justify today's about three and a half thousand unfinished investments? Who is responsible for them if not the Minister for Development, whose work, as he quite rightly said, is measurable? Continuing, I ask: What is the new draft of the government? Our conversion to a dependent economy through the sale of our public and private businesses to foreigners? On the contrary, didn't Hungary, which experienced a major crisis in 2008 and was led to the IMF when a truly patriotic liberal government won the elections in 2010? Didn't the IMF immediately send out and did it not achieve an economic miracle by repaying it within three years? As far as Poland is concerned, we said that it adopted the plan of responsible development - not fair, responsible - based on five pillars: reindustrialisation, the development of innovative companies, the attraction of investment funds, the focus on exports and extroversion, as well as balanced social and regional development. Very important. In addition, it launched the largest public programme for newly created enterprises in Europe, the 'Start in Poland' inspired by the Israeli 'Yozma', i.e. by the use of public money to attract foreign investments to Israeli companies, but enterprises, with a view to boosting domestic investment - we stress again: domestic investment - and not, of course, foreign investment. Is it really difficult for Greece to function accordingly, rather than its governments consumed bills on bills? We recall that in 2008 Israel had USD 215 billion and we $356 billion, and today Israel doubled it to 400 billion and we reduced it to half. As far as today's draft law is concerned, we will begin with an important point of it, as well as with our final conclusion. In particular, in paragraph 10 of Article 19, the Minister of Development will publish a guide to assessing projects, which is of course very important to the bill. However, it is not included in the bill. "It will" publish it, which means that an vague act has been filed for legitimisation. Even worse, it means that some plans will be approved to collect money, which we do not know if there are any, from committees that may change and on the basis of criteria that will be set at any time by the Minister. Isn't that a comedian? Could we really ever vote for that? The bill with the incredibly popular title "Greece - Powerful Development" is a well-known misunderstanding, since, in essence, it promotes the actions of "Greece 2.0". In particular, if someone sees the eligible costs, it will find that they are investments in imported RES technology, for energy efficiency, for recycling, for consultancy services, for vocational training and for the recruitment of cheap workers, effectively forming the framework of the Recovery Fund together with digitisation. More specifically, the thirteen areas of aid are listed in the second part as follows: Digital and technological transformation of enterprises - all are fine words, but nothing is proven - green transition - environmental upgrading of enterprises, new business, fair development regime, research and applied innovation, agrifood, primary production and processing of agricultural products, fisheries and aquaculture, processing - supply chain, business extroversion, strengthening of tourism, alternative forms of tourism - increasing and again tourism - large investments, European chains of value and, finally, entrepreneurship 3600. We asked what "Entrepreneurship 3600" means without, of course, getting any answers. We hope you'll answer later. The aid framework for each chapter, i.e. the aid area, is divided into the following six Articles, which are largely repeated: the objective, subordinated investment projects, eligible costs, types, intensity and amounts of aid, beneficiaries, evaluation or rapid authorisation for large investment. Finally, there is an authorisation to establish a special regime framework. Returning to the title "Greece - Powerful Development" to say it sounds like an election motto. Hopefully, it is not euphemism, such as the "Freedom" for the 2019 vaccine or development bill entitled "Investing in Greece". Eventually, who invested? LAMDA, with the contribution - in return - to the Greek, data centers, the 'FRAPORT' with our own money from the NSRF? Who? On the other hand, what exactly does it mean for the government? GDP growth in the following years by 5%? 6%? 7%? Isn't there a certain target? Just theories? What is the point in dealing with bills without objectives? How will their success be judged? If it were a business, would those who produced a business plan not immediately be fired? Continuing to the financing of the draft law, the following types of aid are included: tax exemption, the provision of an amount from the State, a leasing subsidy, a wage subsidy, an interest subsidy for loans or insurance costs and others. What is not mentioned, however, is where the money will be found for these benefits and subsidies at least, while the exemptions and other subsidies are, of course, an indirect cost. More generally, now, the General Accounting Office of the State does not mention anything about the cost of the bill, that is to say, financing, just stressing that they will be dealt with by budgetary appropriations, as well as by the number of applications. Is it possible, in fact, to launch a programme of strong growth - not so strong growth - in the title of the bill, without knowing how much money we have to spend? Can anyone ever take responsibility for private sector companies with such logic? It can't be. We could, of course, be opposed by the Minister, saying that the money will come from the European Union's Recovery Fund, justifying our rush to demand first money and to vote on today's law. But how much are we going to collect in 2022? As mentioned in the budget debate, recovery from the Recovery Fund in 2021 was only EUR 600 million when the forecast in the medium term was EUR 1,600 million. Is it possible to make such wrong predictions? On the other hand, the Public Investment Programme amounts to EUR 7.8 billion in 2022, below EUR 8.35 billion in 2021, while the NSRF - not only investment but also benefits, etc. - for the period 2021 - 2027 will amount to EUR 21 billion, as far as the previous period is concerned. How much money, then, will really be made available for growth and where exactly will they come from? In conclusion, I would like to say that in the committees we have mentioned in detail many articles in all three chapters of the bill, so there is no time to repeat them, let alone when we have asked questions which have not been answered, almost none of them. However, we consider it appropriate to reiterate that the most paradoxical is that in Article 30 and in the areas of a fair transition that the New Democracy has voted for, apart from those which are particularly affected, such as Kosani and Megalopolis, the regions of the islands have also been involved with diesel plants, namely Crete and Rhodes, as well as the northern Aegean. Will Crete and Rhodes be faced with the same problems as liberation, such as Megalopolis? By way of derogation, will investment in hotels in Crete be carried out due to its entry into the framework of liberation? Isn't that the definition of ridiculousness? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arsenis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. MPs, MPs, Minister, do we need a development law right now, do we have a development problem? We have a huge development problem. For the first time, we have the threat of so many businesses being closed down from the point of view of accuracy. In my constituency, a bakery making bread using electricity, paid PPC EUR 1,000 on average on accounts and arrived to pay 4,000 euros. By December the accounts had reached 27,000 euros from May. They paid 10,000 euros, they had settled for the rest, but they won't stand the next bills. Business like this oven, which for the first time is threatened with closure and dismissal of workers, has always been economically viable until May. Who are these businesses? The backbone of our economy, which produce 90% of employment, public revenue and income from the insurance funds. Many of them managed to survive with the memorials and now for the first time they are closing, with the coronary and the accuracy. What does the development law you bring for them? It doesn't include anything. Because it is not for you that they are closing down, it is an opportunity, an opportunity for what is included in your development and it is nothing but how you will help the big companies to get the money from the Recovery Fund - the same framework you are setting up in development - to collect these economic activities in their hands. Small entrepreneurship in our country has always been a problem for you. It was always a problem in the Bank of Greece's reports, it was a problem in McKINSEY's reports, it was a problem in all the reports you consult and classified as your book from time to time. They talked about a future in Greece without small businesses, that the future is in the concentration. You have not succeeded in implementing this plan with the Memorandums. Now you are making the coronary crisis and the exact opportunity to implement it. I'll give an example. Korais Square in the center of Athens. We said about western Athens a moment ago. Let's see what's going on downtown. In Korai Square there were always three fast-fashioned, fast-fashioned shops, which had sandwiches and various other kinds eaten by the street and by the square. It was three different shops, some were closed, some were opened. It wasn't a chain. Today if anyone who listens to us and anyone who goes to Korai Square, they will see three chains in their place, a foreign and two Greeks, who obviously also expect their fate sometime to be redeemed. This is the future you achieve, the future that is accelerating with this piece of legislation. Do you want to talk about what a development law should include? But, of course, a development law means that it highlights what exists, protects it and gives way for the further. You level out small businesses to stand the skyscrapers of the oligarchs. This phrase for me is the X-ray of your development law. You are doing the same with the Recovery Fund, EUR 60 billion in practice in the hands of the large, 1,5 billion euros in the hands of small and medium-sized enterprises, but let us see how much of this will go to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is inalienable that they have access to bank lending, as is the case here. He said so, and the EVEA said so. Which small and medium-sized enterprises have access to bank lending? About 5% of small and medium-sized enterprises. Who are these? Mostly medium-sized, which are, in fact, pieces of groups and are artificially divided into small enterprises so that they can have access to various funding. For the little ones in practice, nothing. Another phenomenon that we have seen in this development project is that you are taking SYRIZA's incomprehensible contract with 'FRAPORT', which provides for no obligation on the 'FRAPORT' that took the fourteen major airports of the country to be insured against the business risk. And what does it predict? That the State takes the risk to the ‘FRAPORT’ business risk. In other words, whenever the 'FRAPORT' itself considers it, on the basis of the estimates only made by itself - not even by a financial company itself - and we have also read the report 'DELOITTE', which said that 'FRAPORT', on the basis of the contract, has the only right to assess its profits - and its losses ultimately. And not the damages, the evasive profits, the gains that she has earned less than she appreciated, you have an obligation to give them to her, to say a little more clearly, to give them to her, to give them to the firms that are closing from time to time. However, when he made the claim for compensation, state lawyers said that this contract could also deny part of the compensation to "FRAPORT" and went to arbitration and your Government stopped the arbitration procedure and SYRIZA voted "residents". I would really like you to explain this article to us, to understand what its logic was. But for this development law, obviously, you were complaining about the fact that for them you have no corresponding gifts, and you have put for these large businesses the cover of business risk insurance from the development law, as well as the covering of leasing. That is, from the development law you give money to go not to the production of wealth - how much more you give it to go to the shed of wealth of the young - but you give money to give it to insurance, too, to buy services from the development law, not to produce activities. Of course, we have to look at the great picture. The big picture is that the middle and poor in our country must not have the right in your government to attempt. He and his children must be workers and workers without rights. If they live in a house that goes beyond the working class, what corresponds to the working class, they will lose it through your bankruptcy law that you brought and legislated in November 2020 in the middle of a lockdown. Again, I would also ask SYRIZA to understand how SYRIZA means to protect the first home, without abolishing the HERAKLE project with the EUR 23 billion of guarantees given to predators, which you now call service providers, namely service providers? What services do SYRIZA provide? But the realization of people's homes. And these people will lose their homes, and we will give EUR 23 billion to the funds to keep people's homes at the same time, when the price they find on the market is about below a percentage of the objective value. And instead of stopping this crime, you continue it because you want these people to have no choice, nor to attempt as self-employed, as entrepreneurs nor to have a decent job, nor to have a house that surpasses the poor's home. Of course, you also deprive them of education. You opened the schools in the middle of COVID, without taking any measures. Actually, you did. You brought together over seven thousand departments, putting students and teachers, who, due to the lack of recruitment, have a very large average age, at great risk. There are, of course, many students absent from the educational process, there are no teachers and what is going on? There are no courses in which these students will be required to be examined through the theme bank. Does it bother you? No, of course not. In private, the issue will be resolved. That is a public problem. Apparently, these kids are going to be cut off in their probationary exams and tests for entering the university. But you don't mind. Here you cut forty thousand students who didn't teach their materials through tele-education. And you cut them off by changing the system and tightening it up, after you left out of the educational process for two years schools. Are you going to have a problem with the kids that are going to be cut off now? No problem. At the same time, you will be blocked by the "Pedidian" Hospital of Pentelis. And since there has been a lot of discussion, I will repeat the Minister's statements on your plans for hospitals. Because it's not just the Children's Hospital, Pentelis. They're all hospitals that you're putting under assessment for who you're gonna close and who you're gonna keep. No hospital right now is in the unavoidable. Mr Ploris said - and I will tell you what he said today in the House - in his statements in an interview with ERT, on public television: 'We should see which hospital will have central services for the other hospitals as well...'. He said first of all that if a hospital provides all the services, which are upgraded, there is no question of change. For the rest of the regional hospitals around him, twenty or twenty-five kilometers away, to keep what is necessary. That's what he said. The meeting was preceded by the meeting of Ms. Gaga, the Deputy Minister of State with twelve members of the New Democracy doctors and the plans are well held to shrink the hospitals. Really, what you understood from the pandemic is that we need fewer hospitals, that we're being spared by the hospitals? Is that what you understood from the pandemic? Is that what you understood from the Chiodra report, that we are spared by health structures? On the basis of the Chiodra report, thousands of people died because we had many hospitals? Is that what you understand? Is that why the solution is to shut it down? What did Minister Ploris say in my current topical question about the Children's Hospital? "The Children's Hospital", Mr Arseni, you are inaccurate when you say it will be closed. Its full function will be restored.' Of course, then - to another Member - he said there would not be twenty-four days. And then he will be evaluated and judged. Understood? But I want us to understand something else, to help us decode it here together. Does the government, with a hundred casualties of our fellow people a day from COVID, have time to process the plan to shrink the ESS? Where do you find him this year? But you find him the time to plan the closure of business in a precise way, to give the money for the construction of the oligarchs' skyscrapers, when you level out small entrepreneurship, when you exclude students from education, because this is your model: education, entrepreneurship, that is to say, the right to make your own business, to make use of the Greek demon, which has always existed in this small entrepreneurship. And yes, we differ from other countries, we have a demonium that leads people to attempt with personal businesses or with businesses that employ other people and thus produce our GDP and produce employment and income in public funds. This is an obstacle to you. You want to level these operations to uproot the towers of the oligarchs. If you deprive people of the right to attempt, you are making education a privilege and not a right, a privilege and not a right to health and obviously a privilege to housing. I want to close, however, for the climate collapse, which we are experiencing every day. You've brought a law for the ultimate state. You're predicting the climate clause in every bill. In other words, every bill should respond to the urgent needs of the survival of humanity and Greece against the climate collapse. Where's that in your bill? Where is this in your bill? Do you want me to repeat the criticism made by environmental organisations, that you are not respecting the European acquis, the environment? PART25 is voting against the developmentist. It calls on you to withdraw this bill and bring in a development plan that responds to the problem facing our society today. The accuracy that closes business, that's the problem, and not how to gather all the big ones, which is your purpose and the reason why you brought the development law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr Arseny. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Protection of Citizens, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport and State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Health and Home Affairs, tabled a draft law on 31 January of this year on "Strengthening the 29-7-2021 Individual Donation Convention - Project II, Annex 11 of the 6-9-2018 main donation contract between the Foundation “Customs Foundation of Stavros Niarchos” and the Greek State on strengthening and upgrading health infrastructure". We are now entering the first circle of speakers, with Mr Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy, and then Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor and I ask all my fellow Members to keep the time of seven minutes because we have a hundred and twenty-two speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the rapporteurs for opposition. I conclude that SYRIZA and PASOK - a change movement will probably vote in the first place, because by listening to the arguments they have put forward on many points, I think they are in agreement with the law. It was an approach which I would adopt as one point. So I do not see why the bill should not be voted on at first. As far as the JRC is concerned, it has remained in the utopia that the major revolution will take place some time. For the rapporteur of Mera25, what I have to say is that he has probably created a virtual reality and he thinks that this is the reality. It destroys asymmetrically, uses the same arguments and is never specific to the bills to which it refers. In any case, however, I am going to talk about the development law, since forty years it has been the area I have been dealing with, it is the area of private industrial and craft industries. I don't know how many of you you remember the notorious n.1262/1982. It was a start at that time, so that grants with cash built industrial and craft units could be started throughout the region. It was a first attempt at regional development. It's been forty years since. That law, of course, filled up the province, the region, with many industrial shells, while millions of billions of funds were wasted in drachmas at that time. It's been like I told you for forty years. All governments have tried to improve this context. We have reached a law today that tries, attempts, and in the end will succeed in all these malfunctions leaving them behind and being a useful tool for all investors and small and medium-sized ones. Because the development law is mainly needed by small and medium-sized investors. That's forty years. The major investors do not need development law so much and, above all, the businesses, which the current government and the heads of government are constantly attracting. This law, however, also has another advantage, which some of the Opposition present as a disadvantage. What's that? It follows a coherent plan. It follows from the Recovery Fund, followed by the NSRP 2021-2027, followed by the equitable transition plan, and in this way we have, in fact, acquired what we have been hearing for years, calling for a coherent plan, for the country to have a bosom, where it is going. At the same time, and in this category I would also include the pilot projects, which will be done under the standard contracts, in a manner of PPPs, which are also coming to Parliament in a short time. These all interventions have reached the market, believe me. At the moment, there are hundreds of small and medium-sized businessmen waiting to get out of the Ministry of Application Laws, most likely decisions, and everything else that is needed so that - and this is very important, Mr Ministers - you can accept applications. Believe me, the system will fall. The system must be able to withstand. I am talking with investors right now across Greece, there is an orgasm and this orgasm that is mainly made for small and medium-sized investment will also be the biggest response to the opposition. We should all be well here and talk about it in a few months, because I see many of the districts that will live it, the results of the development law will come to light. These areas to which the development law refers are specific and I do not see why I should mention them. The rapporteur has also mentioned them. But the interventions made in this development law, in relation to the previous law, are important and are important because, above all, yes, red tape. You know, previous development laws, most of them, gave too much space, not to the investor, gave too much space to all those involved in investment, advisers, to all these companies that are around investments, not to the investor. And that is what this law is trying to achieve, to be really next to the investor and to reduce red tape to the extent possible. Another very important part of this bill is that investors can now buy existing facilities. Be careful, throughout Greece, unfortunately, the decade that has left many industrial deer. It is therefore time for these industrial deer to take life and thus for the region to take another life and continue to fall as much as possible. Private investment means falling unemployment. Finally, I believe, Mr President-in-Office, that 30% of the sample itself is large. To reduce it further, if we can, to allow investment to go faster. Sampling means extra bureaucracy. Finally, I believe that we should look back at the question of cost assessment and viability of the investment. Perhaps the process should be reviewed, maintained in some way, but in a less stringent context. I'm so glad you said it was coming, Minister. I shall conclude by saying that you must prepare a system which can cope with the multitude of applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor and then Mr Arvanitides Georgios from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will be overhauled by the executive legislature to have three and a half years of three development laws, as well as many amendments, photographics and clipboards as a whole. I will refer to two key pillars of growth, as we are talking about development law, key pillars of attracting investment, jobs and GDP production, the security of investment linked to the rules and the rule of law, and the strategic outlook of the economy. Without investment security and without a strategic economy, no progress can be made. So let us see what is happening in Greece, first of all, in terms of investment safety, which is linked to durability, that is, the climate crisis. I will not repeat the three-day debate we have had here. I think the whole of Greece has heard us. However, I can only mention the Prime Minister's position on the Minister's Council, that Greece's infrastructure is not always adapted to severe snowfall, because we are a Mediterranean country. I remember, however, spontaneously that in the summer, Greece was, unfortunately, a champion in the fires. So it's not just snowfall. And I would remind you that this shortage of fires is linked, firstly, by the fact that the New Democracy abolished the forest fire prevention plan, it fired five thousand workers in forest protection, but also by the fact that it was hypocritical in the budget that it had set a target for reducing burnt land and finally did high-score for fifteen years. Tragic! Remember, too, that with your own government no one's protected in the floods? I would say to you rather something else, that by the end of 2021 Greece should have reviewed the flood risk management plan, based on a European obligation, and studies have not even been commissioned. Therefore, neither in the floods nor in the fires nor in the snow can one feel safe in Greece. The Prime Minister said so too. It's also the accomplishment that draws you from the sleeve that's always the fault of others. I was listening today to the meteorologists saying that they will forget with you and what they learned at the university. There has reached your level of science! It's always the others' fault. You, of course, have never been responsible, even though you have been here for two and a half years. I could mention many other issues that create insurance for investment. The health framework is very important and I can only say today that we had nineteen victims today, as a statement of a tragic number, which creates problems in the economy as well. No one feels safe with the Mitsotakis Government!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u373	You better come to the point, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u374	I would like to tell you, however, that at the same time today, in Thessaloniki, at the "PANIKOLAOU Hospital" it was announced that we had nine hundred victims from the beginning of the pandemic, two thirds of whom were outside intensive treatment units. I will, however, remain on another issue, on energy costs, which affect development and investment, and which should be signalled by the developmentist, who has no special provision for energy communities, to understand the contradictions. The great opportunity, therefore, of Greece seems to be the big problem, and that is why Mr Mitsotakis is responsible. January closed and Greece's development has to deal with the fact that Greece is again a champion at the cost of wholesale trade in Europe. We are the first country, the most expensive in wholesale, with 227.3 euros. It seems that this government is aiming to be the first - from the end - but - in Europe. We don't like this Greece. We're clear. This is Greece that probably likes the Minister of Development. However, this Greece where cartels and oligopoly are handled, and we have precision, does not help development law. I sincerely want you to tell us: What have you done for the purchase, so that it can reach the businesses reduced energy costs? Nothing. Nothing has been done about the market and entrepreneurship. The subsidies for households in the first four months are subsidising a very small section and what are they doing? They finance the energy cartel, they don't cut prices. But in entrepreneurship from oven to crafts, nothing! Not even to the farmers. In fact, you promised that you would do something for farmers - look out - five months after the Mitsotakis announcement at the Exhibition. You have gone through three amendments and it has not been possible to write a ministerial decision on what is going to happen with the agricultural power both with the TECs and with the agricultural and livestock enterprises. That's who you really are! And you announce that entrepreneurship will receive a subsidy in January and perhaps in February 50% in energy costs? And what do you announce that this is the cost? It's 65 euros a megawatt now. But, well, you're making fun of businessmen? Do you think they don't know that this subsidy that he announced, if ever arrives, is 28% of the surcharge's energy cost? That is to say, take note of the example: business in particular, which we have the account, EUR 3 000 power. Adjustment of EUR 9,500. The government's measures are subsidising the EUR 2 000. So, the EUR 7,000 exceeds the cost plus EUR 3,000, a total of EUR 10,000 account for a business that pays three grand who pays for it? The Minister of Development? I don't think so. He'll always make it! The same is true of a farmer: the euro 1 000 euros, 2 000 euros a clause. What's the subsidisation going to be? It's gonna be 500 euros. The rest of 2,500 who's gonna pay for it? What are you going to tell professionals who can't tell you because of your government, who left up to five days of businesses and households without power in Attica. We had a report from a nursing home that had no power and could neither go nor leave the workers and are still looking to write a ministerial decision. And you are announcing that, for February too, the subsidy will reach around EUR 65, which is 30% of the increase. The remaining 70%? The Prime Minister said 80%. It's either a liar or you don't know what's going on. Pick. Both dangerous to entrepreneurship. The "market insecurity" factor today is called Kyriakos Mitsotakis, called Adonis Georgiadis, the Ministerial Council of New Democracy. Because the only ones who know how to make their way are the “false ones”. Because another problem of the market is corruption. Because today under 'night' rules it becomes policy through Maximos. Because the 'night' has entered the government's operating procedures. Because the 'night' speaks at least half of the ministers. But you do not understand that they affect entrepreneurship, the security and law framework in Greece. And the Energy-Energy Regulatory Authority finally comes and says to us: There is no complete forward market, there are no fixed contracts, there is no management of the oligopolises. We say it out loud: The cartels play a game and within this development, what is it, so we can just talk about it? The decisions are concentrated on the Minister, they are balanced by small and large people to play, who obviously have more potential, the decisions are gathered in Athens and the regional functions are reduced, there is difficulty in joining the small, very large bureaucratic entrepreneurial entrepreneurial, reducing the public's capabilities, because you want the Greek state to be weak, resurrected in sectors that are not the same development advantage and increasing the divisions in the region. And then you wait for a market like this, where competition rules are not respected, to move forward. And what is the biggest problem the developer has? What lacks the strategy, a strategy that you received, because we had a development strategy, which the institutions knew and which had approved it, and you come here to cancel, and the green transition plan, why? Because without rules in the wild West, your buddies are getting more easily settled. That's not growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the WWF has proposed to you that we put the European Union's registration regulation in place. You haven't put him in. You have put the obligation in Article 25.4 to introduce provisions of this kind. You do not put them in development, very simply because you want to make communication policy with the environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the main proposal put forward by SYRIZA and it is that subsidies should be linked to the environmental and energy footprint of each undertaking. We propose it clearly: Zero Waste-Zero Carbon, i.e. zero waste-zero climatic costs, is the basic rule to structure the society we want, to compete, as Greek entrepreneurship abroad, in order to have a sustainable society and to reduce energy poverty. That is why you are not talking, because you very simply want to abolish the general rules, everyone in a torva and in the Minister's office to make the locks.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u375	Finish, Mr. Femmel, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u376	So, indeed, the Right knows how to run the test, but that bankrupt us. We would like to discuss green transport. We don't see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Famelle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u378	On the contrary, we have seen two hundred buses in the center of Thessaloniki tell you that for over a year and a half you have forgotten about transport. So is energy communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Famelle, I'm talking to you! Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u380	So - Mr President, I conclude - neither the legal security environment nor the resilience environment nor the clear rules are guaranteed. And the basic: No strategy you want to play your games with corruption, but not to support Greek entrepreneurship and Greek work. That is why it is socially necessary to leave as soon as possible, because you are dangerous for all of Greece. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u381	I would ask that the time be respected, otherwise it is always at the expense of colleagues. You saw what happened with the motion of censure. Some fifty colleagues have not been able to speak, because you are breaking the time. That's not right. Mr. Arvanitides George from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u382	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the development law was caught in "Elpida" and, unfortunately, stuck in SYRIZA's micro-political games. We have all lived for a week in which two things have become clear: firstly, the collapse of the New Democracy Staff State and secondly, the lack of a substantial alternative by SYRIZA. And so, I fear that with these minds and attitudes in New Democracy and SYRIZA growth in our country will be delayed many more weeks if political connections do not change. Unfortunately, this law does not bring and promise no growth. And if the development law was too late to come to Parliament, I fear that real and sustainable development would be much longer. Firstly, because growth does not simply come by voting laws and secondly, because this bill does not have a holistic approach to a development vision, but it is fragmentary. There is no clear emphasis in specific areas, which will give a different and more productive orientation to the Greek export economy. In other words, there is no target for changing the production model. It has the same logic and direction as the productive model that has unfortunately led us to the cliff in previous years. There is also no regional dimension in this bill. The comparative advantages and disadvantages of the regions are not taken into account. A substantial development law should have provision for how a large number of resources would be returned, not in the countries of the European north, by buying white devices - something you care about very much - but stayed in our country. I had hoped that the doubling of the trade deficit in just one year would ring a bell to the government, that you are once again leading us to the deadlock and the cliff. With the present bill, however, it is once again clear that your prolongation is subdued to the national interest in the paradoxic good and thus serves your friends and translators, while there should be a dominant criterion of national added value for each company subsidized by development law, which means the maximum possible benefit for the local economy and society, what we call the "sustainable development" movement with production in our country. This should be the core of a development law, what other countries do in Europe, from Portugal to Italy and Germany. But with electricity bills tripled and quadrupled, Greek companies are already going through the age of red loans, unfortunately, in the era of red electricity accounts and, unfortunately, they are staying behind and losing a large part of their competitiveness. Energy costs affect every development perspective and stimulates the competitiveness of Greek enterprises. How do we ask Greek companies to develop and foreigners to invest in our country at the energy cost to be high? Is it true or is it not, Minister, that a large number of processing undertakings are considering limiting production or even temporarily suspending production and export activities under the pressure of these high energy prices? And since we are talking about energy, bring again, Minister, a new amendment to Law 4872 on a fair development transition with Amendment No 1203. Within two months of its vote, you are amending it for the second time. That is what we are criticising of, and I am voting for - I am voting against. It is clear that you cannot, as the Ministry of Development, run any fair developmental transition and liberation, the structure and system for the fair transition that you have set up, which every time you take the floor, tell us that you have been ready for some time. With regard to Articles 38 and 44 on the green transition and the environmental upgrading of enterprises, but also Articles 51 to 57 on a fair development transition, the need and only for joint ministerial decisions setting out: firstly, the specific conditions and limitations for subsistence of investment projects in Article 44 and, secondly, the specific framework for the application of this Chapter in the context of the co-financing of investment projects by the NSRP for the 2021-2027 programming period - as referred to in Article 57(1) - makes the provisions that are vacant in substance and simply descriptive. At the same time, your law lacks the notion and criteria of the ESC, in other words indicators which record environmental, social and corporate governance performance and which should be transparently reflected. Finally, last year we have proposed with our proposal for climate law the identification of climate protection activities, products and services, adaptation to climate change and the cyclical economy, in order to put lower VAT scales on the basis of climate neutrality criteria, but something you do not seem to be adopting in this legislative initiative either. You do not prepare the Greek companies properly and in time for the green transition. Greece, Minister, has not yet been integrated into the National Development Plan, specific programmes supporting green transformation. The joint ventures, social enterprises, still seek recognition and support from the banking sector with unspeakable problems that seek solutions. The transition to a green economy is not just a chance of enrichment of one day, ladies and gentlemen of the government. It is our existence that, in order to achieve the necessary changes, this transition must be fair and its benefits must be distributed throughout the entire Greek society and not just to our friends. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that as long as the government spends the reality with wishes for transientity of inflation and accuracy, the more it spends its own responsibilities and the responsibilities of individuals, the more it thinks that by simply voting for development laws, growth will finally come, the less hope of returning to normality for our citizens and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides. Christos Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. The easier and greater access of major business groups to finance instruments, the Recovery Fund, the ESRB, the Fair Transition Plan, the PPP, more incentives, tax exemptions, exemptions, the facilitation of permits, overcoming arrangements that increase costs or impair obstacles, such as, for example, the environment, to which plans have the capital, this is the common feature of the development laws of all governments, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the SYRIZA, as well as the current New Democracy bill with measures that make labour power cheaper, in order to make the investment environment friendly. This strategy is unified. With any differences, it is served by all parties except the C.E. With this same growth with the State aid of investment groups, new jobs will be created, you say, well-paid. You say that state funds will be available for social policy, that there will be results and they will be regenerated fairly. These are the arguments you are saying. All this has proved to be delusional to the people. They targeted and targeted the manipulation of workers, their caging and their subjection to the interests of the employer. Where did this development really lead to? Employees must be at work and when, more and more cheaper, without rights, unemployment. The miracle of tourism, for example, which in this bill has a superfluous place, was based on the smashing of workers' working and insurance rights, with hunger wages, with sixteen forms of work. We're talking about modern work. It led self - employed to be more and more people who are feeling the bruising of debts to drown them and lead them to destruction. Pensioners can see their pensions singing all the time and cannot survive. Bio-family farmers should not bear the cost of production and are barely surviving or devastated. Young people and young people working and living on worse terms than their parents. All these are the victims of this policy, which shields the sovereignty of monopolistic groups, their profitability. All of these need an alliance to raise strong obstacles, to fight for their own needs. The strategy of capitalist development is the one that scans the lives of the working people's families. She's in the way of satisfying their needs. One government builds on the other the anti-grassian future of working people's families and young people. Capitalists do not invest in reducing unemployment, satisfying the needs of working folk families, but produce with the sole aim their profits. As a result of this development, unemployment, flexible forms of work, hunger wages, accidents at work or better, employers' crimes, extended poverty and misery. Capitalists implement flexible working relationships, for precisely increasing exploitation, do not contribute to covering even the minimum needs of the working family. They don't pay wages that satisfy all needs, because they reduce their profit rate, they undermine competitiveness, they say. The employer does not create adequate health and safety conditions because they have higher costs. Capitalists demand that their political staff continuously reduce the State's participation in the insurance system to save money for investments, public and private, to the benefit of capital. It calls for employers' contributions to be reduced to increase their profits. They have enclosed the funds for the development of the insurance funds and have not been returned. Their claim is made by the reserves to gamble on various products in order to strengthen business groups. And ECA’s properties should be a new source of cheap infrastructure for business groups. The aim of the bourgeoisie and its political representatives is to pay less for pensions for fewer years. The State does not have state money for an exclusively public health and welfare system. Because the health sector is profitable and is a new business and development area and state money is needed to provide capitalist investment, naval equipment and any other activity in favour of capital. There cannot be a public free education system alone, because the urban state does not want to make available state money and wants to strengthen private education on the other hand. Cheap safe housing, cheap electricity, cheap heating, cheap transportation cannot guarantee this development, because they are precisely profitable sectors for capital. What development do working people need? The development that will now satisfy, in this life, their needs for everyone to have a permanent and stable job, with a fixed daily working time, eight hours or seven hours, without unemployment without job insecurity. To have all workers' wages so that they can live, without deprivation and cover all the needs of their lives, having cheap and healthy people's housing, cheap energy, water, heating, cheap movement, cheap and quality food, clothing, footwear. To reduce, with productivity rise, working time and to increase, free time. To be able to have entertainment, rest, summer holidays. To ensure health and safety at work, with the protection of accidents and occupational diseases. Everyone should have a decent pension in sixty and fifty-five years, with a five-year reduction for heavy and unhealthy occupations. They should be given free of charge health services, medicines, with particular emphasis on prevention. Provide services to ensure physical and mental well-being and spiritual and cultural development of humans, to ensure social conditions promoting public health. Have all children only public free education at all levels. To have free provision of pro-active services, to have pro-active institutions, high-level infrastructures to protect, to care, to ensure personal dignity to people who cannot serve themselves because of age, minors, elderly or disabled persons. To be provided to all children of pre-school age public free pre-school treatment, nursery schools, kindergarten. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is also important to protect the particular needs of women, such as maternity, all those relating to her reproductive role. Removal of all business activities in these sectors. All this is purely social services. Do not tax workers, who, along with the self-employed and the bio-opportunist farmers, are today involved with 95% of the state's revenues. The possibility and necessity that exists today to meet the modern needs requires the struggle for the development path to meet these needs. The need for radical shifts in power and economy from the working class and the populace to the agenda needs to be put on the agenda. The obstacles to such growth for the benefit of the majority of the people are capitalist property. Only when it becomes social and the working class takes power will it be able to plan to satisfy the modern needs that will all be widened. And that must be the goal of the people now, so that it can get rid of the suffering and suffering that this capitalist development brings.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mrs Sophia Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the business in our country is under heavy slap. The pandemic has brought them to their limit, and you're supposed to be bringing this bill. Why? But to promote the economic development of the country by providing incentives to specific activities and sectors, as you say. Or you could just say, in specific businesses benefiting your own and serving their interests, so that we don't be fooled. As far as the beneficiaries of the aid are concerned, the beneficiary can now be an entity established or having a branch in the Greek territory. Is that practically what it means? It means that we will also support companies that have their headquarters abroad, but have a branch in Greece. You have used your help, you see, in Greek businesses and you said to expand to businesses that have their headquarters abroad! Of course, and in this bill you also fail to give wide-ranging legislative powers to the relevant ministers for determining the aid policy. If you think that is how you will achieve the growth you are evangelizing, then you are out of reality. The only way out for the real development of Greece is real wealth production. And if you really want to talk about growth with an emphasis on investment and entrepreneurship, then that can only be achieved in a state that is not bureaucraticly structured. Simplify the procedures. Be more business friendly. All sectors in the country must generate revenue and profits, from the development of the defence industry to the various areas of health and so on. Greek innovation can and must be a lever for the country's development. However, tax incentives are needed, not only to get the country back into our hands. But what we see here is that all the sums allocated to aid to the new business are small in relation to other sectors, and they should be clearly larger. And as if not all the rest were enough, but also the financial bleeding of electricity consumers for the profits of renewable energy sources, they are also given financial support through programmes. Once a perfection has to be made to those kinds of purposes. We would also like to comment on the amendment by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which provides for the delivery of voucher cheques to teachers and members of special educational staff and special assistant staff. With our question in June 2021, protocol number 7.077 we asked the Ministry of Education to pay the teachers directly. We have asked you whether you intend to take the necessary initiatives in the share of your jurisdiction, in order to compensate directly the teachers who had to pay the costs of distance teaching in the school-closed period and who taught by means of telecoms to bear the costs they have had to bear in order to cope with the difficult task of distance learning through their own resources and technology. In his reply, which we will present in the Minutes, the Ministry of Education, among other things, wrote: "In addition, in order to support distance learning in paragraph 3 of Article 4 of the Ministerial Decision published in FEK 4,900, it is foreseen that teachers who do not have a computer, tablet or smart phone, and that is why they are unable to provide distance learning are obliged to come to the school units where they are serving normally in order to offer their educational services using the educational facilities and equipment available by the school unit. The Director of Education and the Director of the School Unit, in cooperation with the Teachers' Association, shall take all measures to ensure the provision of distance learning teachers’. You did not, however, predict that in cases of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, natural disasters, second-hand disasters and third-side problems in schools' infrastructures, telecommunications is impossible. Were you expecting us to tell you the obvious? You go along with the logic of "seeing and doing", as with Article 5(2) of the amendment which extends by decision of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs the deadline for the certification of the curriculum provided by departments or schools for two years, and until 31/12-2021 it should have been completed. Extension to extension. Obviously, all these difficulties were not foreseen in the formulation of Law 4653/2020. To tell us, what percentage of undergraduate studies has so far been certified in all the university courses of all HEIs? Why are the rate of evaluation of undergraduate studies and internal quality assurance systems so slow? What about the very bad proportion of graduates on students? According to a recent report by the ETHC, which we will present in the Minutes, we are firmly in the last place in all European countries at a rate of just 8.91%, which is far from the European average of 25.33%. What is missing entirely from the present government is common sense. Finally, at every opportunity, we must mention the need to provide incentives to our six hundred thousand Greek fellow citizens who left the country in the previous years of the memoranda in order to return home. So many years and so many years, the older ones are blocking the economic development of Greece. We hear growth and we don't see. The Greek is practically frozen inside his house, and you are proud that everything is going well. Refuse to enter the logic of wealth production, which we in the Greek Solution tell you, not from the first minute, but from the first second. With the benefits policy you think you're going to take us forward. No, you've taken us too many years back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. There is now the floor for Mr Vassiliou Ypsilantis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like tonight as a Dodecanese Member to pay tribute to the fallen heroes in Imia, Christodoulou Karathanassis, Panagiotis Vlahakos and Hector Yalosso... [[Applause]] ...when that night they fell struggling and defending the Patriarchal Territories in the Dodecanese, the Imia. Immortals! As a legal and as a human, I would also like to express my satisfaction at the Greek justice of the Minister of Development, Mr Adoni Georgiadis, of the person who, together with the Deputy Minister and his colleagues, have developed development in this country and who have now made it a modern European competitive country, attracting every day investment from all over the world and making this place an example to be imitated. I would therefore like to express my satisfaction at his vindication and his and those politicians, Prime Ministers, Vice-President of the Samara Government, Professor Venizelos, Vice-President Pikrammenos and all the ministers who find their right to control the joints of power from dark rooms at that time that SYRIZA ruled from Maximos and Koumoundourou, now exposed to Greek society, exposed to all those who can think and can return justice. They can see in the eyes who were the ones who, in fact, wanted a world - wide scandal to declare it supposedly in a matter of their political opponents. But these are forgotten. They belong to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u389	Please come to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u390	Today, given this situation, with the economic reality of the last decade, needs and international conditions, it is finally becoming an extroverted model for the productive base of our economy, a new development strategy. At this juncture, the Civic Opposition with the well-known sterile, but full of negligence, ideological strangles and voids is once again essentially absent from the contribution of ideas and proposals to this great leap in the development strategy that our country needs and seeks with the development law which is being passed. The same was as a government, after the development law of 4399/2016 which introduced it started operating two years after its adoption and then evolved at a pace of note. With political change and with the different approach of the New Democracy Government, another boost was given to the economy and we had an annual induction of investments in the SYRIZA period and from the assumption of the Mitsotakis Government's duties to 31-12-2021, by 282%. The new development law does not complement or amend existing Law No.4399/2016. It provides for new and unfavourable arrangements, precisely because the former did not meet the needs and requirements of the transformation of the Greek economy and was essentially a reproduction of the previous laws. The new institutional tool reflects the spirit of strategic development plans and expresses the government's ideological position that, along with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" and a plan for the industry "Industry 4.0" are the boulevard of the development dimension that we need and are visionary for Greece. What are those measurable elements sought by the new law? Its attractiveness, by granting high percentages of State aid to private enterprises. Its effectiveness in removing bureaucratic obstacles, facilitations in approval procedures, abbreviations in service response time. Its expansion by extending the number of investment projects beyond traditional projects, by enriching products/services, as well as direct procedures, and by approving projects even in remote areas of the country. Its modernity, by exploiting for the first time the possibilities offered by General Extremist Regulation 651/2014. This law comes at a time when the new programming period of the NSRP 2021 - 2027 begins, together with the Recovery Fund that I have said and with the amendments to the European Union regulations. I would like to say that among the many schemes provided for in the law, which have been mentioned by colleagues, one of which concerns my region, the Dodecanese, and which is carried out with good percentages, ladies and gentlemen, in the tourism sector. Without undermining the effort that needs to be made in other areas too so that we do not have the monopoly, we need to look at it in the face. Minister, there are good news that you made first of all about the integration of hotels with one and two stars to upgrade them with three stars, as well as the inclusion of accommodations in various categories of tourist accommodation, which I am absolutely in agreement with and arrogant. I would also like to say that this giant called tourism must be seen from another perspective, from the perspective of sustainable development. I must mention the fact that the largest European tourist operator has already presented a pilot programme for sustainable tourism development for Rhodes. Ladies and gentlemen, the current development law can be the backdrop of the country's productive revival, using resources, national and Community resources, and building stable business structures with a view to other advanced economic countries' standards, in the Union's requirements and the specifications for which implementation will provide a significant number of jobs and wealth in the country. This aim should unite this Chamber so that this unity can function proliferationally in support of the useful national outcome. With these thoughts and my congratulations on the procedure followed, the hard consultation by the Ministry and the result, I would like to express my vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. Mr Paul Paulakis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. I will go directly to the substance of today's intervention and leave the parapolitical remarks on yesterday's event at the end of the day. Before I begin the speech, however, I cannot refer to the hundred and twenty - eight dead of today’s pandemic count, not a hundred and ten. To Worldmeter, the ETA has sent a hundred twenty-eight. It's the third worst record since the pandemic. It confirms once again what I have been telling you for so long. Bring back the monoclonals. People die from "Delta". Provide antiviral pills more quickly, and especially Paxlovid, PFIZER, because we will continue to mourn dead. Yesterday Mr Mitsotakis spoke here about 84% of vaccinated. Then why do they keep dying? Because we don't have the drugs. I'm actually going. We are talking about the NOVARTIS scandal, because I have to respond to Mr Georgiadis' challenge the day before him in his speech on the motion of censure, who asked for apologies. No, Mr. Georgiadis, we will not apologise and tell you why. Justice decisions are respected, but they are judged. The first thing I want to say is that it's not an acquittal, it's an archivist. It has not been made public, which is why we have now tabled forty-nine Members of the SYRIZA a request for documents, because the archiving decision is not made public. Mr. Georgiadis has tabled six pages and I will say what I will say in a moment. The problem is that it is not a private difference. It concerns ministers, it is a public money-sharing scandal and it must be a public document. They do not give it and we did forty-nine Members this request to be made public. And, of course, reading the six pages, I understood why he doesn't want to be made public. We are talking about a scandal in which NOVARTIS came in compromise with US justice to stop prosecution and paid 347 million, because in Greece government officials and service agents, bribed, manipulated prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Comrade, come to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u394	And here we say there's no scandal! So I read from the pages presented by Mr Georgiadis. He says: "Mr. Georgiadis certainly did not act as bribes, as he did nothing for the benefit of this company, not making sure that competitors were privileged. If he had received this money, the two million who said he received a protected witness...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u395	Mr Polakis, I will say what I said to your previous colleagues anyway, and to Mr Ypsilanti and Mr Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u396	But don't cut me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u397	Come to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u398	Don't cut me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u399	That's not the point today.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u400	There is no difference in payments at all. If, therefore, this huge sum of 2 million was paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u401	Put it in the Minutes, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u402	Don't cut me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u403	I'm not cutting you off, but this job is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u404	Don't cut me. Calm down. And these seconds will count.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u405	It'll be an equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u406	It would be unduly paid and passive for the company. So let's go to these particulars to see what independent Greek justice has not taken into account, because every decision is judged. So it says in a few words that Mr Georgiadis did not work privilegedly towards the company and to throw away its competitors. The evidence here, which the two of the three prosecutors did not take into account, is as follows. In 2012, from the pharmacies that EOPY pays there, NOVARTIS had 157 million, PFIZER 143 million, ASTRA ZENECA 131 million. In 2014, NOVARTIS from 157 million fell to 145 million. The PFIZER from 143 million to 78 million. The 'ASTRA ZENECA' from 131 million to 82 million. How do others go down and "NOVARTIS" remains with only 7% reduction? Secondly, in expensive drugs in 2013 in high-cost medicines....
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u407	That's not our point, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u408	Our point is that you do not interrupt me, Mr President. Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u409	I would refer you to the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u410	I know you have a specific setup. What I mean to say is to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u411	You'll say that for yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u412	2013... Don't talk to me. I'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u413	Let me tell you. Don't make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u414	Don't talk to me. I'll stop. In 2013, high-cost medicines...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u415	Come to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u416	That's our point. Mr. Georgiadis asked for an answer. He's challenged us. We're responding.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u417	If you don't come up with this in a minute, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Georgiadis, don't you want us to answer you? Tell the President. In 2013, high-cost medicines from EEA pharmacies...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u419	Make a timely question for Mr. Georgiadis to come. Not now. Please respect the Rules of Procedure and the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u420	No question about the archiving. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u421	I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u422	In 2013... And I'm telling you that whatever you're doing, I'll tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u423	I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u424	I know the Rules of Procedure. The congressman is self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u425	If you do not comply with the Bureau's suggestions, because you are out of the question, I will remove your floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u426	The congressman has selfishness in his word and in what he says. You're not the one to tell me if I'm out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u427	Who are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u428	I'll remove your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Georgiadis, is that what you asked for?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u430	I'll remove your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u431	Do that. Is that what you asked?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u432	Close him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u433	Leave those. That's what you and yours are used to.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u434	In 2013, high-cost medicines...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u435	I will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u436	Turn him off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u437	NoVARTIS sold 130...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u438	If you do not stop, I will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u439	This is, ladies and gentlemen, the humiliation of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u440	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u441	No, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u442	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u443	I will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u444	...130 million sold and collected 130 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u445	You will learn to respect the Rules of Procedure. If you don't stop...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u446	ABBVIE sold 31 and took 14. MERCK took 50 and paid 28.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u447	I will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u448	Mr. Georgiadis, because you can't answer, did you have the President say that? ‘AMGEN’ took 49 and paid 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u449	The first thing I've got to do is be my first disciplinary officer, call you back to class. I'm revoking you to class now!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u450	I'm on it. Call me back.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u451	If you don't stop, I'll go to second.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u452	Go wherever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u453	How does he talk like that? Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u454	There's the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u455	Get in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u456	On this basis, it appears that NOVARTIS sells 130, receives 130. Didn't she keep her payment when the others sell 50 and get 28 when the others sell 49 and get 11? Isn't there any privileged treatment?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u457	Now listen. I resuscitated you to class for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u458	Second clue...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u459	You don't conform?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u460	There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u461	You don't conform, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u462	Don't talk to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u463	I apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u464	Don't talk to me. There's the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u465	I'm removing your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u466	That's how settling it is. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u467	It's never happened before. We're in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u468	You're not taking away any reason. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u469	I'm removing your word. The debate is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u470	Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u471	If you do not comply, I will interrupt the sitting and call on the President of Parliament to announce a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u472	Call him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u473	What I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u474	Call him!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u475	I warned you. Stop in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u476	I'm telling you, until then I'm gonna talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u477	You'll stop in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u478	I'll stop in the five minutes that I... You've already eaten me three and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u479	Now you'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u480	The second one they say, the pages you've submitted, Mr. Georgiadis, which is...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, it is a broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. We in Parliament are!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u482	You can't do that. Sit down, please. I apply the Rules of Procedure. I deprived you of your word, Mr Polakis, nothing is written. I deprive you of your word. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please read the Rules of Procedure. Parliament's sitting is suspended for five minutes. To call on the President to submit the next disciplinary measure if he considers it to be reproached on the part of his colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-31-S1-commons.u483	Ladies and gentlemen, I contacted the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, and asked me to interrupt the sitting of the House for today. Mr Tasoulos added to me that Mr Paulakis, whose word has been removed, will not alter Parliament's space into an area of cheap activism and occupation by severing it. Those who tolerate him and cover him have enormous responsibilities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] End time: 22.26 ́
