ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 19-1-2022 authorisation, the minutes of the NST meeting, of Wednesday 19 January 2022 concerning the vote on all draft laws, were ratified by the Bureau of the Hellenic Republic's Ministry of Rural Development and Food and by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in agriculture.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Modification of competition law for the digital era — Amendment of Law No 3959/2011 and incorporating Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the provision of competence to the competition authorities of the Member States in order to impose more effectively the rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market’. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs and special speakers, that the parliamentary representatives, as well as the ministers - the ministers - that is, that is, that is to say, that they should come to the ministerial amendments - a priority cycle involving a speaker from each parliamentary group. Then there will be dozens of talking cycles. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Members who wish to speak by teleconferencing via the webex platform will be placed when the speakers are physically present. The bill will be discussed uniformly in principle, articles and amendments. To arrange your programme, we made a calculation with Mr. Bagiokos. Given that two Heads of State or Government have already been asked to speak - Mr Velopoulos and Mr Varoufakis probably - are also the ministers who will be coming for the amendments - count the rapporteurs and the Members of Parliament who will be left to the end for the vote, that the sitting will be closed at about 10 a.m. shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u2	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u3	Now you know what happens when the Chiefs come. You know them, don't you? About an hour will take for the Chiefs, otherwise speakers aren't many. You're thirty-one. We'd be done sooner. I wish I'd fall out and not be 22.00, but 21.00. The basic procedural proposal I think that there is no objection and that the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, Vasilias Yoyakas, should be called in Step for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the accompanying report of the bill we are debating, it is recognised that our country's performance in terms of competition, despite the significant progress made since 2019, there is much room for improvement in particular in specific areas. One reason for the low intensity of competition in our economy as a whole is excessive, complex and inappropriate regulations, which make it difficult to introduce new companies, increase the cost of existing ones and create closed markets and businesses, which are uncompetitive, outside the Greek border. The other reason for the level of competition is the effectiveness with which competition law applies. This bill comes to modernise the existing regulatory framework in our country for the protection of competition and strengthen the Competition Committee so that it can carry out its task more effectively. This is done on the one hand by incorporating into the National Law of Law No 3959/2011 of Directive 2019/1, which confers competence on the competition authorities of the Member States in order to implement more effectively national and Union competition rules and, on the other, by introducing additional provisions on competition law that take into account new market data and complement gaps identified in the 2011 Law. What does it mean to strengthen the Competition Committee, ladies and gentlemen? It means more well-being and transparency in the choice and evaluation of the human resources of the principle, in order to increase the pace of handling cases. It means exploiting know-how and expertise from the private sector as well. It means deepening cooperation with the respective authorities of the Member States. It means extending the audit powers of the Competition Committee and, indeed, in areas and methods that meet the needs of the digital economy. And of course it means strengthening the independence and financial self-sufficiency of the committee. In so far as time permits, I shall briefly refer to some of the fundamental changes brought by this bill. First of all, there are two unilateral practices that significantly harm healthy competition. It is the invitation, coercion, incentives from one undertaking to another to participate in a banned partnership between competitors. It is also an announcement of the intention of an undertaking, particularly to its competitors, to invoke its products in so far as this is to the detriment of competition. It is not a normal commercial practice and has no legitimate purpose. This is a practice which does not serve a financial result of the company, but leads to a coordinated price manipulation, a result which is a silent coexistence. Another provision allows undertakings to request the Competition Committee, on a recommendation from the Directorate-General for Competition, to establish that there is no need to take action on agreements for reasons of urgency in the public interest and to achieve sustainable development objectives. This creates legal certainty for enterprises that invest in achieving sustainable development objectives. The selection procedure for members of the committee is made more transparent and more competitive. It is supported by rapporteurs, and more insurance is being introduced for incompatibility and conflict of interest. The independence of members and staff of the authority shall be protected and specific assessment and incentives shall be provided for the positions of responsibility in particular. The necessary guarantees of independence are also given in carrying out the work of the Disciplinary Board of the Authority. The dispute settlement procedure is extended and it covers infringements such as abuse of a dominant position and vertical agreements, and provision is made for the temporary regulation of interim interim interim measures which may be exercised within a specified period. Mutual assistance between the Competition Committee and the other national authorities to protect competition in the Member States of the European Union shall be strengthened by new arrangements. This concerns administrative investigations, the performance of acts and documents and the enforcement of decisions imposing fines and financial penalties. However, the authority may find that an infringement has been committed and for which a fine cannot be imposed, in order to enable the civil courts to deal with damages. The committee's powers of investigation are also extended to the preventive control stage, including the possibility of requesting the waiver of the confidentiality of telecommunications. The possibility of imposing a penalty per day shall also be introduced for undertakings which refuse or impede the committee's investigations. The Committee will be able to collect and process personal data in the course of investigations relating to the exercise of public authority and the defence of the public interest. In this context, it is justified to limit rights and obligations in the processing of personal data. It supports the financial self-sufficiency of the Competition Committee by collecting the wrong of the mergers by the Commission and increasing the infringement in favour of the second-stage merger notices committee. There are also, ladies and gentlemen, provisions whereby the current regulatory framework is in line with the practices of the digital economy. The Competition Committee shall acquire new tools and new powers for the expansion and duplication of markets by collecting information in any digital format found on any digital medium or digital platform, provided that these are accessible to the undertaking to which the request is addressed. In the same logic, the Competition Committee may investigate commercial behavioural practices by using and algorithmic methods. A group of experts in the Competition Committee has even created the technical infrastructure needed for the specific control of algorithms. With interventions such as these, ladies and gentlemen, the effective functioning of the independent authority is being strengthened in order to deal with behaviour that undermine healthy and free competition, particularly through harmonised practices and abuse of dominant market positions. As confirmed by a number of studies, effective application of competition law will have obvious benefits for the national economy, for businesses, for consumers. In a market where competition is functioning properly, the introduction of new businesses and the taking-up of a business risk are encouraged. Investment in innovation, expansion and diversification of products and services offered by an undertaking is encouraged. In short, companies are being given a stronger incentive to offer better quality products and services at lower prices. The purchasing power of consumers is increasing, their choices are increasing. Productivity is also increasing by industry of economic activity. More wealth and more jobs are created, but the productivity of the economy generally increases, since the products of some sectors are used to produce products from other sectors. More competitive enterprises also means more competitive Greece in the international economic environment. As it emerged from the hearing of operators, this bill collectively expresses both businesses and consumers because it responds to real problems. That is why it should be supported by the broadest possible parliamentary majority. I would like to close my suggestion, ladies and gentlemen, with something I have pointed out at the last meeting of the committee responsible. It was considered by a section of the Opposition that this bill is an opportunity to lay responsibility on the Government for market revaluations from energy and primary energy to supermarkets to construction and molecular tests. Of course accuracy is at the moment one of the most important problems for our fellow citizens. It is, however, unrealistic to say, for example, that the increase in electricity charges in my tidal depreciation of PPC or that in order to increase prices in building materials it is the non-protection of micro-enterprises, because it is deliberately overlooked that the recent wave of valuations is basically an import problem. This is an international crisis, which, unfortunately, will concern us for some time yet. In this - you will allow me to say - easy criticism is the opposite of the opposition, such as the phenomenon in our country is milder than in other European countries, since inflation in Greece was the seventh lowest in the Eurozone in the last quarter of 2021 and the third lowest in the last year, that our country has the lowest rises in twelve of the fourteen categories of basic products monitored and compared with other European Union countries by a group of experts from the Competition Committee, as the President of the Commission mentioned earlier, and that the Government has proportionally taken more measures than many other European countries and in good time, in order to reduce the effects of this unprecedented international wave of accuracy, to reduce the burden of households and businesses, to strengthen the most need for controls on the market for unjustified redundancies in cases of outrage from those who are exploiting international trade. This is the reality, and let them convince some of the opposition that the government is responsible for all the evils of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u5	The rapporteur-general now has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are now concluding the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Development, which deals with competition issues and therefore with the functioning of the real economy, with questions being reasonable. Is competition in our country working properly today? Is there an effective institutional framework for consumer protection, support for their incomes and accountability for those carrying out unfair practices, and are they resenting them? Obviously not, as the New Democracy Government has tried hard to recognise them the demolition of any regulatory mechanism. The examples are characteristic, first and foremost the championship of our country at the prices of electricity and natural gas. We are first pan-European in increasing the wholesale price of electricity in December compared to November at 22%, first in increasing the price of gas from November to December again by 16%, second in the average wholesale price for the whole of 2021, but also in this month much higher than the European average and second in electricity prices based on purchasing power. The final values are more than twice as high as they were six months ago. However, we must give our warmest congratulations to the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, and to his due predictions and assessments. He told us that this was a purely global phenomenon, but in our country there is a negative change in its relative position. From where we have been on the average for forty years, we are champions of price increases in electricity. You were telling us about a transient phenomenon, so you wouldn't take any steps and hide the problem under the carpet. But, just yesterday, the European Commission's estimates were published, according to which standard gas prices are not likely to return to the earliest level in the next two to three years, while with regard to gas prices, a further increase in the next few months is expected. The electricity prices will also move. That is probably what you meant as a temporary phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy! Should the Minister of Development also make fewer statements, make less selfie and act more and more timely? For as long as the government slept quietly and remained inert, dishonesty calls and hurts even today households and businesses. However, did we not strike as a Civic Anti-Civilization in due course? We did it. And what was the answer of the then Minister of Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, in December 2020? It was a monumental answer: "There is not a single one in the trillion case to increase electricity bills", and another statement was preceded in September 2019, when you celebrated your saving PPC, saying that we are doing the reform in PPC and we will pay cheaper electricity. Such a failure to predict, such a passive attitude to problems and a lack of preparation, not even when Mr Mitsotakis spoke about the last mile of the pandemic, or when the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, predicted that there would be a divergence in the wave of appreciation after December 2021. And just yesterday, 19 January 2022, we read, in the pro-government press, the following: 'New appreciations of basic foodstuffs set fire on the shelves of supermarkets'. According to ELSTAT's official figures, there is an increase in the general consumer index in December 2021 by 5.1% compared to December 2020, an increase of 4.3% in food and non-alcoholic beverages, an increase of 3% in clothing and footwear, an increase of 18% in housing, including critical indicators such as rent and an increase of 10.9% in transport, including fuel. The President of INCA, Mr Lehuritis, describes the situation very clearly. Since the first working day of 2022, on Monday, January 3rd, the first new increases appeared. One day it was an increase of 10 minutes in the package of half-pound macaroni, the next 10 minutes in half-pound beans, 5 minutes in half-pound rice, in dairy, in cleanliness. In fact, INKA predicts that the average growth rate between 2020 and 2021 was 30%, while the forecasts for 2022 are an additional increase of 30%-40%, increases of 30%-40% annually at the expense of a society that you are squeezing in the face of a minimum wage increase of just 2%. This is a society and a world of work against which you also had in the period 2012-2014 with wage cuts, with pension cuts and with the shameful creation of the underpaid wage until the SYRIZA Government abolished this invention, thus increasing the minimum wage for young people by 27% and the rest of the workers by 11%. In the Memorandum of 2012-2014, it is still continuing today by abandoning the great majority of the citizens of slavery to the pressures of the large groups. Another indicative example is the PCR tests, for which SYRIZA has been the first time, two years ago, had proposed their prescribing, in European practice. Unless the Minister disagrees, as the Prime Minister did, that there is a free prescribing of molecular tests in the majority of European countries, from Italy and Poland to Portugal and Albania. Or do you insist that the Greek economy will be threatened again with memoirs if we proceed to free prescribing? In this way, you will admit that the twenty-fifth countries of the European Union will not be threatened, so that we have the most vulnerable economy from all countries. For these, unfortunately, we have heard from the past few days. You put EUR 47 in the PCR price and you are proud to be the second lowest in Europe when in most states it is free of prescribing. But that's why you're not saying anything. That is why we ask you to close your eye on large groups of health and take measures to protect public health against the pockets of citizens. The Mayor of Naples-Sykeon, Mr. Danielides, told you. All the auctioned microbiological laboratories offered a PCR test at low prices. The maximum of EUR 2-3 is more expensive than the EUR 27 and 29 offered by the laboratory selected. Likewise, a year ago, the mayor himself succeeded by tendering for EUR 40, that is, when they were carried out and cost EUR 120, 130, and even EUR 140. Similarly, Mr Russos, the Mayor of Hallander, who, having achieved a price of EUR 25, pointed out to you that there are strong stubbornness and that this crisis should not be used so that people can get rich. With whom does a municipality manage to operate for the benefit of its citizens, while a government is not able to do so? Are they doing better simply because they have the political will, which you do not have? And not to mention the theory of wholesale and retail price again, because you could have gone well too in central tenders at central level or at the level of health regions for the corresponding mass supply of a PCR test. But you have chosen not to do so by allowing unfair practices, even in a sensitive and critical sector, such as public health, and even at times of pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not removed from the treatment of the Competition Committee by the current government, which includes the removal of the unpunished immediately after the takeover of the country's governance by New Democracy as if this were your priority in the summer of 2019, but also the decommissioning of the Competition Committee at the level of qualified staff. As your appointed chairman of the Authority, Mr Lianos, has said, over the last two years, the committee has lost 10% of its members due to distractions, which constitutes a violation of all concepts of independence of the Competition Committee, although your sensitivity to the independent authorities has also been seen through the 'gumbarians', Mr Georgiadis, EASA and Mr Mitsotakis in the UAAP. Of course, Mr Georgiadis has tried to give an answer to this particular question, he has covered himself, but he has clearly left the Prime Minister present. In principle, we consider this draft law to be a bad incorporation of a European directive into national legislation and at least one year's delay, as the relevant deadline has passed in February 2019. We stress the poor integration, as it is the legalisation of the method you conducted in 2019, with the removal of the then head of the Competition Committee, devising incompatibility, after their appointment and, of course, before the end of their legal term. And you are coming today to completely omit the provision of Article 4(3) and (4) of the directive that we will incorporate, which ensures the independence of national competition authorities and expressly states that the conditions for cessation and appointment must be laid down in advance in national legislation. In this way, through Article 9 of this Regulation, you legalise your 2019 methods and the retroactive application of a law provision, and even though the European Union Court of Justice, through its established case-law, has ruled on the obligation to respect the completion of the mandate of the independent authorities on the part of the Member States. The same unacceptable logic applies to Article 17, which provides for in paragraph 16 reasons of early cessation, which are not sufficiently certain or measurable, so that they are to be subject to the subjective crisis of the Competition Committee. However, European Directive 2019/1 in Article 4 itself provides for the establishment of operational independence guarantees for the staff of the independent authorities. Furthermore, through Article 12, it is attempting to remove from the Regulatory Authority the power to comply with Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the field of rail transport. In fact, you are introducing this provision at a time when the PPA is in a process of monitoring the implementation of the commitments made by the railway undertaking. They put reasonable questions: What changed in relation to October 20, 2020, when you assured by official letters at the Ministry of Development and Transport, as well as the Vice-President of the Government, that the PPA applies not only national but also Union competition law in the exercise of its powers to impose sanctions in the event of breach of the competition rules and we are therefore in favour of joining European competition law. Why, Minister, do you choose to undermine the work of the RAS? What interests do you serve with this provision? For the above reasons, which substantiate the misincorporation of European Directive 2019/1, the SYRIZA – Progressive Alliance is voting on the principle of "residents", stressing that our objections do not concern the central philosophy of the Directive, but the additions and, respectively, the omissions that the Government has drunken by way of derogation from the original European text forecasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u7	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Panas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the day of the Ministry of Development and Investment bill on modernising competition law for the digital age. The draft law also amends Law No. 3959/2011 and incorporates Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the provision of competence to the competition authorities of the Member States to more effectively enforce the rules to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. The incorporation of European law into national law is a very important area of action, in which our country has remained far behind, as we have seen the severe delay in recent years in implementing the relevant procedures to incorporate any directives designed to harmonise Greek law with the law of the European Union. This directive, for example, like others in the past, comes to a vote with a one-year delay and we do not know why. Is there any difficulty in communicating and moving the work between all the relevant government bodies? If this is the issue and in order to facilitate the whole process, here we are to propose and discuss solutions and proposals for improving the national coordination system, as well as proposals for monitoring European policy, which may lead to improved performance of our country in compliance with Union law, while at the same time investigating the possibility of simplifying and speeding up the procedures involved, which will reduce administrative burdens and re-orientate established practices. In any event, this draft law should have been incorporated on time as it contains rules delimiting the completion of the internal market in the light of the development of the dynamics of European economic integration, while also laying down rules governing or affecting trade between undertakings, in accordance with the principles of competition law in the modern digital age. Our country has not been protected in time by strong competition and this is also one of the reasons why we have been driven to days of accuracy. Although the European directive and an attempt to integrate can also be regarded as positive, it remains incomplete. It could, as I have pointed out at a previous meeting, take the opportunity and incorporate a well-established case-law of the Union Courts on the rights of the investigated undertakings in order to avoid so-called ‘fishing controls’. Indeed, such failure is becoming more pronounced than that the directive itself expressly refers to this issue, since national administrative competition authorities should be able to carry out all necessary checks at the premises of undertakings and associations of undertakings, provided that, in the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, they can show reasonable grounds for violating Article 101 or 102 TFEU. Likewise, this legislation could take a step further to the Competition Committee by extending its capacity, in line with the European Commission's ability, to grant instalments to the payment of fines, in proportion to what is known as the so-called ‘inability to pay’. Clearly, Minister, we have been positive from the outset in the late incorporation of the directive of the European Parliament, as we have been sick and now and in the times of the modern political history of the work of the Committee on Competition and have always stressed that every government should, through procedures such as voting on the necessary provisions, ensure for the Competition Committee a armoured institutional environment, in accordance with rules under European law, which will primarily facilitate the work of the Committee and to which all the companies involved in the business should comply without windows for exceptions. But you have also tabled a number of amendments which are irrelevant to the draft bill, which we are discussing, and amendments to articles which raise questions. And I am talking about Article 2 of the fourth amendment, entitled 'Regions of jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior'. Why do you continue to deceive members of the government as government? In particular, we read that this article gives the SPS Commander the freedom to place any one who wants heads without following the procedures provided for in the Staff Code. We know clearly that there was room for anyone who wanted to place them until May 2021, but that is on the condition that these crises would normally take place and that they were never, now why are you prolonging them, giving them room for another eighteen months? I shall continue to dwell on Amendment 1194/109, on matters relating to the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where we understand the following paradox: Article 1, provisions on minimum wages. You mean the increase in the minimum wage should already have occurred. That's what we've said. After all, we have been calling it out since 2020, with a specific amendment that we made in January. However, we stress that the process of setting basic wages and wages must come to the social partners who, through the negotiations, sign the National Collective Labour Convention, as laid down in Article 8 of Law 1876/1990. In addition, our position remains that the provision of Law 4093/2012, which provides that the scope of the National General Association of Labour Convention is limited to non-wage terms, should be abolished, as should paragraph 2 of Law 4254/2014, in order to provide for pre-service increases in the final determination of wage and salary based on the three-year period. Here, in Article 2 of the same amendment, on the facilities of the private parents, because of the illness of the children of CIVID-19 and the replacement of Article 16 of Law 4722/2020, you are asking this very difficult time for the House to cancel the previous provision of Article 16 of Law 4722/2020, where a parent who was staying home to care for his child receives full pay, two thirds of the employer and one third of the ordinary budget. And you now want to get half the pay for the first four days, with the fifth day of absence in need of leave of any form and without providing for parental insurance cover for the first four days of absence. That's incredible. Impressively, it gives the following phrase to this article: 'A decision of the Minister of Labour defines every necessary detail'. And I ask: is the worker's insurance cover a detail? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I close my speech, recalling the importance of harmonising European law in national law, and in particular on such serious and urgent issues, such as fair competition for the digital age, which will more effectively impose the rules on ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and, in particular, on such directives, we are positive, as they protect the consumer, which at the moment needs to be protected against the launching of energy costs and continuous revaluations of essential products and goods. But at the same time that you are legislating in the right direction, you have decided to reduce the earnings of working parents by 50%, when due to COVID they remain out of work. This senseless legacy leads to particularly and no contributory conclusions. If, in fact, we also take account of the almost one year's delay in incorporating this directive into our national law, it can say that it suffers a disgrace or not of knowledge from the European institutions, which you are necessarily incorporating when the knot arrives in the comb. So, as a Movement of Change, we say "yes" to the harmonisation of Greek law with European law, with the centre and axis of man and his benefit. We say 'no', however, in the shrinking of state support for citizens, especially at this difficult time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 21st January 2022. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 321/17-1-2022 of the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Application of 317/20 Decision of the Court of Auditors on the equalisation of age limits between men and women with minors until 31/12/2010.' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 316/17-1-2022 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "Protecting the Rights of Workers in Petroleum Kavala. Cancellation of dismissals and termination of proceedings and disciplinary proceedings.' B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 317/17-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The devaluation of the sports facilities of the National Youth Sports Centre (ESAKN) of Agios Kosmas". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 742/29/29-10-2021 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios (Takis) Haritou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Serious consequences for the local society from unjust delay in the integration of mature works by the Municipality of Komotinis into the "Antonis Tritsis" programme under the responsibility of the Government." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 231/11-10-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To correct now the unacceptable provision that earthquake owners of many buildings are entitled to state aid, only for one (1)". 3. The question by No 1632/12-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingaros Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for all seasonally workers in duty-free shops". The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntakakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have not-you have found again how to make another 'gift' in the labour market of the messengers resulting from pandemic conditions, with this shameful amendment that you have tabled. That's misery, it's brutality. After you lowered the quarantine days to five out of ten, now you're getting it even further. You impose teleworking even for CIVID patients, even presenting it as their right to work, as well as a reduction in wages of up to 50% in the lame special leave of parents who are ill. You must now withdraw this shameful amendment! At a time when the people die in radzas and the revaluations are literally squeezing their income, you bring scandalous arrangements at the direction of BSE and you are fueling through development laws and the Recovery Fund with thick billions of a handful of large businesses with provocative facilities and privileges. And all this because? Because you must protect the sanctuary and loyals of capitalism, the competitiveness, the unavoidable profitability of capital, these key components that govern the capitalist economy. I will not go into the amendments below. Christos Katsotis will say a lot about these issues. These are, however, dealt with in the draft law. The principles of free competition, the competitiveness of companies, which always face the detriment of workers, are being examined. That is why we are voting against the draft law. These "residences", the reservations, the "soux-mux" formulated by SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the other parties, etc., do not concern the substance of the provisions. Everyone moves in the same constellation. The policy of the so-called 'free market', the oaths of faith and commitment to the principles of competition are ironic laws of capitalism, in which the wealth produced by the working class is taken into account and which lead to new sufferings. It is conscious of the fact that this freedom of secondment of ever greater profits is the one that sparks the accuracy of fuels, of broad consumption, of milk, of bread, of oil, of all kinds of food and of everyday need. The story of sustainable or fair development - depending on who says it, New Democracy, SYRIZA - propaganda about a single business world, smuggling groups and self-employed together, other theories about healthy competition policies are only a myth that all governments are consciously cultivating to cover up their coexistence in capitalist development, which, in addition, gives birth to and favours the great waves of rises in wide-people consumption. The healthy competition you are telling us that it contributes to increasing productivity is nothing but a raw extortion towards workers, making them a well-known dilemma, or increasing productivity, or losing, or unemployment, or a reduction in wages. In reality you mean an increase in labour productivity, i.e. an increase in the degree of exploitation of the working class. This leads to an increase in the profitability of the monopolistic groups. There can be no capitalist system without competition. That's why he's always unhealthy. The big fish will eat your little, your death my life. No healthy competition, no price observatory, no consumer movement can deal with the problem of accuracy and stop the immunity of capital. You arrive at the point where you blame the consumers themselves because they do not do the right market research as if they had no work - with all the suffering they have on their back - to run from supermarkets to supermarkets, from folk to folk to look for what are the best prices in cucumbers, tomatoes and radiators, or to do around squares for consumers to get - says - cheap fuels. You're provocative. You make fun of the world and you must stop this, you must be stopped by the people themselves. Our people have a bitter experience of the liberalisation of the energy, rail, transport, ports, telecommunications, postal services, health and medicine. PPC entered competitiveness, but the people continue to cool. OTE also entered competitiveness, but our country along with Portugal has the most expensive tariffs in the European Union. You, when you talk about rules on the market, mean rules among the groups, about how they share the pie in each industry. However, the rules do not concern the life and rights of workers. On the contrary, they are stepping up the exploitation of the working class and as employees and as buyers. They are literally crushing poor farms, self-employed, small free professionals who are unable to meet the production conditions imposed by monopolies themselves. Already workers count two lost wages a year, over 1,800 euros from the price bar, with the situation getting worse all the time. And it has the courage of the Prime Minister to give false promises of a significant increase in the minimum wage from the Mayoy, refusing to even bother to commit itself to its level. Unless it's in the 50 minutes you don't get a single strawberry bread. After all, the Brutsi - Ahtsioglou law and all this anti-corruption framework that your parties together have made makes a blank letter even the fierce increase in this minimum wage, since employers have both the knife and the melon by abolishing collective labour contracts, the appalling extension of flexibility and the imposition of individual contracts, partial and rotating employment and the introduction of the unpaid dime and the increase in overtime hours that have been made at the same time and cheaper on the basis of this lousy Hatzidakis law. And while our people live in tsunami in the realm of growth, the government nor talk about the abolition of VAT on energy, of broad-popular consumption, of excise duties on fuel, of increases in wages and pensions, of the reintroduction of the national general collective labour agreement, of stable work. Even now, in conditions of pandemic and grim economic suffocation of the people, neither thought of decommissioning debts, reducing taxation on self-employed persons, restoring tax on income, protecting agricultural income with a real reduction in production costs at minimum guaranteed prices, in order to compensate 100% of the damage caused by floods, earthquakes, fires. Neither now nor the second presence will the government meet these legitimate demands of workers, just so that the financial margins it has to support business groups are not affected. That is what the Prime Minister told us in his interview a few days ago that our first priority right now is not to have derailment phenomena of our budgetary policy since January. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC has often expressed its opinion on competition issues and on the role of the Competition Committee. Does anyone really think that the Competition Committee is an independent authority? Of course not. You're not invoking it either. It is surrounded by the halo of the independent authority, in fact moving strictly from the ironic laws of capitalism and the guidelines laid down by the institutional framework of the respective government and the European Union. The European directive under discussion is to strengthen the role and functioning of competition committees in all the Member States of the European Union. However, those authorities will never be independent of any investigations into undertakings, any investigational tasks that the law gives them, any measures and fines are imposed on undertakings that violate free competition laws. Monopoly companies are not shaded by the so-called 'antitrust legislation'. On the contrary, it always works for their benefit. It is simply a good wrapping-up of their monopolistic sovereignty, which, of course, leads to an acquittal swim. We did not see, for example, the Competition Authority has ever reacted when AEGEAN purchased with five-tenths the "OLYMPIAKI" which brought it to the hammer state, your own governments, to become dominant in the Greek market, nor in other cases, such as acquisitions of banks for the creation of the few systemic banks, as in all the Member States of the European Union. We did not see anything about the privatisations in ports, airports, everywhere, pandemic, vaccine, the tests, the personal protection instruments that are up-to-date. What did the pandemic show? It has demonstrated that the design and development of health services and structures, prevention and early diagnosis, treatment, free tests and personal protective equipment, epidemiological vigilance and protection of public health are incompatible with the laws of profit, competition and the free market. The private sector was and is a foreign body. Vaccines, the patent is exploited by the pharmaceutical industry as a gold medal, which is why vaccinations are being delayed, and that is why we have one mutation after another, which is why the deadly course of the pandemic continues. Let us tell us when, where and who put a stop to the heavy flagship competitions of the pharmaceutical industries that won trillions of dollars from their action at the expense of the people. The amendment tabled by the government to this draft law on mandatory vaccination is the follow-up to the law on mandatoryity, which threw six thousand sanitaries out of the hospitals. What does the government confirm with this measure? It confirms that the vaccination that the people need comes under individual responsibility, without taking any steps at all to deal with adequate fears and doubts. The government is accountable to the people for this criminal policy. This is why the JRC is thoroughly insisting on measures to protect the pandemic, for free testing, for personal protection measures, in particular the support of the public health system, and while the request for the abolition of every patent in vaccines and medicines directly linked to parasitic and dangerous capitalist property is made even more topical. Does the so-called Privacy Assurance Authority, independent of it, also protect the people from freckles, electronic surveillance and intercepting? Did the Anti-Criminal Income Fighting Authority beat corruption, money laundering, tax evasion, the financial crimes of "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS" and goes by saying? Of course not. What is the role of the RAE Regulatory Authority? In order to protect poor people from pillaging their income from energy groups for huge increases in electricity prices, to an unprecedented level, energy poverty? Of course not! Its existence is interwoven with the service of traded liberated energy. So all these pragmatic independent authorities are part of state administration, they are pillars of the capitalist economy and the cherries in the cake in the anti-Finland government policy. That is why, in this draft law, the Competition Committee is being given simpler powers. Indeed, in a particularly worrying way, another mechanism is being formed against small businesses, and it is reasonable since the European Union itself and the governments consider them to be a structural problem in the economy. It may also intervene in the courts, hold secret meetings and its members to enjoy the impunity for each of them. It will have the possibility of imposing protective measures on its own when the sacrosancts and essences of competition are sanctified. It provides a programme of confiscation and informants for those who violate competition law, beating the bell for small businessmen, while everyone is forced to give information and become extortion bodies. The officials of the Competition Committee will be able to exercise the powers of a tax auditor, to conduct investigations, to take an administrative oath, to intervene in personal data, to restrict rights and obligations of the persecutor, ignoring or limiting even the Rules of Procedure of the European Union, for which you drink water in its name. Ladies and gentlemen, the peoples of Europe and our people, the peoples of the whole world, have nothing to gain from unrelenting competition and they must develop their own course, without being caught up in their capitalist competitions that all governments serve, whether they are neoliberal or social democrats. The JRC does not cultivate delusion in the world that the situation can be changed radically through certain regulations in the current circumstances. But the struggle today for self-evident, for work, bread, home, rest, health and education, is the one that marks the conquests of the future for a fairer society, socialism and communism. There alone there the basic and basic needs of our people can be met. Besides, it is admitted by government officials that we do not live in communism to meet the needs of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Coward, take a look at the clock!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President, quickly. The people must overcome them, put them out and create conditions through their struggle to improve their position today and be able to live better. It is only workers' control that can produce results on the basis of a central democratic planning of the economy, based on popular needs and interests, not on monopolistic groups that will not exist. It presupposes working people's power, socialisation of basic means of production. That's why the JRC is fighting for. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u13	Please take care of the Step. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u14	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the draft law on the Competition Committee, Chapter I and Articles 1 to 3 deal with the purpose, subject matter and definitions, and Chapter B and Articles 4 to 7 on the control of mergers of undertakings which the Government has, of course, agreed to impose on small and medium-sized enterprises, but it will probably not succeed. The most likely is to increase market enclosures due to our accuracy and energy dependence due to violent degreasement. Chapter III and Articles 8 to 35 concern the way the Competition Committee operates, the institutions and responsibilities, cooperation between national authorities, assistance and the settlement of disputes. Chapter IV and Articles 36 to 46 relate to the procedures of the Competition Committee on Complaints and the way in which they are investigated, whereas Chapter V and Articles 47 to 48 and Chapter F concern the procedure for the enforcement of sanctions by the Competition Committee and the fines. Generally speaking, however, there is no benefit on the market from the functioning of the Competition Committee, since on the basis of the 2020 report the cumulatively estimated consumer surplus from the decisions of the Competition Committee, between 2002 and 2020, is estimated at EUR 2,63 billion over all these years, but it was only EUR 19.9 million in 2020. We have asked whether there are, in fact, some objectives, but without answering them. Everything's working on the market right? Are there no cartel behaviors, such as constructions, supermarkets or banks? Is the Competition Committee really independent, or is it from and behaved by the Minister of Development? On some articles now. In the second we could agree on conditions with the greater independence of the Competition Committee. We doubt, however, that it will be possible to do so, since at the end of the day all the important powers are indirectly conferred on the Minister for Development. On the other hand, it seems to us to be problematic that it will impose fines and launch arrangements without taking into account the economic and political dimension, which the independent services of technocrats usually do not know. Article 4 excludes companies with less than 50 million and two hundred and fifty employees from the checks carried out by the Competition Committee, namely the majority of companies in Greece. It is not possible, therefore, to promote the proper functioning of competition when it is responsible for the few major companies that are the Competition Committee and for the many small companies in the Ministry. However, when PCR showed that the Ministry is not in a position to ensure the functioning of competition as compared, for example, with Cyprus. We have further noted that there can be a synergy between businesses and the influence of regulations, as in the well-known case of Diesel Gate, where the European Union has intervened in this regard because German automobile industries have, in consultation with each other, put regulations on accessories so as to limit competition. This is a clever but, of course, dirty way, adding, for example, that the Germans could claim that cars or photovoltaics from other countries do not fulfil European affairs, which are, however, put on the basis of the German industries to avoid competition. Therefore, combined knowledge of the Competition Committee and the public may be required, in cooperation with higher education institutions and research centres internal and external to have real results, as well as continued vigilance on both economic and technical issues. In Article 5 we stressed that although quantitative limits such as the 15 million tors seem reasonable, the small size of the Greek market is not taken into account. For example, in a specialised sector of a small society there may be conditions of 100% control of its market without exceeding the EUR 15 million threshold, and this could have a multiplier effect if this market produces a raw material for the production chain. In addition, no consideration has been given to any tricks to avoid the threshold, such as through groups with related companies and offshore, in order to reduce the overall footprint of the cigarette, possibly through triangular transactions, so that Greece can see a small amount of hypothetical mediation or supply. In our view, the most rational criterion for oligopoly not to be created - the real great disease of capitalism - is the market share, as well as the prudential control by the Competition Committee by mapping the market which is very well established here as its activity. We're talking about the right thing to say the wrong thing. As regards Article 6, it may sound reasonable but, not knowing how it will be implemented, we are sceptical, especially because monopolistic mergers have been approved in Greece, such as 'AEGEAN' with 'OLYMPIAKI', which was unfortunately adopted at European level and controlled by the new independent authority established by the New Democracy, by the APA. Another example is the 'TRAINOSE', which is an Italian state monopoly with the SSTY, while it is controlled by another independent authority, by the RA. Real chaos with the ever-independent principles that in fact cover politicians and indirectly businesses. As also with NGOs serving other purposes, both in Greece and internationally. Both are attributes to the new order of things that are being launched by corporate feudalism that in fact governs. In order to initiate such mergers, however, creative methods may be used. For example, it should be considered that air transport is part of transport in general, so in theory there is no monopoly, since it can be moved by train or by boat. Article 9, with the changes referred to in paragraph 1, gives some independence to the members of the committee. For example, they do not cease for reasons relating to the exercise of their duties, but this may lead to immunity if there are no disciplinary margins which are withdrawn, as shown by Article 11. In paragraph 2, the choice of members shall be made by the Minister for Development, while the procedure for the award of tenders shall also be by decision of the Minister for Development. In addition to that in paragraph 3, the members shall be chosen by an independent five-member selection committee. The Minister for Development shall designate at least the two members of the PDP, while in second phase the Minister for Development shall select from the list the candidates to fill the vacancy. Everywhere the Minister is! Finally, under paragraph 14, the remuneration of the members of the Committee on Competition is determined by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Development and Finance, which means that it is obviously not possible to agree with all these responsibilities granted to the Minister by indirectly making an independent Competition Committee. In Article 10 we did not agree that the disciplinary board is set up by a decision of the Minister of Development, as well as the act of implementation of the decision, and it is established here that the Minister is involved everywhere, so the committee is not at all independent. In continuing with Article 12, it is noted in paragraph 1 that telecommunications is excluded. It's extremely important. There's a big problem here. We have far the highest prices in the European Union. In particular, the National Telecommunications and Post Committee was transferred to the Competition Committee with Article 4 at the beginning of the consultation. Finally, the article was withdrawn, obviously because of reactions, which we consider to be unacceptable, since it is not possible for the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts to regulate the market itself and decide on competition. However, when it has a deficit of 56.9 million on the basis of the 2022 budget, as we will be tabling for the Minutes. In simple terms, the regulator, the National Telecommunications and Post Commission, can also be a controller, two in one. That makes sense not to reduce prices but to reduce the price of some crustaceans at the telecommunications charges for young people between 15 and twenty-nine years ago, but to charge the budget, so all of us taxpayers, with EUR 68 million, as well as we will be tabling for the Minutes. The mockery of the Greeks is unbelievable here. Only for this reason could anyone ever vote for the bill, while the OTE investment, recently celebrated by the Prime Minister, is likely to be imports of equipment from ‘SIEMENS’. In Article 14 we have asked what is the reason why the Competition Committee wants to buy real estate, since it reasonably reaches the two buildings it already employs. In the absence of a similar provision of ownership to other independent authorities, we have asked why there is no housing available to them from public property, without, of course, getting an answer. On the basis of the 2020 Report and its revenue and expenditure presented in the minutes to the Committee, it had a surplus and paid a dividend to the State budget of EUR 1.860,603. In the 2021 budget, however, it had revenues of 6.62 million and costs of 7.52 million, so almost 1 million deficit. And given that she wants to increase her staff from seventy-three people, as her chairman - eighty-seven on the basis of the 2020 report - to two hundred or two hundred or fifty people, obviously her losses will be higher, burdening the budget, which we of course do not think is right. Article 15 expressly lays down the provision of impunity, but without discrimination in cases of trespass, which we also consider to be unacceptable. In Article 30, in simple terms, the Competition Committee will decide who will be acquitted of an infringement, regardless of whether it is serious or not, because it considers it to be the case. Is it possible to vote for such an article? Does it not remind the PSE that it decides and commands independently from justice? Article 31, as a complement to the former, provides for the conditions for the leniency of such legal or natural persons, that is to say, one: to be fully and diligently co-operating with the Committee. It is positive, of course, but it is obviously not enough and it makes suspicions. Continuingly, the Competition Committee with the powers conferred on it by Article 42 may have access to all the records and data of the undertaking controlled. This is very extensive information and it is dangerous for sensitive personal data to be included in it, and, in our view, it is not right to give a prosecutor's authority to the committee. If that's possible! Article 51 confers powers on the Competition Committee to attest fines as public revenue but does not result from the provision of any statutory control of the correctness of the award of the fines. Finally, Article 52 exempts the already serving members of the Competition Committee from the obligation to submit the statement of property to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay annually, which is obviously not correct, if not a suspect. In conclusion, this is a meaningless bill which does not help at all resolve the real problems of our country, the main of which is the production of wealth, not damage, deficits and debts, which substantiate that the government is not only ineffective but, worse still, it is truly dangerous. We have, however, made proposals for the production of wealth both for industry and for the primary sector. We propose, as a Greek Solution, in addition to existing activities, which are under hypnosis, such as our shipyards and our defence industry, electricity generation and the new electricity industry around LARCO's nickel, which the government wants to sell at risk of exporting nickel raw. We note that we do not care for us to be state but simply to produce. We have submitted to the minutes a study of 'McKinsey', which proposes exactly what we have in our programme for a long time now. An ecosystem around the production of batteries. We have specifically proposed for the primary sector, not only for the sake of food adequacy, which is important because of the current problems of supply chain and inflation, but also for combining it with technology through high-tech rural applications, as Israel does. Let us note that in 2008 Israel had GDP of about $215 billion and we $356 billion. Today we only have 189 billion dollars and Israel 400 billion dollars, more than twice as much today as us when we were over it. Isn't that a shame for all of us? In addition, tourism can and must be linked to the primary sector, as well as to our domestic production in order to support it, since it makes no sense to lead most of the tourism revenues to imports of foreign products. We will not extend here to the other proposals that are in our five hundred-page programme, since there is no time. I would point out, however, once again that Greece must finally produce wealth so that it can have sustainable growth. With the constant filing of bills it will never produce wealth, let alone with Community directives, such as today, which we will naturally vote against. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u15	The floor will now be taken by Webex the special speaker from Mera25, Mr. Logiadis Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as the only party that we are politically active at the same time at three levels, I would like to begin my position with the first level, the world level as co-founders of the World Progression, the Progressive International. The two economists, who in 2019 received the Nobel Prize for Economics in their research, say: "We live in a world with an extreme concentration of economic power in the hands of a very small minority of super-plus. The crisis in COVID-19 has exacerbated the disparities between the very rich and the rest of the population. The inequality of wealth has increased in most countries since the 1980s, which coincides with a period of government deregulation. It is also stressed that wealth inequality has a strong correlation with carbon dioxide emissions and climate change objectives.’ And they continue: "Great emissions inequalities imply that climate policies should target rich polluters more. To date, climate policies, such as carbon taxes, have often been disproportionately influenced by low and middle-income groups, while leaving the consumer habits of the richest groups unchanged. That is exactly what we will point out in our speech that accuracy is a class problem first. At a pan-European level as founders of the DiEM25, the Democracy Movement in Europe, we have stressed that the elected governments of the Member States, but the lobbys of Brussels, the multinationals and the Holocausts, do not do. We know that more than thirty thousand lobbies meet uncontrolledly with members of the European Parliament and other officials behind closed doors, with the aim of affecting decision-making and former Commissioners being hired by private legal offices in matters of commercial law. Since 2011, the Commission and the European Parliament have created the Transparency Register as a response to the concerns, questions and fears of citizens regarding the independence of the institutions of the European Union. It's an electronic public database with about 12 thousand lobbying organisations. But the weakness in this register lies precisely in its non-binding nature among the institutions of the European Union. Without the mandatory lobbying register in the European Union, they have uncontrolled access and affect decision-makers. Let us point out here, here, that the very same nature of non-bindingness also has Articles 36 to 46 in the current draft law. If healthy competition operates in an economy, it will help reduce inequalities within society. But we know that, in both Greece and the European Union, as it has evolved today, disparities are constantly widening. The European Commission and then we incorporate such directives into Greek law, such as today's, we do not solve the problem of healthy competition in the base, but we disorientate public opinion and throw ashes into the eyes of the world by saying that we are taking measures, for example, with the proper functioning of the Competition Committee, by strengthening it, increasing the number of appointed officials and external partners from the private sector, a position against which both the Chairman of the Federation of Independent Authorities and the Chairman of the Association of Competition Workers of the Competition Committee, who have emphasised that if the Competition Committee wants to recruit people, the proceedings should be followed through the PSC. The memorials, by which the three governments - PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA - have committed the country to achieving unscrupulous primary surpluses, have brought very high tax rates, direct and indirect, which are one of the highest in Europe despite the economic crisis that is plagued us. This brings about tax evasion, paranoid economy, corruption. In fact, according to data from the International Transparency Report, Greece is Europe's second most corrupt country. This creates unfair competition between businesses and workers by destroying healthy businesses and workers, destroying healthy competition and the economy. 96% of enterprises are small and very small, which are facets over time with unfair competition practices, whether they relate to counterfeiting or to the oligopolistic structure of individual markets GSE. In relation to how far consumers are protected instead of other proof, it would be enough for the bitter truth of the majority of the people who saw their incomes and purchasing power to be demolished in the Memorandum years and the shamefulness of the supermarket cartel from the very first moment when pandemic was invented and let the official figures of ELSTAT independent and also the recent depreciation, the eruption, the indirect privatisation of the people's markets appear to be negative. But today, the glance of accuracy is affecting households, it is not resisting either the Government or the Independent Competition Committee. And all this at a time when, based on the consumer Institute's estimates, the average increases in basic foods reach 20% to 30%. And natural gas and electricity have literally ejected. Precision is a purely class phenomenon paid by the retired, the employed, the small and medium-sized. The four proposals of Mera25 to deal with accuracy are: Maximum VAT rate at 24% from 15%. Automatic indexation at minimum wages and allowances using not official inflation, but price index for small and medium-sized households, excluding income ceilings of 30% of the population. Cancel all electricity price increases with the abolition of the Energy Exchange, socialisation of the former PPC, cancellation of the sale of the PPC and gradual renationalisation of PPC. Enforcement of fines by the Supermarkets Commission for the timely opening of the supermarket prices and the prices of their suppliers. The price of electricity has increased much more than its cost of production, resulting from an increase in the cost of gas. This is the result of the establishment of the Energy Exchange initiated by SYRIZA and you are the current government. You're talking about - how to say it - PPC. Since the "D" meaning "public" no longer exists, it does not exist. Now, by the Prime Minister's mouth, the aim is to maximise the price of the share of this private power company now. It is very informative and I would suggest that you read the book of Moses Rafael "It will become of... Dess", a full-time anatomy by a specialist who has served this sector for decades, starting from its establishment by Constantine Karamanlis. Furthermore, the rapidly growing digital economy has changed the way in which the market operates. 'Consumers, when visiting business technology platforms, collect valuable information, personal data from consumers. Then they literally bomb us with ads and offers, and based on our preferences, they gradually identify, direct and influence our final choices, and even remove the option," said the Legal Adviser of the Association of Quality of Life. And the chairman of the Committee on Competition said: "We are interested in following the United States' efforts to limit the power of monopolies and oligopolises and we hope in corresponding initiatives in Greece". It is therefore a question of political will which the government does not have. Because, as Mera25, we have proposed the taxation of the technological colleges 'Facebook', 'Google', 'Netflix', 'Spotify', in Greece, at 4% of their turnover, but a proposal that the government has not accepted. Last but not least, it is indicative of the government's submission to the oligarchic interests that after consultation it was removed from the original draft provision enabling the Competition Committee to intervene in the markets that are currently being supervised by all the independent authorities, such as telecommunications and gambling. I will close my position, with the Vice-President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce in our committee, who put it very politely, saying: 'Summarily, this legislative initiative does not seem to be trying significantly to solve the problems we face on the domestic market and reduce unfair practices between businesses'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. The President of the Greek Solution will now be given the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, and then there will be the three main colleagues, Mr. Bukokoros, Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Katsotis. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to start with the bill. Independent authorities. There are two words in the Greek language. Independently, when we know that the leaders of these authorities are placed by the government. You'll tell me, under the Constitution. The Constitution, of course, does. How independent is an authority when its president or its members are appointed by the New Democracy, SYRIZA or KINAL before? I imagine they're not independent at all. And I don't think we all know that. In Greece, some thirty-seven independent authorities are counted. Under the Constitution, we had to have five. So if we have thirty - seven independent authorities, why should we have a government with fifty - eight ministers? I'm asking. There's no need. Let them rule. Why pay them and the others? So since the Constitution is set out in five, we should have five. New provisions in this bill, Mr. Georgiadis, I imagine. It can go on - it says - the independent authority in awarding public contracts, buying, renting buildings for forty years, employing two hundred fifty workers, sharing thirty-sixty grand in fees that no one knows where to go and special recruitment and additional remuneration to employees who want them. Now, do you really think this is a bill? You will tell me that this is a European directive and so on. There are other European directives which are to the benefit of the Greek people, but you do not apply them. You are only applying distortions, only inconceivable, absurd, Minister. So here, for the fines, I have something to say to the Government, to the New Democracy, which does not know what a principle of proportionality means. Not that he didn't know. She doesn't care. It is not possible for an independent authority to impose fines without a criterion being laid down in the proportionality principle. The same is happening here in the Competition Committee. The same is true in the PSE, where you see SKAI paying a fine of EUR 15,000 and a channel, the "TV Upper Katomeri" of EUR 50,000! Where is the principle of proportionality in the Constitution? You do the same here. Same thing. I'm filing the list of independent authorities. Germany doesn't have that much. Greece has. You're unbelievable as government, really. I do not understand, Minister, when Germany has multiple populations than we do, how does it have fewer independent authorities than Greece? Tell me you and interpret me. How many more to be appointed by the New Democracy? How many more to make yourself comfortable? You've raised all posters in the past year. How many more neo-democratics, who will take votes and alter the election result, will you carry on the back of the Greek people? Because the New Democracy isn't paying. The New Democracy is unable to pay its loans, not the employees it hires. The Greek people will pay them the sucker. I would like the Minister to respect a party president or if he wishes to close his phone. Hear what we tell him. It is obviously a civil courtesy, Mr President. As far as the Rafahs are concerned. There was a whole Rafah story yesterday. I really do wonder about the nerve of the New Democracy. He insisted more than a year ago on the Prime Minister himself in his office, when he met the political leaders - he did it once and then he stopped - to take Rafah. However, this whole thing - because it was really a kit - of the operation with a party stamp on the planes, which the Greek people pay for from their misery, was an eyewitness and was made through a dominant party propaganda. The acquisition of the Rafalis paid by the Greek people - and we did well to take it, so that we can respond to the challenges of the Turks - cannot be the subject of party exploitation and you must be ashamed of the New Democracy that you did. It's a shame what the Prime Minister did! Of course, beyond that, I should like to say one more thing. Don't I go to have two hundred Rafahs, five hundred Rafahs, do I have the political will to take down the drones now in the Aegean? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] This is missing from the Greek army, the will of the Prime Minister or the Minister, to destroy the drones. Why? You're scared. You've always been fearful and continue to be fearful. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are going to the worst, in the economy, since the Competition Committee has a compatible relationship with the economy. Financial deficit of 10%. Commercial deficit + 30%. Insurance deficit in heights. Twin deficits. Public debt of 200%. Private record debt. All this and they take it they're doing well. In fact, I wonder - why is Mr. Georgiadis from the ministers he has worked on - has he understood these figures on the balance sheet of the Greek state, yes or no? Let's get back to us. Because if he really understands and insists that New Democracy is doing well, then he's probably one of the well-known stories of cubism, which we do as it suits us to. It's just stuff. The economic policy of this government leads Greece to mathematics, I will say it directly, in a new memorandum. The Memorandum, friends and friends, it's coming. And the memorandum is the result of bad choices. A memorial is not born on its own. The Memorandum is born because forty years these governments have not entered into its logic of producing wealth. That's what we've been talking about for a long time. Mr. Stavros comes out and clears Mr. Georgiadis. Not once. Five times, six times. He says Mr Georgiadis - and it is right - that we should do something with VAT. And Mr Stavros comes out and says "we must gather." If the ministers don't get together first, how will Greece be gathered second? On the other hand, of course, I would like to say to Mr Stavoura that you do not policy on loan. Oh, no. You do with production and change of production model. No one has said to the Greek people - and I regret to say so - that the money provided by the New Democracy, firstly, is not its own and, secondly, it is credit which the Greeks have to pay for. They are granted allowances - subsidised policy, pitiful policy, failed policy, incompetent policy - because they cannot produce wealth for the country and they are borrowed and give the citizen the EUR 500 and they are told to take it. That's how they fool the citizen. They're fooling him, and they're puffing his vote. Yes, but they don't tell him, '500 euros you'll pay back with interest', 'we'll get them back because they're borrowed. And so they fool the Greek people and think that with polls they can rule. Today we borrowed with 1.83%, while a year ago with 0.8%. If the QE cushion leaves, we're done, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Greece will not be able to borrow. We're done, understand! As long as the European Union keeps this story in balance, and if it takes us to budgetary discipline, we are done. And when I say "we're done", I really mean it, despite the other people who are cursing here in New Democracy, because their minds are in the next elections and not in the next generations that come. Their crime is that. With a small interest rate increase, we'll have chaos. And this increase will come very soon, because you have done nothing in the New Democracy for two and a half years and you have never heard what we have been telling you. To give an example, because I think that examples are the best response. 'I save at home' programme, 'Security': Are you really a serious government? So, is it important to buy a Greek fridge that's German? What are you telling him? "Go get a fridge with a "Security" subsidy, go get photovoltaics with "Security". Does Greece produce refrigerators or photovoltaics? You give him 100 euros and he'll give it back to Germany again. There's nothing left here. There's going to be a fridge that needs a change in ten years again. Are we working with such programmes to fuel Germany's industrial production and not to create a small industrial production? I'm not saying huge. Is it possible for the state to subsidise Germany's industry and rejoice? In fact, I wonder your logic, because this is how you increase the trade deficit. In other words, by giving the "Security" Greece is increasing its trade deficit. And you do not insist on reducing VAT on basic goods, because, as Minister Staikoras says, the budget will be derailed. But he's been derailed for years, guys. There is no budget, ladies and gentlemen, which has actually been submitted and implemented or has been clear. There's no budget. Nine out of ten eligible materials for "Security" are imported! Nine out of ten! Subsidies on household appliances? Ten out of ten imported. In other words, we come as a country, we borrow, we get money, subsidies from the European Union to feed the French war industry with the Rafahs, the German war industry with the submarines, the US with its aircraft, Germany's refrigerators, the German photovoltaics and wind turbines. We have become servants of Germany and abroad. That's not how the economy works. The only solution to do what we say, to resurrect the place, is the Greek solution proposal documented: to produce wealth. There's nothing else. I'm telling you in the most unequivocal way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You are, in fact, a government that leads Greece to a sacrificial shipwreck. The Prime Minister came out with Mr. Dendia and canceled natural gas by his statements and oil, when Greece has an energy problem, when Mr. Georgiadis himself told us that Christmas ended. The bad news, however, is that Mr. Georgiadis didn't tell us which Christmas. Maybe he meant 2023, 2024. He said so in a statement. The ministers say so. For pure oil and gas imports only Greece will pay EUR 8.5 billion this year! Why? Since I've got the gas. And if you can't, I have the lignite. Open the lignites to bring down the price of energy production not only at the home of the ordinary man but also at the industrialist and the ordinary shopkeeper, to the farmer and to the farmer. They must have cheap energy. It doesn't work that way. In 2020 we paid EUR 5.2 billion for oil. For 2022? Ten billion. Where are you going to get them? You're going to borrow again. You are the best borrower in Europe, but also the most insolvent one, because you cannot pay your debts either. We've been through this a thousand times, but I never expected, but never, Prime Minister of the country to lie so rawly. He came from Glasgow and didn't tell us what they discussed there. He insisted on wind turbines. In Glasgow, however, Commissioner for Energy the next day allowed many, because he came to the line of Greek Solution. What did the Energy Commissioner say? He said the gas is the bridge to go to the other forms of energy. What did the Commissioner for Energy of the European Union say? He said nuclear energy is an ecological energy. That's why the Greek Solution has proposed, insisted and is in front, very ahead of the developments! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But lies don't make politics. What bothers me most is that there's a conciliation method, a method of defeat by people we've been sympathized with in the past and told me about the Kingdom, that we're taking the City! For me, this legend is in the knights of the Greeks, in the DNA of the Greeks. We have in our minds - because I am from Asia Minor - our traditional ancestor, if you like, obligation, the "everything with years, with times, will still be ours" to have it within us as legend and tradition. Of course, cubism has become a championship in New Democracy. Today, therefore, a withdrawal is taking place in national matters. And he's being manipulated globally, I'm afraid. Firstly, the government is announcing in any case - I will prove it now - that it will not proceed to the exploitation of gas and oil. Treasury - Mitsotakis. Secondly, the non paper of the Americans is revealed, where the EastMed pipeline ends. Thirdly, Greek foreign policy has suffered enormous defeat in the region of Cyprus and Israel, not only by EastMed. Haftar visited Israel a few days ago and asked for a duplex pipeline: one from Israel to Turkey and one from North Africa. Fourthly, the companies ‘EXXON’ and ‘TOTAL’ leave Crete. Fifth, there is also the parrot of ELIAMEP, Mr. Ioakeimidis, the acquaintance of ELIAMEP - a friend of the Prime Minister, Dokos, is in ELIAMEP - and urges in an article, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy, this man honored by your President, the Prime Minister of the country with the presence of Doku, and says this: Greece cannot waste any money, since it cannot cope with Turkey. That's what Mr. Joaquemidis said. It is ELIAMEP's well-known trekking road, the now - I will say it directly - of a resurrected institution that exists in Greece and an institute. Finally, the Greek state should create a think tank that helps any government, not let ELIAMEP cultivate defeat. Sixth, the new President of KINAL, Mr Androullakis - well-known to have him - is the President of the new Helsinki. And he talked about Helsinki himself. SYRIZA talks about The Hague. You all say the same thing. You all want to lead Greece to The Hague, which we are discussing a lot of issues in The Hague. If we want to talk about our only difference, which is the continental shelf and the EEZ, there is the Hamburg Court. The Hague is the only way to defeat the three parties. Stop lying and half-truths. Seven, Turkey began to put water on its wine. Looks clear. But what did you do? We arrived in Greece that has gas of its own, which has oil, to become American slaves, to give them a huge base in Alexandroupolis - huge base! - because Trump and now Biden are philosophers against Greece. You all found Trump and you called him a philosopher. Biden what is it? Tell me about it. Have you ever realized that America was really a friend with Greece? Have you ever understood that? As many times as America's been telling us something, it never did. I could talk hours endless. But sacrificing the Americans EastMed on the altar of American LNG? Because that's what it's about. Because Europe must buy shale gas, which is more expensive than the United States. And who's in on it? Greek shipowners who have bought ships for a year to be able to feed with natural gas, shale, American Europe. Mr. Prokopiou, Mr. Marinakis. All shipowners have bought these ships. It's just luck, too! In other words, they knew beforehand that EastMed would never be made and would carry shale gas to Alexandroupolis, LNG. Who wins? Your friend Koplouzos, who is businessmen - businessmen are people - because SYRIZA allowed him - so that we do not forget - to set up a terminal at seven nautical miles, Mr Polakis. Why the seven nautical miles in Alexandroupolis across the street? Because it's a foreign company and it's not taxed, it's international waters. These are the truths that the Greek people must learn. Unfortunately, you're all in the same bag. You guys don't care. Not everyone. Some of you do a good job of opposition. However, the government of SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy were aware of the cancellation of EastMed. They've known it since 2015. Mr. Tsipras said so. They talked about it together. But that's not what anyone's saying. And I'm going to go on and say something very simple. Why do I have to be Russia's target today? You tell me now. Ukraine and the United States and NATO. Why would Greece aim to refuel the US transport forces in Alexandroupolis against Russia? Tell me what I'm winning, that's what I want to know. Don't tell me they're our American friends. I'm going to give you a number of arguments that degrade your account. So EastMed's theme is a dirty story, including the New Democracy - I say it - and SYRIZA in the past. I don't know if the MPs or her ministers knew - Mr. Katrugalos left - but the Prime Minister knew. When Obama came here, he said it indirectly. He talked about immigration and energy. Energy was EastMed, to see you all. So we come, friends and friends, and we say it straight away. We demand a radical reshaping. We demand the economic patriotism of wealth production for the whole of society. There won't be him unless the real solution comes to things, the Greek Solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As on the top of the economic pyramid is the state-owned parasitic nepotism of the logic of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, it will never be a solution to the Greek economy. I shall give you a simple example. One group came out and suggested the Silver Economy in Greece. What's that? Create standard settlements of pensioners from all over Europe in Greece for wealthy pensioners. Huge funds can come! William Russell did an investigation: "Greece in the sixth place so that a pensioner can live" - if he has his income, of course - "because it is the best country". That's what you take advantage of, that's what you do! I still hear about religious tourism, but we're fighting Russia. I hear about rural tourism, but we don't connect hotels with a primary sector. That's not how it works. We're not going anywhere! And because you're lying, I've been listening to a minister - not Mr. Georgiadis, so he doesn't think he's always the one for everything - to say that we can't reduce VAT. Poland zeroed VAT to first-hand goods yesterday! Lower the taxes on fuel from 23% to 8%. He suspended the gas tax for six months. This is because Poland says: 'I have lignite, first Poland, first the Polish and then the European Union and its mandates'. What do you think? 'First, the European Union and its mandates and then Greek and Greece.' You're making a mistake! First Greece, first Greeks! Conscrete it, so we can move forward. It's a patriotic sense of responsibility that I'm telling you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We have lignites, we have hydroelectric, we have nuclear power. We can do a lot of things. You're just not capable. You're incapable. Now here's why your American friends are only friends of yours. That's why I see ministers photographing and pounding each other with Mr. Pyatt, and every Piat, the patron here in the area. As many times as historically we have reached the line with one tension with Turkey, we have paid it from the Americans. Because in this strategic relationship Greece is always disadvantaged. In 1974 with Kisinger, United States: Cypriot tragedy. In 1996-1997: Imia, with Simi, 'we thank the Americans'. In 2004, the Annan plan. In 2018, the Prespes. In 2022 EastMed. Behind all these unwilling actions, the Americans have always been! Let's talk about it. Always! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And it's not about whether I'm an anti-American or a philosopher or a philosopher. First you'll be friends of Greece and then all the rest. It goes out to the State Department and it clears you and it says and I read it - and the ministers of the New Democracy are not ashamed! - self-evidently: "The United States does not want to participate in the construction of EastMed, because it causes tension in the region". They support the state of fascist, terrorist, which creates tension, Turkey and empty the ally of Greece! That's not how friendships are. That's not how good relationships are. Is that the allied power of Greece? They have ensured the indefinite stay of their bases - which you have committed the crime in New Democracy - for the first time. Neither did SYRIZA. Each year renew the bases. You did it "unfinished time" and you're not ashamed without getting anything! Let's get something, yeah! We should have taken something like a country! We got nothing, Mr Georgiadis, nothing from the Americans, but hitting on the back of useful fools - not to say the other word. And then they unfolded their unwilling attitude and politics. We've been cleared from everywhere! For a year now, Mr Georgiadis, the Marupolis Consulate has been headless - Mr Kastanides knows - he has not gone to a delegation yet. But I'm going to tell you something from there, and everyone gets their own conclusions. It is not possible for Greece to enter into the conflict with Ukraine. We paid her historically twice with Crimea. Don't spread out now. Do not mix with tension with Russia. It's wrong. From Lavrov we learned - he made an announcement - that with Greece he has a problem now. You also put the Patriarch in the wrong and force him to recognize the schismatic Church of Ukraine - why should we be involved? - and call - listen to the highest, he says, church ruler of the Macedonian Church in the Patriarchate and no one speaks! The so-called Macedonian Church! She's supposed to be. These are tragic things that are happening, getting the Patriarchate involved with your mistakes. Gentlemen of the New Democracy see you from where your general, Kostantinos Karamanlis, this great form of your paradisaic, and I am sure his bones are trembling with what you are doing. Sexuals, anti-nationalists are holding your party's hen. Nationalist leaders are now leading in the prime minister's environment. Stateers in favour of the free economy operate within the New Democracy. Parents are playing the Europeans. Rusfetologists exist every day, saying modernists, as well as full-fledged socialists. This is the modern Greek society and it is a tragedy. You abolished the Constitution, basic principles of human rights, the most basic human rights. You've been engaging in medical morality, you, in the New Democracy. People are dying. First in the dead Greece is not apologizing to any of you and taking photos of selfie with each other and we're not a little embarrassed! You're breaking the power of the human body. You've committed multiple crimes, multiple ones! Why? You are not able to convince the Greek people that what you say is reality and is not a lie. So the troika is not internally able to give solutions. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You're absent from the House, most of you. Now look at this House. Look down. The political leaders are not coming. The MPs are coming, leaving, never coming again. The ministers? One here. This is not a parliament, gentlemen of the New Democracy. This is not a parliament, ladies and gentlemen of all parties. We are obliged, we are paid by the Greek people, to operate within the framework of the rights and obligations of the Member, each Member. Where is he? Today, friends and friends, I will tell you and tell you what the New Democracy has achieved. EastMed's on his way. We're losing Israel, it looks like we're reading in the American press. Egypt goes too, after getting reduced influence. Albania goes with Erdogan yesterday. Serbia is also going with the economic interconnection Vucic made with Erdogan yesterday. Skopje's gone, Huffar goes. Otherwise, we're going well! Nothing's going wrong! You've failed all levels, understand it, so you're falling apart. You don't even make polls anymore, because you know the truth. You've taken the line, really, to the left. You're flirting with them. You're flirting with KINAL. Fake Left, not Left. The Left is from here, which is missing anyway. And I say it to you. Elderly, inconsistencies, regressions, crimes. You're out of place! So what do you think? Yes, we've had thousands of people dead - he says - but we saved tourism. I heard that too! Yeah, we-he said 1.3 million acres burned and at least 2 billion losses, but we saved lives. Yeah, we're giving Kastelorizo, but we're gonna save Rhodes and Lero. Yeah, well, they're accurate with the power, but PPC's share is growing. That's who you are in the government! That's who you are! With excuses for a child's mind, you can justify it. Listen, I'll tell you now what connects you to the three parties of power. Because you're gonna collide, it looks like your account doesn't come out. There's an election coming in, just proportionally, you're misled, you're thinking about making another law. Look at your dismay, how democracy has been raped every day. So I hear now, and I read that you are thinking of bringing in new electoral law, because it is not convenient to rule self-powered ones. You look like it. You are the same, flesh from their flesh. In compulsory vaccination, you all agree. At the open borders, you all agree. Don't tell me about Evros. Every day they come in through there. Don't tell me about the Aegean. Every day they come in through there. Abandoning Greek deposits. The story of the tale of climate change. Integration and assimilation of illegal immigrants - immigrants. Management in the Aegean Sea. Prespecies agreement. False progressional conceptions of rightful ones. Blooding public money. These are all your achievements. And it is worth wondering how only Greece and Italy are applying such strict measures in relation to the pandemic. Come on, for Italy, let me get this straight. He's Draghi, a banker, a little unconscious anyway, all right! That is how he has been harnessed, a man of markets, as you say, in any case self-evident. Why just us? Can I talk to you? Because, symptomaticly, both Italy and Greece, we are very much indebted. So what the Germans say is that you do. Whatever you're ordered to do. And I'll tell you something, so we can get a few things straight. I read yesterday a Danish newspaper, which asked for a public apologies for the crimes he committed in the pandemic. She apologized for the lies her journalists were saying. If all the channels and newspapers in Greece come out to say sorry, it will take ten days to apologize, with all the lies they have spoken! The liars! The liars, the journalists and their bosses! The liars! So you want examples of how you do the white one? I shall give an example, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. The Prime Minister went to the Megarra the other day - his own advisers expose him - and enter the health center there and heat him up with the gun, while on the back, a hundred others went in without any control. But are we in good shape? He was thermometered and a hundred others went through the back without any control! But, after this night in the news report, the thermometer only played the thermometry, the thermometering to the Prime Minister! But aren't we a little embarrassed? Do you remember the thirty thousand investors in the Constitution that gathered out here? Do you remember their party, Mr. Georgiadis, out here in the Constitution? I'm talking about the thirty thousand of your investors who came here, down here, across here, to celebrate people! Fifteen days have passed, but I haven't seen 50 thousand of them in hospitals. Nobody went to the hospital. Did he go? Did you tell us how many were hospitalized because of the pandemic, since they had nothing to do with it? It was one on each other, congratulation, all together! But what I heard, Mr. Georgiadis, was from Mr. Theodorikos. Imagine, it says, the Greek police made arrests and applied the law to the Constitution! Yes, but in Flickio Evros, you go and beat the Greeks! That's the difference, that's what bothers me! But it seems that the coronary does not stick to investors, Mr. Georgiadis, and only sticks to the Greeks! It seems so, this is evidenced by the science of the medical science of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u19	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u20	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. The third example. You're fined and you're committing crimes. Listen, Mr. Georgiadis, what are you doing now? You're putting a fine of 100 euros on the retired person because he's not inoculated. If you see this in the economic theory - because money is leverage - the 100 euros do not exist. It's not 100 euros. They can trade from one store to another as well as 1,000 and 2,000. You deprive them of the market. Do you understand what crimes you're committing? Get 100 euros from the retired man! It's not 100 euros. If it is 20 million a month, the money removes it from the market, and that is how you lose VAT. You are so incapable of simply economics, that you really become more dangerous day after day. Reduce consumption, reduce purchase, remove cigarettes and lose VAT with 100 euros fines. What can I tell you now? I really don't understand who teaches you all financially! Fourth example. The measures only apply to the Greeks. Sure! That's true. For foreign host investors, migrants, illegal immigrants, nothing applies. Fifth example. For reasons, he says, class, since you're invasive, you can't be released, you're in trouble, they're closing you from everywhere. Mr. Georgiadis, listen to me. Your investors, Mr. Georgiadis, are all vaccinated? Because I see them here in the Constitution, in Acharones, in Patitia, hanging around all of them. Everyone walks free, no mask, nothing! Only Greek is the problem! I'm telling you all this because you don't become believers and the story begins to fall. Ladies and gentlemen, Boris Johnson decided today to stop the masks, to stop the certificates. Everything is being abolished in England! The Czech government has made a law today that says no more than the mandatory vaccination rate at the top of sixty, no more teleworking, diagnostic tests, evidence of vaccination. He put an end to it everywhere! Spain has imposed a maximum price on rapid test 2.9 euros throughout the territory, Mr Georgiadis! This was done by law! Isn't that where they have capitalism? I don't know, does Spain have a communist state? Oh, no! In Spain, he says, rapid test costs 2.9 euros. It also says that the repetitive dose will take place after five, six months. Reimbursement of fines. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy! We promise that in the next election Greeks will get back what you have done unjustly and enforced, they will get that stolen money back. Because they're stolen! I've fined back then! Why? Because these fines have not been applied to everyone! The principle of proportionality means that. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In Catalonia, the health authorities considered COVID Pass ineffective, imposed a lifting of traffic restrictions from Friday 21-2022. Let the Minister tell us here - but don't start telling me 'we'll see how' - when the market will open, when the Greek will open, when it will be released. Belgium: Branch of the Special Committee on Mandatory Vaccination. Czech Republic: Cancel compulsory vaccination. I tell you everything, I tell you what is happening in Europe! We finally propose primary care, re-entry of all the fighting doctors - nurses you fired. It's embarrassing what you've done! You sent back seven thousand fighters! Yes, my Admiral! It can be easy for the Minister to fire people. But I'll tell you one thing. When the Prime Minister applauded this doctor, he today deprives the bread of his family. That's the mistake! That's a big mistake, it's a crime, because we need them. We don't have doctors. Do you know what Cappravelos said yesterday to SKAI? He said people die because there are no doctors and nursing staff, that on the "Papanikolaou" Mrs. Angelopoulos gave money and we did IF but they don't have nursing staff, Mr. Admiral! That's what Cappravelos said! He's yours, he's a neo-democrat! It's not a Greek solution or a SYRIZA! So what were we supposed to do? Re-entry the fighters, bring them back. There are, of course, many other proposals that we have tabled in writing. And I close with this, so I don't trouble you. Repeal, then. Here's the difference. In your neo-democratic new order of things, Mr. Georgiadis and gentlemen of the New Democracy, things are the Greeks. That's the problem! But we say no to that and we insist. Oh, no! It's not Greeks! The Greeks deserve other treatment. Have you ever wondered who we are and where you drive the Greeks? Do you know what it means to be Greek? Mr. Georgiadis, I'm going to read you - and I'm closing here - something Nietzche was saying. You've read him. Of course you've forgotten a little now, but it's okay. So I read: "Every period and stage of culture tried to liberate from the Greeks, because every achievement that fantasized original and model and marvelous proved to be a poor copy of what the Greeks had achieved. That is why deep anger is erupting against the Greeks...'. Nietz! “...who are those who have the claim to hold the position of genius against mass? But envy, slander, hatred was not enough to destroy the selfish glow of the Greeks. Anyone who dares to recognize the truth feels ashamed and afraid in front of the Greeks. The Westerners don't recognize the truth. They feel ashamed and fearful, produce poison, Mr. Georgiadis, "produce envy, slander and hatred against Hellenism...". When the President of Parliament violates the Rules of Procedure, you understand where we are going and where we are driving. ‘The product of envy is anti-Byzantinism.’ That's all about Nietzsche. And I'm closing up saying something about the big guy, too big, about the great Aleco Fasian who's gone. So he said: "Of course I am inspired by the Greek Revolution of 1921, because I have always found interest that passion for the continuity of our nation has created ideological awakenings, such as the defence of our ancient Greek origin." Mr. Georgiadis, you have the "Greek Education". That's it, that's Greece! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Take over the debt you have to the Greeks. Tell the truth, because elections are coming and one-way elections are the solution to the problem. You in the New Democracy are part of the problem. The solution to the problem is the Greek Solution, which will come to rule! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Committee of Inquiry into the public opinion policy operation, the adequacy of institutions and the destruction of public money, in accordance with Rule 148(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, has presented its conclusion to the President of Parliament, which will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u23	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 92-115]] Mr President, I will not respond to what the Chief of Greek Solution said. I'll leave them for my speech, I've noted them. I will answer only one, what Nietzhe said about Greece, and whether I remember them. Nietzsche, Mr President of the Greek Solution, really admired Greece. What Greece? Greece of conspiracy? Greece, which says these unscientific deliriums we heard before? Greece of rationalism admired, Greece of science admired, Greece of pioneering. You, Mr. Velopoulos, don't get confused. You do not represent the Greece that Nietzsche admired, which I very much remember and I am still well aware of. You represent Greece that was hated by Nietzsche, Greece of decline, populism, conspiracy, darkness. So stop attacking science, vaccines, human knowledge all the time. Science and medical and human knowledge are births of Greek culture and learn to respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr President, you have the floor for one minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u27	I didn't know Mr. Georgiadis became a doctor. And a doctor? You're all of it, and Minister of Finance and Development and Doctor and Energy, but Adonis Georgiades you are, so you can be of everything! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and a hundred and fifty-six Members of his party, have tabled a proposal, in accordance with Rule 148(3) of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into the civil manipulation operation of the public opinion, the abundance of institutions and the destruction of public money, tabled in plenary session on 20 January 2022. The above proposal is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u29	We are now entering the list of speakers, with the first speaker, Mr Christos Boukoro. I appeal to all speakers to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what we have heard before, not only from the President of the Greek Solution, but also from the rapporteurs of other parties in the Opposition, it is clear that Greece is currently implementing - and yesterday we have seen the relevant images - the largest armament programme in recent decades. With its decisions, the current government increases the deterrent power of the country's Armed Forces. It is only there that it is building alliances with the Arab world, with Israel, with our classic allies, that we are rekindling our relations in the context of supranational organisations and, more generally, it is an image of the country's seriousness and credibility. That, if you want, is not our idea or our opinion. A glance at the publications of the European and world press - the vast majority of them, because they cannot all be in one direction - testify exactly what I am claiming. Now if some people, in order to make opposition, say, say, claim, accelerating to new ideas of the press that those who work with us on the international precinct and enter into alliances and partnerships cannot cooperate with any other state in the world, that does not stand in any sense. What I want to say about what has been said before is that the country is stronger than two, three, four, five, six or ten years ago. Each good-looking observer can really see that. From there on, above all, the Quaestors and other parties, on the basis of today's bill, which has to do with the functioning of the Competition Committee and the better use of fair competition, actually speaks of energy, in terms of essential goods. Is there precision? Of course there is. And it is painful, especially for the people as well as for the entire Greek people, and especially for the economy and its operation. We are not one of those who will distort reality. There is precision in both raw materials and fuel and energy, due to exogenous factors absolutely. Of course, if I were a member of the opposition, I would criticise the government in fact, whether because of external factors or internal policies. But by focusing there and only there, in a context of counterproductive protest, without suggesting how to deal with the next crisis of accuracy, both in raw materials and in energy, you offer nothing to the Greek people. What is the current government doing and how can accuracy be addressed from our own country, which is a small economy in an open world economy called globalisation? Can when it shrinks its production base, when it fails to achieve growth, can the Greek economy stand in terms of competition and withstand the waves of precision? Of course not. So what do we need? Upgrade of the country's production base, growth. And what did our current prosecutors do? The Minister of Development told you yesterday. They voted for a development law in 2016, the SYRIZA Development Law. By July 2019 you had made grants through your own development law of EUR 1 billion. The Government of New Democracy comes in July 2019 and so far, two and a half years later, with SYRIZA's law, which apparently less believed the New Democracy's party, provided 2.6 billion in two and a half years, not three and a half years. Who, then, is helping to develop and expand the country's production base to meet the international challenges, similar to those we live with at this time? So can we say that a small economy, opened in the archipelago of globalisation, can withstand the formation of fuel prices, raw materials, not make development policies? Who can claim this and convince? Unless we believe in the theories of 'leaf trees' that prices are either globally increasing or not, there will always be a corvana, some leaf trees, which will be faced with this price rise. Of course, it is an obligation for the state to come and help with a sudden and difficult situation. That is why the government alone for the last crisis has put on the table for the households and business accounts only for the previous month, only for one month, 1.5 billion. But until when can this go on? Why is the energy in Greece expensive? Because we are not self-sufficient in energy. And, of course, the RES is a solution, but it is our responsibility, Minister, to see the issues of the barriers in the Trikala region and the operation of hydroelectric plants. The previous government ideologically dealt with these issues. We must now finally take them seriously. We do not have the luxury, if you like, of an energy deficit of 500 million a year or 1 billion a year. The dams of Sykia and Messochora must now be seen, with seriousness and determination. That is a personal point of view, which I express from the Step of the House. And of course, we will also be concerned about the energy crisis and the price crisis in raw materials in the next few days, but as long as we go into a development field - and that will also be the development law that is currently being discussed in Parliament - it is important that development law, which is a long way from all previous development laws. It gives small businesses liquidity and gives tax incentives to medium and larger enterprises. The only people who receive cash support are small businesses, let's see who they are with, not words and labels. Because patriotism, progressiveity and other concepts, ladies and gentlemen, are not labels, but it is an act and politics is judged on the result. We all have intentions. I don't question anyone's intentions. But the result is that it counts. With regard to today's bill, we hope that the modernisation of the competitive framework with the changes to Law 3959/2011 and the incorporation of Directive 1/2019 of the European Union will help to operate competition. However, in order to operate the competition framework, there must be a productive basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u31	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u32	I am sorry, but I will remind you once again, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Representation, that you have not achieved any development goals in your day. You did not achieve the objectives you had written into all the budgets. You have achieved half the growth, and next year, the growth rate of three years will be over 15%, despite the crisis of 10% of 2020 from the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u33	Come on, Mr. Bukowo! You've reached nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u34	These are the differences, that is what the world sees, that is what the real economy sees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr. Paul Paulakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start my speech because I promised Mr Georgiadis by the committees that we will also see you in plenary on this bill. A word about this bill, about ratification. Mr Georgiadis, you are bringing this ratification over a year's delay and having omitted the most crucial article, in order to reintroduce the unprecedented, authoritarian, anti-democratic and unacceptable removal from the Committee on Competition. You have removed from the ratification of the Convention the article that the European directive says that the criteria of the choice of independent authorities can subsequently enter and have retroactive power, as you did to prosecute, then in 2019, Mrs Thanou from the Competition Committee and put your chosen one, which has absolutely nothing to show until now and which, apparently, the intention of removal was to do with the history of Mr Marinakis's "ARGOS" company. One-zero. Let's go to the rest: Mr. Georgiades, I'm going to talk about the pandemic and the PCR test, because the day before yesterday, in your habit, you came out here and made a lot of talk about PCR, as if you were talking to people who don't understand. Well, because I understand and I know very well - better than you, because I'm in space - I'm telling you: You're a protector of the wholesalers. I say it from the Step of the House, and I prove it. How much is it, Mr. Georgiadis, the PCR test, the reagent, supplied by the National Center of Blood? How much is there? You know? You're Minister of Development. He's got 11 euros. All the clinics, the diagnostic centers, how much do they supply it? You know? You know the market. You're Minister of Development. From 5 to 8 euro. Most of them around 7 euros. Why are you giving them a price of EUR 47 and, secondly, why have you left so long to pay EUR 60 and 80? Can you answer that specifically? Don't start my wholesale, retail, and it doesn't fit! That's bullshit. We have told you - I have told you, the President-in-Office has told us - for a long time now, when he was normalized and history has to be prescribed and compensated for by the EEAY, whether in public or private sector, because demand cannot be met, at a price that cannot be more than EUR 22 to 23. They have a profit, they live, they are co-financed, and this is seen by the fact that you have been demolished by three mayors, the Mayor of Sykes, the Danielides, the Mayor of Hallander and Andreas Efthymios, in Moschato, who have taken, as mayors, for a thousand customers - to say so - prices of EUR 25. You say that, with ten million customers under his insurance cover, the EEA can't tell the clinics, the private sector and the public hospitals, which are also provided with the prices I have said and below the CSCE, that yes, you will be paid EUR 22-23. These, in particular, are not in general terms. Of course, gather with the lies you're saying that they don't happen in other countries of Europe. Your newspapers have posted what is happening throughout Europe and you lie and you lie and your Prime Minister is lying in the interview the other day to Hajijikolaou, when he asked him again the question with the dolmadics, who had arranged the loans at the time and took him lalu and grievances! Because in almost all the countries of Europe test PCR is free, prescribed, compensated by the recommendation of the doctor and those with symptoms! Very few are countries where some exceptions may pay, come from abroad, or I don't know what. This is happening throughout Europe, that is reality. Let's go to a third again with the pandemic. Tell me, Mr Georgiadis, if we after two years - why are we not now in March 2020 or in the summer of 2020 going back with the sunsets and the caldera behind us, at the end of the pandemic, not even after the last mile, the mile, the mile, which has become ten thousand lilies under the sea - if we, after two years of management of the pandemic last night, had, after two years, twenty-two thousand two hundred eighty-five dead, to which the Constitution fan would you hang along with Substantial, Portuguese and all the journalistic company "KAI" screaming for the murdering government of Tsipras, health ministers, Xanthi and Polakis and does not get together? Do you understand the number, Mr. Georgiadis? They're twenty-two-two-two-two-eight-five. Do you know what our position is in Europe and in the world ranking? Do you know who she is? What position are we in the eighty-eight countries? Thirty-five. What position are we in Western Europe? They're passing us, but not for a long time, because we're going up. One is the indicator, everything else is bullshit. One is the index: Deaths per million population. We have reached the two thousand and fifty-four deaths per million population. What countries do we pass? Do you remember Sweden, where you said "l'm glad we didn't become Sweden"? There's a thousand five hundred twenty-six. Germany, how many does it have? A thousand three hundred eighty eighty-eighty. Denmark, how many does it have? Six hundred twenty. The Netherlands, how many does it have? Six hundred eight. We are going through Italy, Belgium and the United Kingdom, but not for a long time yet, at the rate we are going to take. Yesterday we had eighty-eight dead. Is that the success in managing the pandemic? You have failed, with disastrous results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President, and thank you very much. You have failed and that seems to be because, as my colleague said earlier, Mr Bukkokouros, we are our results. We're not our intentions. We have told you and once again I say that people are dying of "Delta". Buy more monoclonals. Order the monoclonal "GLAXO", which catches the "Omicon". Bring as fast as you can and the antiviral pills and the PFIZER. The new and most effective is PFIZER. Burla won't fight you! Bring it quickly, move it. If we hadn't, what would you have done? Paulis doesn't bring the drugs and people die! Haven't you noticed in the last few days, after the fuss with the Mayor's father and doctor's father from Chania, where within a month and a half have you given a hundred twenty instalments of the two thousand and then you gave 15 or twenty days the other two thousand? Why did deaths fall from a hundred to sixty? That's why they fell. Now that it's over, they're coming back up again, they've taken the climb again. And one last word. You are exposed multiplely, Mr. Georgiadis, with the history of CEDEFOP. Let me remind you of the videos, you've taken them off your page when I had revealed this scandal. Because right now you're not indicted, because there were two elections in 2015. The first two of the thirty cases, which we found and sent to the prosecutor and checked on the tiles, concern three of your close colleagues. You've got them today and you're smuggling them. It is Mrs Theophilatos, who you have in your office, Mr Poulis, who is your seller in the West Attica - look out, help not to miss two wins next time in the Parliamentary Group - and Mrs Polyzou, who has been appointed to the Development Bank. Now they go for a felony, 1.6m euros, with one of the two cases being your twenty-two poster, who found this way to get them to the Ministry, when you exceeded the limit and appointed them to the CEDEFOP seropositive structures, and well they never ran and were all over the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u37	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u38	The fat cases are those that have not been persecuted definitively and are related to the huge crime of dispersal through CEDEFOP and on your days, where the Petsa list is a copy of the CEDEFOP list and the Georgian list.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u39	Not to open the matter, please, Mr. Polakis. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u40	You have drawn up a list of eight hundred contracts, Mrs Theophilatos, the official, the excellent one you have in your office.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Polakis, you're out of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u42	After you set him up the list that you shared 15 million and 20 million euros in a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u43	Mr Polakis, you have no right to speak more than any speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u44	That is all I wanted to say, of course. Now, in fact, a word, because Mr. Bukokouros said something. Look, PPC's accuracy. I said before, with the examples of PCR, how the accuracy is. Download them at 29 euros not to be accurate. Pick up the basic salary to 800 euros, reduce excise duties. With PPC, who made the decision to close all lignite now, on the spot, and with gas in God? How will the honor fall when you sold PPC to the fund where he also found a job after, accidentally, the Prime Minister's daughter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u46	It's very stressful, Mr. Athanasios. You're getting nervous. Every time I get out here you have tachycardia to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u47	Do you have tachycardia when you see me in the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u48	I have a controlled rate. You bet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u49	No MEP can be treated more favourably than the whole, no one is entirely and nor is there anything special here in the House. You're excellent from another point of view. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u50	In the PCR, although I responded in detail the other day, I will reply to my speech in part to the draft law in the sense of competition, and I consider it to be relevant. Mr. Polakis, I would like to begin by congratulating you. She was extremely successful, as it appears, the gathering you made in favour of Mr. Vaxebane outside the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u52	The cosmopolitan you managed to gather is still being discussed in Athens. I still don't think cars have been able to move from about thirty-two people, half of whom were SYRIZA MPs, who gathered out of the Areos Ice after all the fuss you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u53	Take glasses.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u54	I say that just so everyone knows how much the real shade is, because sometimes Facebook and Twitter blind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u55	You'll see the shade soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u56	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u57	But he's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u58	Don't interrupt. He didn't interrupt you. You made a placement, respecter. He's answering. This is the parliamentary dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, today I was reading the TVXS article by Mr Culloglou about Mr Polakis, and I really thought that at least you, the rest of SYRIZA, will have the provision for a while to eliminate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u60	As a sign of decommissioning, I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I must be able to speak without interrupting me. Don't make the political confrontation so easy, bringing Mr. Polakis here every day. You know, sort of compare him. I'm keeping what he said. He accused Mr. Hatzinikolaou, Mr. Portisalte, Mr. Sub-Photo in these five, six, ten minutes who spoke and the entire ARGOS agency. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, would you like to send us a list of the journalists you approve of interviewing? We do not go interview journalists who do not receive Mr Polakis' approval, because in this case we will be fighting and that is not right. So give us a list, Mr. Poppa or Mr. Haritsi, with which journalists you agree to discuss. Because here, in ten minutes, he was calling half the country's journalistic world. And finally for seriousness. I, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, would never let Mr Polakis in particular talk about the most important indicator of the pandemic, which is the dead per million, and I would tell you why I would not leave him. If you see the evolution of this index, that is, dead per million, and how Greece goes in relation to the countries of Europe, you will see that there is a point of incision, from where Greece went much better, it begins to go much worse. What's the point of intersection? Initiation of vaccinations. The countries that have quickly exceeded us at the vaccination level have improved their performance very well in this more important indicator, because one to die is a loss of tragedy, and the countries that have not been able to go first to vaccination are those that started to go worse to this indicator. We have also lost positions on the countries that have exceeded our vaccination. Why wouldn't I leave Mr. Polakis? Because all Greece knows that the informal leader of the anti-infectious movement in Greece is Paul Paulakis, who is now talking about ivermectin, about monoclonals he speaks, about anti-Calclics, but about vaccines he does not speak and unfortunately revealed that even his mother left her uninvasive from the third dose. So when we all know that this tough index is fully linked to vaccination and the campaign of vaccination, to leave the House, Mr Haritsis, the leader of the anti-embryo movement in Greece to talk about this index, to which he himself has personal responsibility, he goes very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u63	SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u64	Minister, have you realised that you are ruling, that you are a government? Is it possible for the failure of the vaccination program to be blamed by anyone other than your government? Come on, get serious! We have twenty-two thousand dead, and you are again trying to transfer responsibility anywhere other than you. Do you remember what you were saying a few months ago? We talked about it here in the House when you said that we were 12 times better than Belgium in relation to the losses per million people. Where are we today in relation to countries such as Spain? We're almost Italy. We all remember what had happened and the tragic situation in the neighbouring country in the first wave. The failure of the vaccination programme is a failure of the Mitsotakis Government, and of course what we are living today, this national tragedy that we are experiencing today is the failure of the vaccination programme, but also the fact that you have not supported the ESS two years now. Two years now you have left doctors and nurses unprotected, with all of them fighting, with an entire society affected. This is the result of your policy and you are accountable to the Greek people for these tragic results that we are experiencing today and for this situation that brings our country to the worst place in all of Western Europe, to the losses of our fellow people per millions of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u65	The Minister has the floor for a brief clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u66	There is no failure of the vaccination programme in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u67	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u68	The government has managed to build one of the most effective vaccination systems in Europe, for which we have been praised by all the countries of Europe. There is unfortunately a hard core of people in our country who cannot be vaccinated. This, Mr. Haritsis, you understand that it cannot be a government responsibility, nor can we go into the minds of all people. Today - let's say - in the newspaper "TA NEWs" there is a headline for Mount Athos, which says that all those who have suffered have died on Mount Athos. Does the government have a responsibility if a monk on Mount Athos is not vaccinated or believe that the vaccine is Satan? Does SYRIZA really think so? The problem is, however, that in the public debate - thankfully because we are a western country - it is not just the government, we are all listening. And it sounds very loud, and Mr. Paul Paulakis also. And I'm sure you've known his dozens of posts against vaccines all this time since the first day. So don't take your tail out of this whole story, Mr. Haritsi. SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras have a huge responsibility for leaving this man so long to distribute the whole poison to Greek society for the vaccines. And yes, obviously, you have also taken many people into your neck with this inertia.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u70	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u71	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u72	How isn't there? She said about my mother and she doesn't exist? How does it not exist, Mr. Athanasios?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u73	Let me go and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u74	Give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u75	Personnel is in two cases. Read Article 68 to see them. You don't go to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u76	I've read it many times. I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u77	It's over. The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr. Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Athanasios, said Mr. Georgiadis as not due to my mother! Give me the floor, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u79	Mr Minister, you have the floor to support Amendment No 1193.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Athanasios, give me the floor and I'll explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u81	No, there's no personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u82	Give me the reason to support the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u83	You did a placement, and the Minister answered you. There's no staff. There was no reproach against you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u84	Give me the reason to support the staff. You're obligated. Mr. Athanasios, you are obliged. Give me the reason to support the staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u85	Wait a minute. Have a seat, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I speak as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u87	Please, Mr. Haritsi. You'll see from Article 68 what it says about the staff. If he has a reproach against you, you will tell me what the reproach is. Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u88	My mother, she said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u89	What did he say exactly? What's that? Deploy it. Open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u90	He said I left my mother uninvasive.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u91	What are you talking about? You won't develop it. You'll put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u92	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u93	What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u94	That I left my mother uninvasive.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u95	That?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u96	But you're not? That I left my mother uninvasive! That's what he said! Didn't you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u97	He said that, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u98	Oh, he said it and he isn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u99	This is a crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u100	Give me the floor, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u101	Answer that. You're not gonna talk about vaccines or anything else. You left your mother uninvasive? Say it. Only on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u102	What I'm going to say about the personal reproach I've received is my own account.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u103	In this, Mr. Polakis. You won't have a dialogue here...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u104	Listen, Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u105	Say about your mother.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u106	Will you stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u107	Here, for your mother.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Georgiades, I've been practicing medicine for thirty years. I know her as few people know her in this country. You are not able to understand what happened to my mother with the two doses of vaccination and when the third was scheduled. You played a script of filth and trisathol, when a mother of former minister - and that's how it had to be - went to Rethymno Hospital to perform a PCR test, as she had symptoms of respiratory infection. And because my mother has a disease subject and takes a biological agent and another medicine, which you consider to be immunosuppressed, there had to be a PCR test, so if, based on the evolution of the disease, there was to be an uploaded as the network says. I, Mr. Georgiadis, never did what you did, which was gathered over your days cancer patients outside your office and you sold them the chemo, because that's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u109	All right, that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u110	Wait a minute! My mother, like every Greek citizen, sat six hours and waited for the fifth hour, they tell her that there can't be a test because the privates closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u111	These are out now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u112	It's inside. And as for the rest of the reproach, open your eyes and see...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u113	There's no other reproach. Mr. Polakis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u114	I'm done. See what I've said since last year in relation to vaccines, pandemic, drug effectiveness and find me one that doesn't apply. One!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u115	Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u116	Because I'm done in medicine, I'm not finished with history. Let's explain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u117	To clarify something with the Rules of Procedure. It is not personal with the letter of the Rules of Procedure. But he had a vote you had to answer, and that's why I gave you the floor. But it's not personal within the meaning of the law. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u118	First and foremost, I wish your mother many facts. Always be well, be healthy, and be charming and delightful, any objections. She's a mother. I didn't have your luck getting my mother to eighty-three. I lost her at her fifty-three. And so I understand much more how great the mother’s loss to someone is. My comment had nothing to do with your mother, obviously. It was about you. Why with you? Because all the instructions that have been given to us by the doctors - I have not made any directives, nor do I want to, I only follow the doctors' instructions, and I want them to be heard in this House in case we agree - they say that people over sixty and as long as their age rises even more and especially those who have underlying illnesses must definitely make the third dose. And today to mention that the platform has been opened specifically for these people for the fourth instalment. I was therefore very surprised that you left your mother - who was precisely in this category for which your fellow doctors and not historians - have taken these directives out and has not been vaccinated. I don't want to get into her medical file. I respect what you said. You guys made this whole story in public, not me. I repeat that, in my opinion, mothers will remain outside political controversy. And, if you would like me, you put it very poorly on Facebook, very badly! You shouldn't have put your mother in the political game. In any case, however, we are all judged on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u120	Wait a minute. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, I'll say it again. Mr. Haritsis, what Mr. Paulakis has written and supported it a minute ago and said that everything is correct, are they also SYRIZA's position? Just stuff! If they do not belong to the SYRIZA, to do, Mr. Haritsis and Mr. Tsipras, that you do not listen to this daily poison against the vaccines, forgive me, they make you extremely exposed to public opinion and obviously deprives you of every right to criticise the pandemic in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you all, but I have to remind all parties that the bill we are discussing is about competition. The Minister for Justice has the floor to support Amendment 113/18-1-20222.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before the National Representation to present Article 5 of the Amendment with a general number of 1193 and a specific number of 108. I imagine that you are all society of a reality when it comes to the great lack of - numerically, - of judicial officers in the justice system. We have managed to integrate into mobility the possibility of moving civil servants from the public sector into the area of justice. In fact, this amendment amends the provision on mobility to the courts, the prosecutors and the general committees of the country. In particular, it is limited only to permanent political officials. At the same time, the procedure whereby the competent judicial board judges the officials responsible for the transfer shall be simplified and the procedure applicable to other public bodies shall apply mutatis mutandis. With this arrangement, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to implement this regulation of the Ministry of Justice on the inclusion of courts in mobility only as a host entity. The judiciary will be able to judge the applications submitted more quickly and more effectively, so that more than two hundred and fifty employees will be directly integrated into the administrative departments of the formations of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u123	On the amendment by the Minister, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u124	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u125	Minister, we had adopted the Code of Justice to which we had reached a 2% threshold for secondments. This is where you make the reverse. You're bringing in employees. I wanted to ask you this. You say that the competent body in which the candidates are assessed is the competent judicial board on a case-by-case basis. You're not saying anything about evaluation conditions. Would you leave that to the general rule of the Public Officials Code? That is what I wanted, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u126	Minister, would you like to give an explanation?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u127	Very fast to answer. There was a field of reflection, on the one hand, because there are many applications for candidates who want to move from the public sector to the area of justice and, on the other, the process of evaluation by the judiciary councils included some issues that had to be simplified. That is the logic of this amendment. Of course, the criteria are the ones that follow the Code of Judiciary, as you have rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Antoniou has the floor. You're on the priority list too. So you'll have nine minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. Following the productive dialogue which we have heard and developed in the Chamber, the Minister responsible is out. Mr. Hatzidakis is here, but it would be nice if the Minister were here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the substance of the bill, allow me a small, but not an irrelevant derogation. Yesterday, the citizens stayed vigilant seeing Mr. Mitsotakis' video with the Rafas as a party leader in the shape of the New Democracy, instead of as Prime Minister of the country with the nationalisation of the Hellenic Republic, as if the Rafas paid for by the New Democracy from its funds and not the Greek taxpayers from their defensive armour of the country. As a genuine patriotic party we gave our consent to the Rafah market and the country's defensive armour, as we have always done. However, we pointed out that it is a national need to upgrade the domestic defence industry. However, the government has proved no will when signing the 2,5 billion Rafah Convention, so that it can be combined with the assignment of part of the construction work to the Greek defence industry. Such opportunities cannot be lost for our country that can bring it many steps ahead of high-tech production in the defence sector. It seems, however, that the Government of New Democracy does not have the political will, but also the plan to strengthen the production base of the domestic defence industry directly linked to the development of the country. But I will continue with the bill. This is a bill on the transposition of Directive 2019/1 on the rules of operation of the internal market. It is a bill that you say is intended to strengthen the Competition Committee and ensure the proper functioning of the market. We obviously do not reject this objective or the relevant European rules. But three reasonable questions emerge. Are there currently the same conditions of competition and the functioning of the internal market in Greece as the other European countries incorporating the same directive, or is Greece significantly lacking in the effective application of the rules? Does the Greek Competition Committee have all the necessary tools to perform its role, or is it dealing with cases where its hands are tied up? Does the Greek Government have the political will to deal with distortions in the Greek internal market or actually tolerate them and ultimately strengthen them? These questions are not just reasonable, but also critical at a time when our country's citizens are paid cheaply with Balkan wages and pay expensively at Western Europe's prices. The truth is that the Competition Committee today is very different from the Karamanlis period, when the blue-rooted carte scandal has seriously hit its prestige. This is due to the introduction of Law 3959/2011 by the PASOK Government which has made a decisive contribution to the modernisation of the Competition Committee. Over the past decade, our country has promoted, ladies and gentlemen, reforms that have claimed to be confronted with problems in the functioning of the internal market for the benefit of consumers and the healthy competition of businesses. However, the results of these reforms proved to be poor. Greeks with income close to 60% of the European average pay for a number of critical goods and services a cost above, or close to, the European average. This did not start with the rapid rise in inflation in 2021. Our country was more expensive than that. Greeks face today's inflation from a worse starting point than other Europeans, since in the last decade they lost 27% of their available income. That is why it is funny to claim that inflation in Greece does not yet reduce their purchasing power as the average resident in the euro area. Can this bill improve the competitiveness of the domestic market? Some of the provisions of the bill are technical improvements to the institutional framework for competition, but we do not expect any substantial changes in the Greek market, because there is simply no political will on the part of the government. The Competition Committee does not have all the necessary instruments and tools at its disposal today, while its staff are reduced. On the basis of Union and national case-law, it is not sufficient to demonstrate that there is price harmonisation between companies. It must be able to demonstrate that this harmonisation is the result of some form of coordination between companies in order to infringe competition law. In this case, however, companies are implementing practices that are not covered by the existing provisions and cannot therefore be dealt with by the Competition Committee. The same is true of the abusive practices applied by digital platform companies, as you have been pointed out, Minister, consumer organisations, but you have withdrawn it, as the market wanted, and even at a time when the pandemic has been a huge turn for the consumer in electronic markets. However, in addition to the poor regulatory framework, the quality of competition is largely determined by the government's own strategic choices that give some dominant market positions, while others disappear from the map. This is because the liquidity given to the banking system over the last two years has reached few privileged ones who have access to the state-sponsored financial instruments, because the EUR 18.5 billion of the grants from the Recovery Fund mainly concern projects designed by few for the few. And that is today the major political issue for the Mitsotakis Government, that it wants to put its party signal everywhere and to shape the market on the basis of that even. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Antoniou. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC, as our rapporteur, Mr. Synthrakis, has pointed out, stands against the government's bill, because it legislates the needs of major business groups to create a more friendly environment for increased competitiveness and profitability. In this sense of implementation and other claims arising from the large groups, the amendments tabled are also included. You want to hide, gentlemen, and joy doesn't leave you, as the people say. As much as you say your priority is health, it turns out that profits are a priority. On the one hand, although the worker is ill, with a reduction in earnings if he gets sick leave, and on the other hand with a total of billions of money for the large business groups. Amendment No 1193, with a specific number of 108, has the misleading title: ‘Statutes to civil servants, parents of CIVID-19’. The days of leave were five. If the child continues to be ill, he can't go on empty. The special five-day sick leave is on a fee of three days from the service, the other two from the normal leave. It is also foreseen that if the child continued to be ill, there is no other facility, as the inhumane arrangement is described, but it may be absent without payment or may be licensed normal. So is Amendment No 1194 with Articles 2 and 3. It is once again misleadingly referred to as 'paid facilities for parents in the private sector because of the illness of their children', and in practice it is the prevention of the absence of parents. How do you do, gentlemen? Leaving aside the blackmail of the employers who, as has been said, said to the worker: 'Take Depon and come to work'. That's what you do and it's barbarism, so we're asking you to get the specific arrangements back. By this article the parent, if his child is ill, can work telework, if possible, for five days. The five days of sickness leave, if not possible, will not be full-paid as it was until now for the ten days, but are described as a sickness leave with a 50% reduction in pay. A special period of five days will be paid only for the four days and the fifth day will be charged to the normal leave. What did you do? You are worsening the arrangements that have existed so far or the sickness permits. The wages in the permits will be 50%, as all three of the employer, one from the ECA, will only be paid for four. With Article 4, while the Government should have taken care of a universal free vaccination programme with clear instructions, free precaution before vaccination, post-vaccination surveillance of vaccines for any side effects, instead of bringing the article into force by strengthening the unacceptable and dangerous policy of individual responsibility in the treatment of pandemic with the mandatory vaccination for over sixty years and the penalties for non-vaccination with a fine of EUR 100. The Government is attempting to hide its criminal responsibility for the thousands of deaths due to the provocative lack of measures to protect the people from the misuse of the public health system, from the 'ladder' protocols confronting workers, unprecedented primary health care, the lack of substantial information on vaccines and vaccinations, contradictions and old age. Article 1 of this amendment refers to the change in the deadlines for the consultation procedure for setting the minimum wage, in order to implement the Prime Minister's announcement that it will apply from May and not from June, provided for in the Law - looting of 2013, and there is no commitment to the level of increase, except that it will be much greater than the 2% increase, this huge increase of fifty cents from 1-1 to 22, which not only has been eliminated, but that the scannings have further reduced the market value of the current hunger wage. You tried with the help of the media to create expectations that the increase would be significant at the minimum wage. So you try to throw ashes into the eyes of the workers of the people’s families who see their income accept the graceful shot from the great wave of accuracy. Gentlemen, the overall losses in the standard of living of workers reach or reach 50% in the time of the crisis. The average employee before his income tax has lost 25% to 30% of his wage purchasing power in 2009. The large reduction in average wages, the introduction of the 10th hour with an eight-hour wage, the increase in overtime and the reduction in wages under the Hatzidakis Act, the introduction, on the occasion of the pandemic, of the suspension and cooperation programmes with a further reduction in earnings of more than 20%, the intensification of work, the rapid expansion of flexible forms of work - six out of ten - the recycling of unemployment through the tens of fewer programmes are the main axes of the working environment that has been shaped over all these years and has scattered the misery of workers and the populace. Based on this, the Ministry's own detailed periodic statements, three out of ten employees work with part-time employment and an average salary of EUR 406, mixed, EUR 345 net. Tell me who can live, gentlemen, in these and especially in these conditions? Does anyone live with you? Have you tried to see what it means to you 345 euros a month? The amendment concerns only the deadlines. Any increase that will arise will be based on Vrutsi - Ahtsoglu. Its provisions provide for a minimum wage with the criteria of competitiveness and a guarantee of profitability. The minimum wage currently falls by EUR 101 compared to the minimum wage that was in 2012. The setting of minimum wages at degrading levels makes the average wage for all employees alike, and this has already fallen to EUR 785, including any overtime and overworking, of which the tax is also due. The JRC Parliamentary Group has submitted for a multiplier time since 2013 to all governments, as one and a half months ago, namely on 1 December 2021, the amendment to reintroduce the minimum wage and salary to EUR 751 and EUR 33,57 for the non-aged dividend, as a basis for increases with the reintroduction of collective labour agreements. It also provided for the increase of 10% for every three years of service up to three years, for the minimum wage of the workers, an increase of 5% for every three years to six years. At the minimum wage and wage levels that will be formed, the allowance will be added to 10%. This provision which we are proposing will, of course, remain in force until all these anti-competitive laws are abolished and collective agreements on the basis of Law 1896/1990, where national general collective agreements on labour will determine the minimum wage and non-wage conditions applicable to workers throughout the country. It should be said that the framework that exists today is what has been formed by the New Democracy, the PASOK, the DIMAR by the Act of the Ministerial Council number 6 of 2012, then by the 2013 Brutsis Act, the Law of N.4172, and of course by the Act of Ahtsoglou, the n. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We call on the trade unions to strengthen their struggle to abolish this anti-corruption framework, to participate massively in them, to make their own case the JRC's amendment, to draw conclusions from the attitude of all the other parties that they rejected to ensure the increased profitability of business groups, to co-operate with the JRC. in order to get rid of this barbarism, with a radical change in the level of power and economy, which, as an iron law, will have the satisfaction of the expanded needs rather than the profits that are the cause of the widespread misery of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Kattotis. Mr Georgiodakis has the floor for two minutes to support the amendment under a general number 1193 and immediately after Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Article 6 of the amendment by the Ministry of Interior of a general number of 1193 and a specialist of 108 concerning overtime work of JEP officials for the provision of services related to emergency needs and to the protection of public health against the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past year, about a year and a half, workers in the JEPs have been the only public guise to deal with vaccination-related cases. It has made a titanium effort to cope with all the needs that have arisen. These needs are related both to the planning of vaccinations and to the registration of vaccination doses that have taken place abroad, so that the next ones in our country can be scheduled. It has to do with the registration of those who had a disease abroad. It is related to the provision of a temporary AMCA number to enable them to be vaccinated. It has to do with the issue of vaccination certificates or diseases certificates. To give you a small picture of the number of natural presences made in the JEPs for all of this, apart from the information and information which is certainly also provided by the JEP officials, I refer to three million two hundred and six thousand acts, virtually visits to the JEPs which really bear a great burden from handling all these cases. As acknowledgment of this very great effort, which they have made as the only guise that accepts a natural presence of people, who have many questions, many issues, and to which JEP officials are able to cope, but also as an incentive to recompense for overtime in the JEPs during the afternoon hours and not only, with a specific amendment we allow the mayors to increase the time of overtime every month from twenty to forty hours, where this is, of course, taking place so that the remuneration can also be paid. I think that knowing the great contribution of JEP officials to what our country has been experiencing in recent years, you will all agree that it is necessary for these people to be rewarded. The period of this overtime coverage is incorrectly written in the text of the provision ‘up to 30 May’. It is 'until 31 March'. That is the way it writes in the explanatory statement from the General Accounting Office and, of course, we hope that this possibility will not be extended. However, the correct wording is 'until 31 March'. It will be submitted in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister for Labour, Mr Kostis Hadjidakis, has the floor to support the amendment by a general number 1194 from 18-12022. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak to you about the amendment on coronary sickness permits and the minimum wage in a few months' time. I'm starting with medical permits. I'd like to agree on the basics to see what separates us, if it separates us. First of all, we have two new regulations on permits, in addition to those already in force, with regulations obviously positive for workers. Because whatever view you have, they are new permits, in addition to the existing ones. In fact, it is done through rapid procedures, because the involvement of the ECA is not required, no medical opinion is required, no known information is required. It is only necessary to demonstrate diagnostics. I think we are all agreed on this, regardless of political position. It is a positive step. I'm going further. It is foreseen that in these cases, possibly - and it will be clarified by the spirit and the slap and the joint ministerial decision that will be followed - the worker himself can work for this period, whether he is asymptomatic, for example, or for any reason he decides to do so, he can have a teleworker and receive his remuneration normally. I also assume that we agree with this second one. So we have two agreements so far. I'm moving on to a third parameter. We are now introducing this quick extra leave due to a coronary for workers, for them, according to the health protocols, obviously, which now speak for five days. As the regulation itself says, however, - read the please, because the opposite has been said previously - this licence may be extended in accordance with the general provisions. Because it was said what would happen on the sixth day, the seventh, the eighth, etc. It says it itself that regulation will be done and it is to the benefit of the worker. What do we predict for the five-day? We have anticipated what has been happening for decades. There is compensation for the worker under the general provisions. In other words, as I have been telling you for decades - and this provision has been implemented by all the governments of Transmigration and by New Democracy and by PASOK and by SYRIZA for the first three days - the employer pays them by 50% and the other two days we have a full coverage with the participation of the employer on the one hand and the public on the other. What has been the case for so many decades and I repeat has been implemented by all governments, this is what we are proposing for workers when they are ill. Question: Do you disagree? And if you disagree, why didn't you propose an amendment to change the status quo that exists in Greece, but do you beat the Prime Minister and I because we confirm the fixed arrangement and simply proceed with rapid procedures? I do not want to describe it, but I note it, and I think everyone watching us understands. I am going further: we are setting up a new, extra licence - in addition, this has not been the case so far - for working parents - a five-day period - which can also be extended on the basis of the general provisions. For there are the parental permits that we extended with this law you blame and say, "The Hatzidakis Act, the convinced, the evidence" etc. Parental leave has been widened. There are licenses, caregivers, etc. So the five-day period can be extended. So we set up five days' leave, and what do we anticipate? We also provide for a pro rata of application of the provisions in force in the previous provision. So, what do we say? That three days will pay the employer, as will the previous standard and applied by all the parties that ruled a provision, the fourth will cover it in public and it is only foreseen that the last day will be cleared with the normal employee's permission. That's it. That's the setting. And all this has caused remarks from yesterday, which are nothing more than hypocrisy and psalmism on the part of Anti-Population, as I believe it is. You disagree about the last arrangement, about the parents, and you talk about a reduction when logic is the same as the permanently applicable arrangement. And SYRIZA brings an amendment to the parents whose children have been ill. Okay, you filed it, advertised it. I want to ask you a question. I imagine you'll talk then. So I ask: Since you are so sensitive and, above all, so read, why are you bringing an amendment to extra compensation for parents when they are ill and do not bring an amendment for workers when they are ill? Are they not human beings in this case, do you have rights or are you sensitive on a case-by-case basis? If this thing is not sloppy and hypocrisy, what else is it? What can anyone say about this attitude? I also want an answer from those who from SYRIZA especially, but also from the other parties, to take the floor. Why are you blaming us for applying pro rata to the parents whose children are suffering a certain arrangement, which I have just presented to you, when you have been applying a similar arrangement for years when both PASOK and SYRIZA were running over the last four and a half years? That is, when you apply a regulation is good, but when we bring the same or even proportionally applicable regulation then we are neoliberal and analgesic. Here if you haven't made a gave, for which you must apologize, you are already exposed, because your policy is a classic example of demagogicism and hypocrisy. And I would like to ask you with arguments to prove the opposite, because here I think it is clear that these are new, additional permits granted under more rapid procedures and compensation reflect the established legislation, which - I repeat once again - has been implemented by all governments since post-mortem. These are in relation to permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u136	Just shorten your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u137	And I move on to the second issue concerning minimum wages. The amendment - and I would like to see and how you are placed in it - brings with it a regulation on the basis of which the minimum wage will be determined more quickly as the procedure begins earlier and we have a shorter deadline. The government's intention, as the Prime Minister said, is that, after the end of the process, there should be a significant increase in the minimum wage with a social dividend of growth in workers' pockets. And here - be careful - you will say yours, but the facts will be stubborn. Workers will see these increases in their pockets in a few months' time, and then you will also be judged on your big words and on the social policy that we are implementing in practice. And I will continue on this. So far, despite the pandemic, we have this development in relation to the pay they receive on an annual basis, those who are paid a minimum wage. We have an increase depending on whether or not they have three years on an annual basis due to the reduction of the insurance contributions, individual government tax arrangements and small, symbolic, indeed an increase of 2% allocated last year, precisely because we have had a recession, but last year we have an overall increase in the annual income of those who are paid a minimum wage of EUR 305 up to EUR 533. We are not celebrating for her, but it is something we need to know about speaking with the same facts. But now that the economy has entered a positive soil, it is obvious that we can move in a different way towards the workers. And I do not know whether this is upsetting you because your political myths are being shattered, but here will be the elements that will speak of both the policies that have been implemented in SYRIZA and those that are being implemented with us. And beyond the minimum wage, we have other elements, because at the time you made all these announcements, that the government was abducted, you were, unfortunately, avenged, luck and reality. Because yesterday, incidentally, the data relating to unemployment came out at the same time, and the figures from ELSTAT showed that unemployment, which we received at 17.2% and last November, was 16.1%, this year - now, in November - has fallen to 13.3%, four units in total, three units in the last year. The same findings are made by "ERGANI", which also records an increase in the number of people employed and the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u138	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u139	All this, ladies and gentlemen, has not happened. They were made because of the fiscal, fiscal, licensing, labour and insurance policies of the government. These are the results which have led to these results in relation to unemployment. And be careful, as much as you may be alarmed by the micro-party perception you face, I warn you - and here we will be - that in the next few months, with the same economic policy, unemployment in Greece will be further declining, more jobs will be created. Now, besides that, I would like to remind you that with this government we have an increase in the OAED programmes, an increase of...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, it's a bill! From three minutes to thirteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Scandalidis, I said I'd talk more. It is an amendment, which today is a front page in the newspapers. Now, if you have the duty of the Minister to speak for two minutes on a matter for which you made announcements...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, you were strict before. Now you're not talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u143	I know they're probably upset. I haven't resorted to you, I think, insulting you and in characterizations. What I'm saying is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u144	Fourteen minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u145	Wait a minute, Minister. I understand that time has passed. There's one particular thing about this amendment, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u146	But, sixteen minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u147	You will be given time to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u148	But I'm short, anyway. What I want to tell you is that while SYRIZA has made programmes for for forty thousand jobs in four years, we have made programmes in a year and a half for fifty thousand jobs from the OAED, and now, in 2022, will be coming out of programmes for eighty-six thousand new jobs. And I do not account for this special programme of the Ministry for Youth and also for the insurance contributions. These will create about another eighty-five thousand jobs. And of course I add the most massive training program for workers and unemployed, which will start very soon...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u149	Will you tell us the whole program of the ministerial work?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u150	I should also like to mention the EUR 9 billion granted during the pandemic by the Ministry of Labour only for three million workers and the unemployed. This is the situation, that is the reality, and I would ask you not to go along with pragmatic approaches and with great words and slogans, but to question even one element of what I have presented. The difference between us, do you know what it is? That you keep talking with slogans and a wooden language, while we answer you with works on the field. We do social policy in practice. So both for disease leave and minimum wages, we give you the monopoly of sensitivity, we give you the political plays and we hold political responsibility and a political approach with the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. Please stay in the Chamber, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u152	A political comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u153	All right, there was a specific amendment, so time will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u155	Well, from the point of view of SYRIZA some clarifications are needed and Mr Haritsis as a parliamentary representative has authorised Ms Xinoyannakopoulou. One of the two will take the floor. Because here the only one who is entitled to protest on this point is only the President, Mr Varoufakis. And yet he's patiently waiting. The clarifications will be given before the Minister speaks. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u156	When do you plan me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u157	All of you will take the floor. Please only for clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u158	I would like to say a few words, but I would like to say a comment to you first.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u159	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou - listen to me for half a minute - to say it personally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u160	When the Minister speaks a quarter of the amendment, we must be able to raise matters. It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u161	You'll talk! But I'm telling you, you're gonna talk, but I'm just...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u162	Interventions are made by the Ministers. I will not wait for the parliamentary representatives right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, it is for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u164	I was very much waiting for my turn and I will be waiting because another minister has asked for a small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u165	Clarifications, Mr
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u166	But I won't expect this cockfight between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u167	From the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, we ask the ministers questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u168	This is a practice, Mr President, which needs to be clarified. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, please clarify, not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u169	I'm not going to make any speech, it's a clarification. Two points to Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u170	The speeches when your turn comes, you will react, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u171	Yeah, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u172	Now only clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u173	Mr Hatzidakis told us that it was by analogy with the rules that he brought for workers parents who have children positive to the coronary and asked for evidence. The evidence, Mr Hatzidakis, is that you opened the schools and now there are forty thousand positive schoolchildren and you do not understand that for two years there has been a pandemic, that it is an emergency for the country. That's the perception of your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, the procedure must be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, please do not interrupt my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, please protect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u177	The procedure is that Mr. Hatzidakis has to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u178	I'm not listening to this cockfight!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u179	You cannot, Mr President, describe the precise questions as 'fighting'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I said you were right. Please understand for a minute. However, you are right, Mr President. Please understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to conclude my speech. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u182	Good, yeah, but you're talking now. Ask yourself, clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u183	That is a clear question in the amendment. You ask: Mr. Hatzidakis, when you come to apply...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Haritsis was abusive to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u185	I would have finished it, Mr President, so long as it was cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u186	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u187	Mr Hatzidakis, when you say that you are applying the standard rules in proportion and you are choosing this for the workers who are suffering their children with COVID, the question to you is: Have you and the Mitsotakis Government not realised that we are in an emergency situation of pandemic, that at present you are punishing the working parents with a reduction in wages, when the evidence is already saying that the purchasing power of the average wage has decreased by 14% - and is the Minister of Development here - and you do nothing about the accuracy and care of the purchasing power of wages? And now you come to hurt the working parents? So that's your idea?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u188	It's not a clear question, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou. You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u189	I know, I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u190	You mislead the Bureau of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u191	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, I think you're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u192	Mr. President, excuse me. If anyone's inadmissible, you're the ones who didn't leave...(doesn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u193	You were given the floor by Mr. Haritsi, but not that!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u194	I am very sorry, Mr Hatzidakis, that we have tabled an amendment, and we challenge you to assume your responsibilities and accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u195	Minister, if you want a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u196	I don't understand! Why would the Minister answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, you are right, but that is the practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u198	He spoke sixteen minutes while he had two or three. And then you come to give the floor to the Parliamentary Representatives!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u199	So should we bring him back later?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u200	Will you give the floor to the parliamentary representatives of other parties, too, to ask for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u201	Only those who have clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u202	You asked me before if I had trouble giving my place. I said I don't have anyone, but I don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I would like to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u204	If you keep going, I'll just leave. That's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u205	No, Mr President, we will give you the floor, but we must...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u206	The Minister spoke again and answered my colleague. It came kindly and asked me - I do not remember your name, Mr Colleague - for the right to speak before me and I said yes to you. I did not give anyone the right to a new quarrel between Ministers and Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u207	Let me tell you. You are right and you are always sympathetic to these arrangements, and I understand that and you are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u208	And you're taking advantage of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u209	No, I didn't take advantage of it. Just practice is when an amendment comes to enable all rapporteurs and Members to be informed, to ask for clarification but one from each party. Mr. Haritsis could and said that Mrs. Xinogiannakopoulou could develop it. Good. All right, let go. The Minister will now answer in a minute and then I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u210	You will not give me the floor because I have agreed with another minister to lead. By courtesy...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u211	Good. If you want, you'll talk. Mr. Hatzidakis, would you like to answer Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u212	I gave kindness before, I gave it...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u213	Then we should bring the Minister back this afternoon to give you clarification if this is the case. Don't overreact now. Do you need any clarification on Ms. Xenonanakopoulou, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u214	Answer, Minister, I have no problem. But no more Parliamentary representatives!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u215	Please give clarification to the main theme of the amendment and do not answer the position in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u216	My answer will be very brief and I want to believe that it is clear. Does anyone here argue that the standard provision for employee compensation is the one we have brought for the workers? One question. It's the fixed one.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Catatotis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u218	And secondly, why does SYRIZA specifically bring an amendment to workers when they have children and want to improve the status quo, when their children are ill, and when they are ill, does it not bring such an arrangement? That's what it looks like in a skull to SYRIZA. Does it show political confusion or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u219	So the clarifications are over. Mr Secretary-General, you have the floor to support the amendment under a general number 1192 and a special 107 from 18-1-2022. Here, you have the floor and please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment, under general number 1192 and special 107, follows on from the efforts made by the Government to strengthen the function of Greece's permanent delegation to the European Union. The proposed provision enables the permanent delegation of Greece to be placed as Head of the Permanent Representation of Greece in the European Union, i.e. in a position of increased responsibility, of public administration officials who, although they have the necessary qualifications and experience, cannot be reassigned to the permanent delegation because of the completion of a six-year service. A prerequisite for the possibility of a new term of office shall be eight years from the end of the previous term of office. In this way we regulate two issues: Firstly, we harmonise the framework with the provisions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own law already in force for the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As an example, L.4781 of 2021, to which this amendment will be included if it is voted on, provides that officials of the diplomatic sector, other than those of an ambassador, are not transferred to the city that they have already served if it is not eight years since they moved from it. Secondly, we acquire the possibility of using executives with specialised knowledge and increased experience in positions of responsibility that can effectively contribute to the coordination and representation of our country in the Union institutions. At the same time, the amendment provides for the establishment of an independent management office for a sectoral development programme at the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, I should like to inform you that the proposed provisions do not give rise to any additional burden on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor now. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you both for the courtesy and for the understanding you have shown. Otherwise, you're right. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years have not been said. Mr. Hatzidakis, I was glad you spoke before me, because I heard you talk about the minimum wage procedure. You said it would be fast, that it's a process etc. You will allow me to tell you on behalf of Mera25 that we consider it unacceptable that there is a procedure. There should be no procedure at all to determine the minimum wage. We live in the digital age, and if you were really interested in not reducing the purchase value of the income of people living with the minimum wage, there is a way of automatic indexation on the basis of a basket of goods and services that ELSTAT people know. If they wanted, they could have a special indicator of what the average worker living with the minimum wage is, what the automatic indexing of these goods, of this good and automatically every month - in the digital age we are living! - is to increase the minimum wage. You said two things, Mr. Hatzidakis. You said about the process and that they'd get, he says, a social development dividend. But growth is negative, the fund is minus. We have a primary deficit, don't we? We'll have a fund balance at some point. But the fund is minus. Tell me, how much is GDP today? In December 2019, Mr. Stakoras told us in the budget that it was 187 billion. Today how much is it? I'm telling you it's less. Where did you see the social dividend? The social dividend is negative. So basically when you say that they will get from the social dividend of growth and growth is negative, you too admit that at least the purchase value of the minimum wage will be reduced. And with regard to the procedure you say, what is this procedure? If you really want the purchase value of the minimum wage not to be reduced, you will automatically do so. The fact that you don't do it automatically, do you know what it means? It means one thing. That you calculate which part of the loss of the market value of the minimum wage will be compensated. Tell me you, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Georgiadis, this: In the supermarkets since December 2019, since January 2020, what increased prices have we had in the basic goods bought by a worker living at the minimum wage? Was that what ELSTAT says? I'm telling you it wasn't that. And you don't believe, for example, that throughout 2021 we had 1.2% inflation in the basket of goods and services purchased by the man who lives at the minimum wage. You know it's closest to 25% to 30%, at least from the beginning of 2020. So when you say about 6% and 8% and 10%, the process you describe is the process of deciding how much the purchase value of the minimum wage will be lost by the workers. That's what you're doing! You also spoke about unemployment. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Hatzidakis, is OAED lying? Because the number of OAS enrolled is not at ELSTAT levels. For the first time in the history of macroeconomic statistics on the labour market in Greece since 2018, on SYRIZA, we have the OAED to declare that it has more unemployed, whom it serves, than ELSTAT says they exist. So decide: Or OAS says it gives unemployment benefits to people who shouldn't be taken or ELSTAT is lying. I'm telling you that ELSTAT has been lying that suits you, as SYRIZA was before, since 2018. But let me come to the current bill for the Competition Committee. At the beginning of 2022, citizens enter the new constellation of the new austerity, because that is the accuracy. We have been talking from the outset about the Competition Committee as one of the great sins of the Greek state. Take the supermarkets I referred to before. Mr Georgiadis, Mr Hatzidakis, I would like you to tell me honestly by putting your hand in the heart: do you not agree with us, with Mera25, that the increase in average prices in supermarkets is greater than the increase in average costs of wholesale goods in supermarkets? Because for us this is absolutely clear. There's a big increase in the price-cost difference of supermarkets. And you know what? This should not be a matter of political disagreement within the House. If we had a serious ELSTAT, we would also have serious data on this 'price-cost margin', the profit margin of supermarkets. We know that the supermarkets in Greece work as a trissatholic profiting cartel. We know that we are the only country that if you are a cheese producer or producer of any kind and you go to sell your business through the supermarket, the supermarket has the right to impose on Greece - Listen, listen! - to pay the supermarket cost of advertising your cheese in the supermarket. Not give you the chance, but impose it on you! This is a monopolistic practice that should be ringing bells on any serious competition committee! However, there is no serious competition committee. So when we at Mera25 found out you were bringing a bill for the Competition Committee, we said to see what you're going to bring. And what did you bring? Nothing, absolute zero! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You brought in - listen, listen! - an order to make, says, complaints from customers in the supermarkets. Instead of automatically prosecuting supermarkets that abuse their cartel monopolistic position, you're talking about a complaint procedure. The other thing you're doing is talking about competition on the railroads. Okay, here really if it wasn't that tragic, we'd laugh! You're not telling me, do you think there could ever be competition on the railroads? This will only be done if you build ten tracks, one next to the other and ten train stations and we have ten trains and we choose each other. Build ten bridges in every valley! Now that the election period is coming, it's a good idea for you! You tell them we'll make you ten bridges and ten rivers to pass! There's no chance of competition when you have a line, a station. Who's taking the route that starts at eight in the morning, which is all the money, and goes downtown? He's got the monopoly at the time. You will tell me: 'We will do it with a stock exchange, which will simulate competition'. Yeah, just like you did with the energy stock exchange, which we see the result. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] When you have a network, it's either electric, it's rail, or it's water, you have a monopoly. And when it's private, it's a cartel, it's over, it's over. And proof? What's happening on the electricity market today. During 2021 the official data of the Energy Regulatory Authority tell us that the average cost of the megabare in Germany was EUR 97,5, in Italy was 100.4 and in our Greece 119. The richest country with the most expensive electricity! What are we talking about? We say to the small and medium-sized enterprises: "You will pay 20% more than your current, while the German small and medium-sized enterprises have 19% VAT and you have 24% VAT". So you do this in a country if you want to drown it, you make small and medium-sized ones pay higher current and higher VAT. This is the European Union that we have today. In other words, we are talking about Union, convergence and so on. What convergence? We have an increasing divergence in our countries within the European Union, with the current at the moment playing the role of the Trojan horse in a new collapse. There are companies today - you know it well - and from your place - new democrats tell me these, small and medium-sized people, people who have not been able to survive since 2010, have no debt and now go down because of PPC tariffs. Look, don't come back and tell us that the cost is rising. We know it increases costs. We have eyes, we read the international press, we see the BLOOMBERG and we see very well that there really is a great increase in energy costs, especially in natural gas, in which unfortunately, due to bad choices of the past, we have put all our eggs in the course of liberation. But what I said before about the supermarkets, I'm going to tell the nickname on energy. And here we have RAE's own evidence. Take November and December, don't go too long, in December that passed us and in November that passed us. In November we had an increase in the price of the megabarate from EUR 229, which was the wholesale, at a retail price of 296, a profit margin of 29%. In December, when natural gas and retail went further to 317, the profit rate increased from 29% to 33%, from November to December. This is the energy stock exchange created by SYRIZA, which you are currently continuing to do. It's a heated gas cartel behind this story. There is no energy stock exchange, there is no competition, but a three-private cartel and PPC together, which is now private. In what other country, tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Ministers, in what other country in the world, in which other industry do you know the losses of producers being paid by consumers? Has that happened before? Currently the electricity that is being lost due to leakage, due to theft, is paid 100% by consumers. It is within the system, as it has been created in previous years, as it was in SYRIZA, as it is today. The way you go, ladies and gentlemen of the government, citizens will come out in the balconies, greet the brave pilots of the Rafahs, bringing PPC's accounts up, that's where they'll end up. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] We say 'no' to the cartel state subsidy. What are you doing? You borrow money from the troika - for this is what you do, every bond you take out is bought by the European Central Bank - so you get the money from the Greek people, which is borrowed and loaded with the next generation, to subsidise the cartel. We say to break the cartel, we say dismantle the energy stock, we say to abolish the unacceptable, irrational invoicing of electricity at the base, not the average cost, but at the basis of marginal costs, and we say, once it is a monopoly, that it needs to be rationalised. These so-called competition you will simulate, whether on the railways or in the water, or in the current, are the stories of Halima. Nationalisation is the only solution for natural monopolies. Speaking of what kind of humor, I referred to the Rafah, ladies and gentlemen of the government, since you will not use them, how, with what right do you ask the Greek people to glorify you for paying them? And why won't you use them? Because no Greek government dares to move without Washington's OK. We've said that before, we'll see each other again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is money for Rafael, for cartels, for FRAPORT, then there is money for the ICMs, which we do not have, and that is why we lament people who could have been saved. And ask the ICU people, like Mr. Kapravello from Thessaloniki, to tell you that. And it's not just that you're not spending on CFD. Even what we have built from the fallout of the Greek people in the decades that have also been pre-war, such as the Penteli Children's Hospital, a jewel. We can't fix this again. We've invested huge human capital as a society. That's what you're going to do to remove it and make it a vaccination center. If that's possible! Just to close it. From the very first moment on, we have supported the lockdowns, and we also support vaccination. What were we talking about? Build a public network of many, a thousand mass test centres, which we do not have and then become vaccination centres outside the hospitals. You can't increase the viral load in a hospital, inviting citizens to go into hospitals to be vaccinated when you can get them out. And this network of mass testing and vaccination centres would be the ideal dowry for the National Health System, it would be the future primary network, which we all say needs the National Health System. But you don't do that. Convert the "Children" of Penteli into a vaccination centre to close it. You've got a delivery. Mr. Georgiadis here was very proud that he closed hospitals in 2012 and did not expect the troika to close them. Now Mr. Ploris, his likeness, comes to follow the path Mr. Georgiadis has drawn. It is a street of dystopic, a road that the only benefiting are the private clinical leaders, to whom you send all these children and their parents, from the "Pedestrians" Pentelis, to win the clinical authorities at the expense of health and the wallet. Because in the end this health privatisation - because that is, it is a de facto privatization of health under the pretext of converting them into vaccination centres - is a part of the new austerity, which comes along with the accuracy of electricity to shake down what is left of popular incomes. You constantly trip through development opportunities, fall, rise, dust and ignore them as if nothing had happened. You had so many opportunities through the pandemic. The European Union has said to you: 'Get out for health'. You didn't do it to support the National Health System. Let us go to another issue, but it is relative in terms of growth, or rather what we have, systematic underdevelopment. Did you remember, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Hatzidakis, that we were talking here about EastMed, first brought by Mr. Tsipras with the hugs of Mr. Netanyahu? Then you kept coming here, celebrating that Greece is becoming an energy hub, that we will make minings from Itooannina to Israel, we will have a pipeline from EastMed and so on. What was the only party in this Parliament that said three things? EastMed won't be, because he's uneconomical. It must not be done, because it is anti-environmental and we will not be allowed to be made by the United States, because it is competitive with the LNG that they want to bring from Texas. Mera25 said it. Unfortunately or happily - thankfully, I would say - we are right. EastMed won't be done, but that's what I said before. You are heading this way of black and spider underdevelopment. It's like what you promise the Greek people, when you talked to him about mining in either the Aegean, whether in the Ionian Sea, or in the Ionian Sea, or in the Ionian Sea, or in Epirus. What you promised him was that you were going to win last war. We lost this train in the industrial revolution on the basis of fossil fuels. The point is not to miss the next - we have been telling you for two years in this Parliament - of the green industrial revolution. Do you remember that we were telling you about floating wind turbines that wouldn't spoil our mountain peaks and islands, that local communities would not be told to rise up against renewable energy sources? Do you remember where we told you? Well, I have some news for you. I do not know if you read 'FINANCIAL TIMES'. Last Monday, Mr Georgiadis, there was an invitation to tender in Edinburgh from the Scottish Government. The Scottish government, not Britain, received £700 million, about EUR 1 billion. It has called the sea areas of Scotland, which will produce twenty-five gygawatts, which is 110% of Britain's total need, not Scotland, in electricity, of which thirteen gygawatts only floating wind turbines. It's what we were talking about here, Mera25. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Seventy companies received these rights, including the ‘BRITH PETROLEUM’, the ‘SHELL’, the ‘SE’, the Spanish ‘IBERDROLA’, the Swedish ‘VATTENFALL’ and many others. EUR 70 billion more than the 700 million that the Scottish Government will receive, of which EUR 40 billion will reinforce local societies multiplierly, with the aim of producing hydrogen, which we in Mera25 have been saying for two years that the production of green hydrogen wind turbines should be the orientation of Greece, so that we can become a real green energy centre, not what you say, with the mining and EastMed, which you have finally seen as being completely unfavourable. All they did was give Erdogan reasons to increase tensions in the Aegean. What do you have to show in this area? A peculiar tab, small cartel between your favorite "MOTOROLA" and privatized PPC, which says they will make a small amount of green hydrogen. I wish they could fix it. Compare what you do or do not do with what is happening in Scotland today. Ladies and gentlemen, to close badly lies here, there is no development model in this country. Mr. Georgiadis, Minister for 'Support' you are. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You have no planning for how Greece will become a green energy centre. Let me say that all you say and say again, each Minister, your every Minister, every journalist on the Pecha list, the only thing you say to prove that everything is going on in a sense, what is it? What's the one you have to show? Don't talk about growth. Tell me how much GDP is today compared to what you told us in December 2019 that it was. It's less, isn't it? But the debt is at least 60 billion, if you put the 40 billion bonds and all the others that you have borrowed, the 23 billion HRAKLES or what you are asked to incorporate, you will sometime join the debt. We have an outsourcing of the debt in the heavenly and we have a substantially established GDP at the level of the period 2014-2018. This is the situation in that country. All you have to say is we borrow cheaply. You issued a bond yesterday and the friend triumphantly triumphed to you, the press that broke the stockbrokers' dial from the offers. Indeed, they fell upstairs to buy your counterpart. Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Georgiadis, obviously, feel that this is excellent. It shows that there is confidence in the Greek debt. Nonsense, Mr. Hatzidakis! Nonsense, Mr. Georgiades! There's no trust at all. They know very well that our state is bankrupt. You're gonna tell me: Why are they buying it? Because it's very simple. Mrs. Lagard closes their eyes. What's closing their eyes? Preffers does. In an interview with the House, he says that by 2024 they won't buy. Think: You are the best clients of speculators. Why? Because we are bankrupt, we have spread with the German bond 1.8%-1.9%, i.e. they get something by buying a Greek bond instead of the German bond. At the same time, they don't have any market risks when Lagard tells them she'll buy it. Indeed, you know very well that they have taken 40 billion bonds, all that you have printed and transferred to the digital drawers of the European Central Bank. You'll tell me: Yes, won't they keep doing that? No, they won't keep doing that. At some point these music chairs will stop and we, you, our people will basically stay without the chair to sit. And you know that very well. But even continue to do so - even though they continue to do so - what is the poisonous dependence that has been built for two, three, four years in this country? The one good thing the crisis had and started in 2014 and continued in 2015 and a little early in 2016, is that it wiped out the deficit in the current account balance. In other words, the country lived on its own strengths. Whatever we have exported in dollars, in euros, in foreign currency, we have imported it. For the first time in a long time we had balanced the current account. Today is -7%. In other words, as long as the European Central Bank lends us, through the quantitative relaxation that you secured until 2024, the private sector of Greece and not the poor - we know who they are, but it doesn't matter - is constantly living with credit from Europe's private financial sector worldwide. In other words, it's like we haven't learned anything since 2010. It is like having Mr Simitis here talking to us about Greece in the hard core of the euro, when we knew very well that everything was in sea loans. It's like we have Mr. Horse Skuffy here just before the 2008 Crash telling us that it's armored by the Greek economy, they don't go drowning by the Americans. Let's have a problem. We're armored. Uh, we weren't armored and we weren't armored. Dependence and underdevelopment: This will leave behind when you leave the government black night. Unfortunately, once again the Greek people will pay. Once again a Memorandum Government, which has no plan for this country. Her only plan is debt and dry bread. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. We will give the floor to Mr Evangelos Apostleu from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u224	When am I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Scandalides, from what I see here, in the notes, you are after Mr. Voloudakis. That's where they've placed you. I don't know what happened with the previous President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u226	I was after Mr. Katsotis. The Ministers have intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u227	Now we're on our way. We're on the speaker list again. I don't know the consensual. If you want, and if there's no problem, we should listen to Mr. Apostle, because I called him at the Step and then I should give you the floor. You are also a parliamentary representative. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u229	Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u230	Mr Apostle, your parliamentary representative has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, because I do not know if you were informed by your predecessor in the position of President-in-Office, because there was one problem before. After Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Scandalidis had indeed asked for the floor, which will obviously speak after Mr. Apostolos. What is unresolved is to comment on the amendment we have not been able to accept, the amendment by the Ministry of Labour, Mr Hatzidakis. I'm not saying it needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u232	Listen, Mr. Haritsi. To put them in a row...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u233	I'm saying this to get in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u234	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u235	I'm talking about Mr. Scandalidis. I am not asking for the floor now. Don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u236	I have no reason to doubt what you're saying. I explained to Mr. Scandalides what I found. There is no question after Mr Apostleus to give you the floor. But before Mr Apostle, as you can see in the situation of speakers, he was another speaker from New Democracy who was not in the Chamber and I did not express him with courtesy and only to avoid his name being heard. The second was that before the spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Skylakakis had asked for the floor to develop the Ministry of Finance's amendment for a three-minute period. So I called in Stepma, Mr. Apostleu. Then we'll put them in a row. We will give the floor to the Minister for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u237	I was here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u238	Wait a minute, please. I didn't give you the floor. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u239	I ask you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u240	Please, you don't sound. Let's get together, Mr. Scandalides. Do you insist that I give you the floor after Mr. Apostleus, and then Mr. Psilakakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u242	Minister, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u243	I'll talk for two minutes, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u244	Hey, what can I tell you now? Can't we get to know each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I think that having so much time in the Chamber, you have called me to speak at some point. If I'm creating such a big problem, because a congressman is finally taking the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Apostle, no one mentioned you. Let's set a row. What can we do now? Mr. Scandalidis, I'm going to give Mr. Dogman the floor and then you. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise to my fellow Members if I created a problem for them. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about competition, and unfortunately what is dominating this House, especially on your part, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is that on your part there are no actions aimed at better consumer prices. What is the Greek citizen now experiencing according to ELSTAT's figures for December? A manoeuvring, 5.1% in a climate of uncertainty and concern for the next day, both for the pandemic and the economy. The problem for the wage earner of EUR 500 and the pensioner of EUR 360 becomes devastating, particularly when it comes to electricity, diesel and heating, gas. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, there is a wave of dishonesty in the Greek market that will cause great disturbance to the daily lives of these people. That is why it is necessary - and I stress this - to take measures. SYRIZA has tabled his proposals that can be implemented immediately. I mention traits. Firstly, a direct increase in the minimum wage to EUR 800 to protect the available income and stimulate consumption. It followed 2% of the Prime Minister's announcement that was treated as a stifling, in which Mr Mitsotakis reacted with a communication handling, a new increase - he says - in May. That was the case a moment ago by the Minister for Labour. But the situation is tragic and requires immediate action now and not in a few months' time. Now you need to react. Secondly, a reduction in excise duty on heating, driving and petrol at the lowest permitted European level. We have tabled an amendment to this effect for a long time. Thirdly, a reduction in PPC's tariffs, so that it also brings private providers together and, of course, exhaustive checks by the Competition Committee. In the process of processing the bill in the Committee on Production and Trade we expected to hear the proposals of your Government. That's not what happened. On the contrary, the inability to protect the populace from repeated price increases and the escalation of the cost of life has now become apparent. Furthermore, the disagreement and inconsistency of government officials to deal with the problem has been felt. Your Ministers seem to be unable to reach agreement and communicate with each other, so that they can identify each other on a daily basis through their statements. The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis, approaches the solution to the problem in the opposite direction to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Stakoura, and gives a key role to the Competition Committee. On the contrary, the President of the Competition Committee, Mr Liannos, in committee, blamed other relevant bodies. He even argued that the committee is active in anti-cohesion and that it is competent to intervene when a price is increased only - and I stress this - if this increase is a 'hearted' partnership product or if there is an excessive price, which, of course, is set by companies which have a dominant position on the market, substantially revising what Mr Lianeos said in an interview and what was announced in a committee press release. But, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomena of cartel and oligopoly are living and reigning in Greek reality and especially in Greek supermarkets which have the highest percentage of profits in Europe. The extortion that they achieve to their suppliers, farmers and producers, to sell them at prices below cost and with six months credit, while at the same time consumers pay at over-burden and cash prices, is part of the Greek reality. Unfortunately, the truth is here and the main issue is that the poorest citizens are affected. According to a survey published by the Greek General Confederation of Workers and the Institute of Labour, 82% of the employees state that the monthly burden on their households of increases in energy prices and basic food prices is expected to be very large or large, with only 14% of them being appreciated as small or very small. These rates, of course, differ when compared to the level of their income. Workers, for example, who have a monthly fee of up to EUR 500 say they expect a very heavy burden, while only 19% of those who declare a monthly fee of EUR 1,500 and above say that they expect a very heavy burden. Unfortunately, the government is bound to be passively confined to the continuing price rises of Greek products. It lets the market regulate itself when it is clear that things are out of control combined with the launching of energy costs. Not only does it take steps to reduce prices, but it does not go any further in controls to deal with the scourge of speculation. You drive, gentlemen of the government, the country once again, through accuracy and through the tragic management of the pandemic, to destruction. That's enough. The Greek people have suffered a great deal since your administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u248	We will give the floor now to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Dogaki, for the amendment. And immediately will the parliamentary representative of KINAL, Mr Scandalides, take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dogfish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Let me turn directly to the subject of our amendment, and then you will allow me to speak to the previous speaker, because he raised the issue of the Ministry of Finance. The amendment has two articles I want to defend. One is to strengthen subsidiary capital. In fact, it is an extension of aid granted once in 2016 and once in 2018. And it is necessary to extend until the end of 2023 to ensure the protection of ancillary capital and to ensure the planning of third-party requirements. The second article concerns something that I am sure we will all agree, which is the extension of the checks that we have already voted on for Northern Evia. I think it is a technical amendment that we all agree. As far as the accuracy is concerned, we have to bear in mind the following. At the moment the accuracy is mainly imported. Every 10 euros to increase gas at international price - and the increase was from 15 to 20 euros, which was in the pre-war period, is now 70, and at some point it went to 150 - it costs us as an economy of 600 million euros! When international fares grow, we earn as shipping something, but it costs us all the imported. When we have a crisis in the cereals that we import, this crisis is being transported to the economy. These increases in international prices will be paid either in one way or another. There's no magical way you won't pay the increased gas. You can invest in the RES in "Security", things we do, but you will pay for them in the short term. And we're trying to ease this payment and mitigate the burden on vulnerable consumers, but the possibility that in a magic way someone will come over and give us some billion more so that there is no impact, is zero. Anyone who thinks he has found the magic carpet that carries money to the Greek economy doesn't have a sense of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u250	Good. Parliamentary spokesman for KINAL Mr Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, a question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u252	Question, if he wishes, your parliamentary representative. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is really sad to live in this Chamber and to withstand this type of political dialogue that we have followed since the beginning of the meeting, and especially at the top of it, in the new clotspatina, between Mr Polakis and the government. And it is very regrettable that Parliament is losing the essence of its operation, which is in the context of civilised dialogue, to give answers and solutions to the major problems of the country. And since the confrontation took place for the pandemic, we must say clearly that there can be no competition for who is most charged with failure. The main responsibility for implementing policy lies with the government, which is obviously charged with much of the failure. And it is not the continuing bilingualism and populism of SYRIZA, who actually leads to press controversy because he avoided the last place, because Paulakis came! Why did he win the first place? Because there wasn't Paulakis! No, that's not the case. Things are completely different. And the main criticism to be made is that, if the government really believed that it could meet the problem, it would have foreseen strengthening the ESS, health structures and planning at primary level in such a way as to make resources available - both resources - to provide benefits from there and from there, many resources available, billions - multiple resources for the ESS and not come after the end and failure of the last programme to say that "I will strengthen the ESS and make a new spatial planning" and all these things at the time so many people die every day! This is the essence of the situation and no Paulakis changes it, no procedure. We must therefore make it clear that we cannot, on people who are losing their lives and on the families who live the drama, be locked up for so many months and cannot be released, speak in this way and in this political dialogue with regard to this society that is perpetrated by this pandemic. That is the first point. The second point concerns the amendment relating to labour. We disagree with Article 2 of the amendment, as the government confuses 3 to 2 and substantially changes Article 16 of Law No4722/2020. We do not understand what you are doing with your amendment. What's her essence? There are low-wage wages in the limits of survival. Do you understand what it means to cut two portions of their slimy wages? And finally stop at every opportunity to divide Greek citizens into two categories, others public, other private employees. You are today condemning private people with the greatest problems and who are the most vulnerable in the population. We have tabled, tabled an amendment and restored this enormous injustice. We anticipate full pay for the five days and full insurance cover. We suggest you accept its content if you have a minimum trace of social sensitivity. I would also like to make a political remark on this because it seems to me that your position is provocative. You have announced that in the second half you will complete the increase after 2%, which, of course, was depleted before it was even paid. I'm tempted to ask you, is this part of your election plan? It gives me the impression of delimiting the dates that you have rushed to bring it faster for this process. But these are semi-meters. They don't respond to the agony. They took 2%, and before they collected it, it's evaporated. They can't make sense of your own, of an election tactic. To agree, you keep talking about returning to normality. And all the budget you supported in returning to normality. That's your budget. What would it mean on this subject, which is the first, the critical, the most neuroalguy, a return to normality? It's very simple. It is the minimum wage of the last collective agreement when we had regularity, which is the 751 euros, which you can give now. I am not saying what Mr Varoufakis says about indexation. These things are not easy in such an economy. Give it now and start collective negotiations between the social partners, because everyone accepts them in collective bargaining, so that it can be shaped afterwards. There is also a relevant proposal from the GFCM in line with this general direction, which actually brings the wages after collective bargaining to EUR 809. I'm not saying that either. I now say the last collective agreement on regularity, namely the EUR 751 and the immediate start of collective bargaining, so that the social partners can determine the corresponding amount. And I would do it with a law and an article, as SYRIZA would say. This is the only way you refuse to follow and play pre-election games with the income of low wages. Now, I want to say a few words about the bill. First of all, Mr Georgiadis, there are two bills. It's one we're talking about now and one you bring next week or whenever he comes. They're both for growth. You could agree to bring it into a bill. You didn't have to have two separate conversations, on a procedure like this, come two bills behind each other in two or three days. In any case, that is not the main thing. For this particular bill concerning ratification, the Apostle Panas and those who spoke from us and in committee and in plenary, they were placed in detail. I won't do it now. It is not of great importance, because it is a useful bill in general, but it does not solve the problem of substance, because the competition problem in the Greek market falls within the structure of the Greek economy and also relates to the functioning of the Competition Committee, which is not just regulated by legislation. It depends on its powers, on its policy, on the persons who manage it and the results it has in the context of market control. These issues are not solved by this bill. It solves some individual. That is why we are voting in principle. On this occasion, however, it is clear that competition rules do not apply in the same way in Greece, as in other countries of the European Union. There are policies and these policies are aimed at different structures of the economy. For example, the structure of the Greek economy, the structure of production has a number of relatively large businesses and a huge range of small and medium-sized enterprises. Where the policy of making resources and investments does not allow those who add value to production, which is the vast majority of medium-sized enterprises, it does not allow these enterprises to give a pulse and oxygen to the Greek economy. Where the available income of enterprises lies under the scheme of certain benefits, which are not linked to specific productive objectives and to specific criteria, it is clear that there is no development model that can provide the modernisation of enterprises, good distribution of resources, increase the available income and also enable businesses to create added value in the Greek economy. There is no productive restructuring without such a change in the structure and functioning of the development process. There's no growth. Growth can be quantitative, it can be with indicators, it can be GDP rise, we can have discussions for hours and days on its macro-economic sizes, but in its real growth reserves and in the real wealth it produces, your policy is not helping. You don't have a development strategy. In conclusion, I can only talk about the Prime Minister's institutional problem which allowed the signing of the New Democracy to take place at this point. This is not an unfortunate moment. My opinion is that it is a installed mentality, a paradoxical segregation that is not worthy of a government that wants to be called progressive and modernistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u254	I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u255	It is not possible for every speaker to have the Minister intervened. And you haven't done your speech so far, if I understand. You have the floor for a minute strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u256	I'm gonna need less. I just want to say about colleagues and Mr Scandalidis that what he has heard is wrong. We could not bring the ratification of a directive together with the other bills as the Ministry of Development. That's never happened. So they're coming separately, Mr. Comrade. However, it is much better for Parliament to see that the bills come as many as three, so that Parliament has all the time to look at them in depth in the committees, that the Members of Parliament have to carry out them as they should, rather than put them all together in a multi-legislative draft like the past, which, in my opinion, puts the parliamentary level very much down. I'm totally opposed to what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u257	Okay. Mr Haritsis, for two minutes you have asked for the floor in relation to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u258	I would like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u259	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u260	A very fast comment on what Mr Skylakakis, the Deputy Minister of Finance, said before, in relation to the external crisis. He specifically referred to energy. Obviously there are exogenous factors. No one refuses that. But see what the Commission report, published only yesterday, says about the question of the accuracy of energy. So what does it say? That gas consumption in the European Union fell by 10% in the third quarter of 2021, while in our country it increased by 12%. It also says that the amount of gas produced electricity fell half in the Netherlands and 46% in France. In Greece it rose by 24%. What does that mean, practically? It means that in recent years and under the responsibility of the government, the way in which the energy mix and gas have changed is now dominating, has led to the launch of the prices currently paid by households and businesses. Mr President, we must make a comment as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in its amendment and on what the Minister for Labour said in his 16-minute speech, Mr Hatzidakis. Look at you, Mr. President. It is not possible after this amendment that a competent Minister should come here and ask us for the change. To tell us that we must apologise. It is shameful that this amendment has been tabled to the Greek Parliament. It's embarrassing that in these circumstances he tells us to file evidence. The element is one. It's the pandemic. I heard him five times talking about fixed legislation, about fixed provisions. We are not in constant conditions or at a constant juncture. We are in a pandemic period. We are at a time when there should be exceptional support measures for workers, support for households, support for families. It is not only the pandemic emergency that the government can remember when it speaks, and when it makes arrangements for direct assignments. So here we have an amendment that is'reversible'. We also heard this incredible setback with normal permission. What netting? We know what will happen. Parents, who are punished for having experienced their children, will be forced to take their normal leave. That's what's gonna happen. We are asking for this amendment to be withdrawn at the last minute. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has tabled an integrated amendment, an integrated parliamentary intervention which restores the possibility for private and public-sector parents to obtain the self-evident permission they need when their children are diagnosed with COVID, so that they can be at home and take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u261	We continue with the list of speakers. We invite Mr Ioannis - Michael Loverdos from New Democracy to Stepma. Mr. Dimitris Kouvelas will be followed. Then we will give the floor to the amendment to the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras, for an article in the amendment number 1190. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to Stepma today with a heavy heart because it is 15.00 and we are talking - it is supposedly a very important bill, which is the ratification of a European directive, so that more powers and powers are given to the Competition Committee to keep the economy as alive as possible in our country. Competition is the heart of the free economy and without competition there cannot be a free, healthy market economy. Instead of discussing this, I see that we are talking about very different issues, above all about government management of the pandemic. I see, too, that every year a great complaint has been made which I have years before I am elected a Member: the parliamentary debate is downgrading. I see the Ministers, the Parliamentary Representatives - Mr Scandalidis was an exception, spoke in his time - the political leaders talk whenever they want and as much as they want, something that the Rules of Procedure do not and no one is interrupting them. I am not referring to the current President, Mr Lambroulis, who, in my opinion, is one of the best presidents of this House. The time will come when the clock will show'six minutes and fifty-nine seconds' and me, the mere MP who I am neither a Minister nor a parliamentary representative nor a political leader will tell me: 'Follow up to respect your colleagues'. I wonder to their MPs, did all the previous ones respect? I've been here since 10:00 in the morning and I'm just the fifth or sixth Member, who speaks. And that, I am sorry to say, shows the deterioration of Parliament. Are we finally a parliamentary democracy or a party democracy? Do we want the Member only to applaud the leader, the leader or any leader who has and to vote for what he is told, or do we want him to be actively involved in the activities? And then we say why is the House Hall empty? But that is why the Chamber of Parliament is empty, why too many fellow Members say: “Why should I waste my time in this House? I'll go to my district and collect votes." And so you see MEPs being re-elected who have never spoken to Parliament and have nothing to say and are elected because they go and come in contact with their voters. I'm sorry to say, we're sawing the branch we're sitting on. We are seeing our political system as a whole. I am not referring to parties, to the left, to the right, to the political system as a whole, to be sawn and to give the impression that this House is not working properly and that the authoritarian voices that exist in our society and not just in our society are strengthened worldwide. I was now reading a survey that after the pandemic, unfortunately, extreme authoritarian voices worldwide have been strengthened. In my opinion, too, we must prevent that. We have talked for a long time and there has been a big debate and it will be badly going out of the press that Adonis and Paulice were fought for Paul's mother, while that is not the subject of the debate, but outside it will only be left out of today's debate, remember me, because I am thirty-five years of journalist and I have experience. That is the only thing that will remain, and the bill is, of course, very important, as are the issues of pandemic. That's right. The pandemic is very important, because we live in exceptional circumstances. We've often forgotten about it, too. We think we're wearing the mask all right, but that we're a little bit normal. We don't live properly. What's been happening to humanity for the last two years is unprecedented and we don't realize it. There was a debate that personally offends me - and I think it should offend all society - the number of dead and how many they are, making comparisons of dead from country to country. Indeed, in Greece we have too many dead, more than twenty - two thousand, and every day we hear for a hundred dead, eighty dead, seventy dead. It's awesome. It's not a statistic. It is not statistical to say: "Oh, you had more dead, I had fewer dead." But are these serious things? The dead are a tragedy for the country. They're families, they're people who stay back, they leave kids young. We must be responsible for the pandemic. And here, I am sorry to say this and I will repeat it once again, we have the glory of God so much to fight ideologically, especially for competition, the issue of competition is indeed an issue on which we have various right-wings, but not pandemics. The pandemic is an extraordinary event, a national issue, a pandemic that we should all be much more responsible and unfortunately we are not. If our opposition disagrees with what the government does, Tsipras, Varoufakis, Velopoulos, Koutsoubas, all political leaders call Kyriakos Mitsotakis and tell him: "Come on Kyriakos, I come to tell you how you should manage it" and keep it there. Towards the outside we should have given the picture, especially on the subject of pandemic, that we are united as a fist in order to be able to deal with it better and for the benefit of society. The question of competition, in fact, has many problems and also because of pandemic, because the accuracy comes from the pandemic. From the outset I said that, once it 'prints' inflationary money to meet the needs of the pandemic, prices will rise. It's common sense. It's a first lesson if you've made a political economy at the university. And from the outset I said it was fatal to drop production and increase the cost of energy and transport. We all knew it, those who read it financially knew it. Now did we find out there's precision? It was a fateful result of the pandemic. And because I respect the House and respect my fellow Members, I end in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u263	I will give the floor now to Mr. Couvela. Mr Amyras will then speak of an amendment. Then we return to the list and will speak to Mr. Voloudakis, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Katrougalos. And about the time he asked for us will also speak with the parliamentary representative of Mera25. This is the design for the next half-hour about. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wish a good year with health to my fellow Members, to the workers in Parliament and of course to all Greeks and Greeks. To leave behind the difficulties that we have experienced in the last two years and the year 2022 will be the year of real recovery for the Greek economy and society. It is true that the indicators show that such a dynamic is being developed. The budget that we voted on a month ago shows us the way, and the international rating agencies have recently given the Greek economy a very positive degree to the efforts made by the Greek Government. The main thing, however, is the climate change that Greek citizens already feel, which is why they continue to trust New Democracy. Someone will ask if all the problems have been solved. Obviously not. Evidently the effort goes on. We have a lot of work to do in the year and a half that remains in the first rule of Mitsotakis and it is certain that many others will follow with these performances that we have. Today's draft law is completely integrated into the concept of development which is a long-standing one for our country, especially after the recent health crisis. It comes at a time when the need to modernise the competition framework in our country is greater than ever before. By incorporating Directive 2019/1 into our national law, the European Directive, we amend the Competition Act 2011 by adding powers and necessary guarantees of independence, but also sufficient resources to the National Competition Committee, as is the case in all other European directives so that we have better effects on the functioning of both Union, European competition law and national law. There must be no one in this Chamber who doubts and disagrees that the competition rules must be applied in a proper and rigorous manner by the Competition Committee to ensure the proper functioning of the Greek market. Any other attitude would be political hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The government does not feel an obligation from the framework of competition, but it has felt toward Greek society, to the Greek citizens, has taken measures to protect Greek consumers from the first moment, by imposing strict rules on prices for health products, thereby safeguarding the Greek consumer, in time setting the necessary walls and achieving lower prices. This results from international exhibitions. We are at the very low, below the European average, in terms of the values of diagnostic tests for COVID, without taking into account the tens of thousands of tests made daily and being offered free of charge to Greek citizens. Repeat, in particular, the SYRIZA Members, this distorting argument on the maximum plaque achieved by the Ministry of Development at the price of molecular diagnostic tests. But the Ministry has set the highest price. No one can sell these tests any more. Competition is the one who will set the lowest possible price. That is why municipalities too, in the case of the Thessaloniki Lawyers' Solidarity Fund, which I am well acquainted with, have asked for offers from various diagnostic laboratories for more offers and have achieved low prices, which are much below the maximum EUR 47. However, I did not hear a good reason from the Opposition that we have kept the prices for masks very low, for antiseptics, very necessary products, for the first time in this pandemic period. We have not heard a good reason for the successful withdrawal of accuracy and support from households. And I am not talking about energy prices, which are a global phenomenon and import accuracy, we are talking about the Greek market at this time. And adequacy exists, and the prices were kept at the levels they had to. Households were therefore supported by businesses of EUR 1.7 billion. Following the latest announcements, the support offered by the Greek Government is also on the accounts of electricity and gas. We have not heard a good reason for the glossy sum of EUR 43 billion which has been allocated to professionals, businesses and workers over the past two years. There was no good reason for the new support measures for focusing, pediatrics, nightclubs. Of course, within this health crisis, we have managed to add thirty-five thousand jobs to the market, reducing by three points the unemployment rate from November 2020 to November 2021. Not much good words have been heard, which should be said, on the part of the government, about the great efforts that are being made. Mostly, however, we have not heard any realistic proposals from the side of the Officerial Response in particular. The top argument that we were supposedly late to bring the European Competition Directive to parliament ratification, I think that only laughter is causing. Because I do not imagine that anyone can really blame the government after two hundred and fifty legislations that have come to Parliament in the last two and a half years for inadequate legislation. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the legislation under discussion is moving in two main directions. We are stepping up the Competition Committee by strengthening its independence, giving more human resources, more essential powers and new tools to more effectively carry out its work. On the other hand, we ensure the uniform application of competition rules in Europe and Greece. It is a very demanding task that the government is required to do at this stage. We guarantee this effort that we will leave nothing to his fate, with the aim of improving conditions in society and the economy, making the daily lives of Greek citizens better. We owe them that because that's why they trusted us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u265	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras, to support an article in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u266	I will support Article 4 of the amendment with a general number of 1190 and a specific 105. We are broadening the scope of the Energy Transmission Fund, to say it more simply the subsidy on electricity and gas, and for other categories than domestic consumers, that is to say, businesses regardless of size. This regulation is necessary to give companies, small, medium-sized and larger, regardless of the level of connection, whether we are talking about current or about connection pressure for gas. Four ministerial decisions will be adopted: one concerns the subsidisation of domestic consumer electricity accounts. It will be in main residences, and we estimate it will benefit four million two hundred thousand households. The second concerns the subsidisation of non-domestic consumers, i.e. commercial and industrial, regardless of the level of the trend. The third will concern a subsidy for agricultural tariffs for the period from 1 August of the past year, until 31 December of 2021. Finally, another ministerial decision will be adopted to subsidise all consumers' gas. Let us point out the following. Give us a clue. From November 2021 to January 2022, the wholesale price of electricity and especially gas three times over the corresponding period of last year has increased. So, by implementing the commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the government supports the Greek family, Greek households, businesses, farmers, with an overall amount of EUR 1.3 billion available from September to now and we are now continuing in January and with businesses regardless of size. I would like to say that the shape of financial support, which our country first across Europe has presented and obtained approval from the European Commission, has, of course, received in time a record of this approval and covers most of the increase in these accounts. Of course, I am at the disposal of colleagues for any clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u267	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Manosso Voloudakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are indebted to a bill of great importance for free competition, because we are having to discuss the question of accuracy and other things that I do not want to go into. Minister, I'm ready to commit the same injustice. Because, indeed, when we are talking about free competition in Greece today, we cannot deal with the question of the accuracy that is being observed and its reasons on the energy market. Before I get into these, just a few words about the bill we're talking about. It is a bill that actually makes the Competition Committee stronger, more independent than the Government, more transparent. In short, it gives it more weapons than it had up to now to impose free competition on the market, that is to say, the Treaty which ensures, given supply and demand, the lowest possible prices. We're from there. And that has nothing to do with today's bill or with the Ministry of Development alone - it is also a matter of decades of administrative practice in Greece - but we are at a very critical point and we need to see it. I shall therefore, in particular, speak about the energy issue. The operative cause of almost all price increases, in most products, was the depletion of gas prices. Monetary relaxation and other issues with regard to the re-launching after the pandemic, of course, but most of all, the most powerful cause is obviously natural gas. His price ejection led to an increase in the electricity price and it went through all stages of economic life. The government quickly reacted, in fact, by subsidising electricity and gas costs, drastically reducing the effects of the global energy crisis on households and businesses. As the crisis continues, however, measures will need to be taken to address evil at its root. It is true that the phenomenon is global. But it also has European and Greek peculiarities. In order to react correctly to the phenomenon, we first need to understand its causes. I stress this because, especially in the European Union - the European Commission, above all - there is a dogmatism about this. As regards the so-called ‘Green Deal’, the Green Agreement, for the climate neutral economy by 2050, is treated as a sacred cow, in the unavoidable public dialogue. That is the way it is for the political forces in Greece and for this Chamber. So to tell the reality it is. The evacuation of gas prices is directly linked to the international community's - and the European Union and the United States and the UN - plans for the climate neutral economy by 2050 and to the European Union's intermediate objectives in particular by 2030. Why? Because the shift towards renewable energy - which we certainly want - requires a guarantee of natural gas for units that are standardby when the air does not blow and the sun does not shine. A demand for natural gas is therefore created astronomical. At the same time, it is stipulated that natural gas is a transitional fuel, so we will not have it for too many years. When we are able to store energy produced by renewable sources, we will no longer need natural gas. So there's no big investment in natural gas by mining, new deposits, etc. So, on the one hand, we have demanding insurmountable and high in the medium term and a reduction in supply in the long term. Where these two happen, obviously the prices are escalating. If anyone knows a country that hasn't happened, tell us. But it doesn't exist. We would all like to live in a world without pollutants and without a human burden on factors that already affect the climate. With human measures, however, it is not possible to make plans for 2030 and 2050 without the possibility of adjusting to the current data at any time. What, then, must be done? A few suggestions in an outline. Firstly, the European Commission must distribute to countries - members of free rights of pollutants from the so-called'strategic reserve' of these rights. This will automatically drop the cost of generation from natural gas and coal. It is unthinkable that there is this possibility in the arsenal of the law, the policy of the Commission and it is not being used today. If not used today, when will it be used? The Minister for Energy, Mr Skrekas, along with Mr Stakoura, sent a letter with this proposal to the Eurogroup, which, however, did not lead to any reaction. This is precisely what the European Union's dogmatism in these matters shows. However, as we became first-timers - Greece - in planning and implementing the green transition, we can also become protagonists in the design of the response to the new data - flexibility was once our national feature and I want to believe that it remains - even though this will mean a slight extension of the time to achieve the goals. Secondly, we need to revise the defoliation programme, to extend the withdrawal of sustainable, current data, units, because increases in gas prices are so great that today, even after the cost of pollutants, production of lignite electricity is cheaper than gas production. This is why PPC increased its lignite production - and it did - as it did in all countries. Already the European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy estimates that the current crisis can last two or three years. They are the same people who two months ago said they expect de-escalation in the spring. Let us welcome them to the reality of this world, although the most precise wording is that they and we do not know when and how the crisis will end, nor will it come next. That is why we need to have alternatives available, so we need to extend the withdrawal time of the lignite plants. If we get to 2025, most of them pulling out, and we have a new crisis like this, what are we going to do? Now lignite helps to reduce somewhat the cost. These, which are competitive and high environmental standards, such as the "Ptolemais 5" built even by "Melite" in Florina, could continue to operate with lignite at least until the time we have the ability to store and reuse energy from the RES. At the same time, the way in which the energy market operates must be changed. I heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman just now complain about how the oligopoly works on this market. It's your creation, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the way the market works. Indeed, it has oligopolistic distortions and these also have a stronger competition committee such as the one created by this bill, it should, Minister, since the question of duplication of powers with the Regulatory Authority of Energy is resolved, to see it, because that is where there is a large part of the powers that lead to dramatic price increases in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u269	Good. We now invite Mrs. Mariannakopoulou to Stepma by SYRIZA. Mr Stamenidis, Mr Katrugalos and Mr Gregoriadis, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 will be followed. Here you go, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish you all a good year, with health and power. Ladies and gentlemen, on 10 January the government insisted and opened schools despite the dangers, despite the appalling outbreak of the pandemic and without new measures and the necessary protocols. Within these ten days that have taken place so far, we have about forty thousand cases of COVID-19 students and one in four cases is a child. From the first moment on, ladies and gentlemen, we have insisted and called on the government and told her that it must have a provision, since it has openly kept the schools, so that parents - the working parents whose child is positive - can stay at home with the child. And we're, of course, talking about children of preschool age and compulsory education until the third grade. No reaction from the government for ten days. For ten days and for forty thousand students who were ill, Minister, workers parents were forced to take on their regular leave - and if they were able to take - with what this means both health and socially. So today Mr Hatzidakis, the Minister for Labour, came here, and brought this unacceptable amendment, where he said to us: that he would bring it under the standard rules, that is to say under normal circumstances. It does, in other words, a proportionate application of sick leave, and it actually condemns and punishs private-sector parents to lose two legs. Of the five days, supposedly giving them this special leave, a 50% reduction daily for the four days and one day of the regular leave. Of course, everyone stood up and there was a strong reaction. And the Minister has only told us that we are not giving him evidence that we are not consistent. We have also been asked for the change, as our parliamentary representative has said. Here are the critical issues: does the Minister and the Mitsotakis Government consider that we are in normal circumstances? Do they think that the pandemic treaty has been in place for two years now, the huge outbreak in the population of pupils with COVID, the need for parents to be able to treat their children - that is, here we are talking about basic social and family needs - is covered as being in normal conditions and under standard provisions on sick leave? I think we all understand that here we are dealing with a government which is out of place and time and which in other cases knows very well and legislates for an emergency. Our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Haritsis, talked about the body of commissions. I shall refer to the hundreds of provisions which have pretexted the pandemic of deregulation of the labour market. That is where Mr Hatzidakis knows to bring these provisions as an emergency need and to the logic of the immunity of the herd and to the economy and to the pandemic and work. So here the government shows an antisocial person. We call on the Minister, even now, to withdraw this amendment. And it's not just her. It is also Mr Voridis' amendment, which is going to come in a little while, where he does not make a reduction in wages immediately in the sense that he is public, but restricts his leave to five days alone, as if we do not know that a child could be positive after the sixth and eighth days and of course at the expense of their regular leave. And then, in these cases, it refers to parents who work in the public sector to various other provisions, which also have an indirect reduction in their wages. We therefore call on the Government to withdraw this amendment and accept the amendment that we have tabled, which comes and says so, namely that working parents, both in the private and public sectors for the period when the child is positive and have to stay at home and, if schools are open, they should have the opportunity without being punished, without having any cost to their wages and to their regular permits - which have already been used in the ten-day period that has passed - to be able to care for their children. Of course, we need to understand what this means to the average worker today - I am not saying about the minimum wage worker, because there are two things there, and when we know very well that the accuracy, inflation, the energy crisis and the government's complete inappropriateness, the total refusal to make a substantial increase in the minimum wage, have led with elements of recent, yesterday's INE-GEU, to a reduction, at the moment, of the average wage, in terms of its purchasing power, ladies and gentlemen, by 14%. That's the reality. And so I come to the second part of the Hatzidakis amendment, where it is actually a communication arm. Mr Hatzidakis is coming back with this amendment, he is supposed to make a speeding-up of the procedures for setting the minimum wage, when he has already made an appalling 2% increase, that is, 13 euros mixed a month, so that he can cover the hopes and expectations that Mr Mitsotakis has tried to cultivate in May a great increase in the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Minister, if you are serious about increasing the minimum wage, there is one way to increase here and now to 800 euros, as SYRIZA has proposed - Progressive Alliance, there can really be a package that supports the work. And, of course, it cannot under the anti-Semitism arrangements of Mr Hatzidakis, the reduction of earnings, the unpaid hours of work and the destruction of the working hours, be able to stand by the average Greek family and Greek workers. It is a shame that you have brought this amendment to the House! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u271	Good. Thank you to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou for the consistency in time. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis (PPE). — (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Dionysios Stamenitis, on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment on what I have heard before. I really wonder with SYRIZA why they still insist on talking about the way the schools opened after Christmas celebrations. It would be nice to find another field of political controversy. This does not benefit you, because society has understood it, and the educational community has recognized the success of the project. Indeed, the schools also opened up organized, with the self-tests given to students, and about eighteen thousand cases were found free of charge and limited. That's what society says. Obviously, we have a different perception of things because you obviously insist on closed schools to be the children at home. We have another completely different approach and thankfully society and the educational community recognises the good of the project. Before I refer to the bills, I wish this House, to all and everyone, a good year and 2022 to be a better year for the Greeks. We are now discussing in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment on the modernisation of competition law for the digital era, which is essentially the amendment of Law No. 3959/2011 and the incorporation of Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the provision of competences to the competition authorities of the Member States to enforce more effectively the national and Union rules to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, and with the provisions of this Directive modernises competition law and deal with gaps and weaknesses of existing legislation. During the discussions in the committees there has been an in-depth debate and the general conclusion on the whole of the bill has been acknowledged as a positive sign, and this is also reflected in the positions of the people of the market and the institutions, with the exception of a minimum of exceptions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that there are serious signs of low competition on markets in Greece, which makes this legislation necessary. The fact is that in recent years Greece has made significant progress in strengthening competitiveness and this is credited by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The country's position in the international competitiveness index has improved by 12 points since 2019. However, the competition deficit remains and exists, and this is a brake on strengthening the efficiency of the economy. So we are driving in this way and with the current data on reducing consumer surpluses and on economic stagnation. The purpose of market mapping is therefore also to create new level of competition and innovation indicators to improve the effectiveness of the Competition Committee. The strengthening, therefore, of the independence of the Competition Committee and of the institutional role introduced by the legislation, as well as the introduction of more effective and transparent procedures for the selection of its members, is of primary importance for the effective implementation of competition law and for the resolution of these issues. It is also necessary to update its control powers in order to be able to meet the requirements of the digital age. And these are the objectives that we believe will be achieved by the adoption of the draft law. Therefore, the incorporation of the directive, which is our country's obligation, amends the legislation by giving more tools to the national competition authority, but also more resources. We thus achieve greater efficiency on the part of the supervisory and control work, while allowing competition law to be applied more properly. Ladies and gentlemen, as it has proved today - and we have seen it at committee meetings - opposition has put a number of issues in the debate and a strong criticism of the government. Greater proof than that the bill is successful is not there. What can you say about this bill? So the opposition to the committees, and here it deals with other issues. It deals with inflation, the accuracy that is actually there. First of all, we in the New Democracy have talked about this. But inflation is a phenomenon which affects all the economies of the world and yet, within this setting, our country is low on the European average. For example, in the United States last month it was closed with 7%, while in the quarter it was closed with over 6%, which is a 40-year record for America. Clearly to discuss this issue, clearly looking for solutions, but to speak with real elements, so that we can finally get to grips with it. They also referred to the energy crisis. It is, however, the Government of New Democracy that took immediate measures to tackle and increase electricity and heating prices, thereby continuing to provide substantial support for society and citizens, alongside whom he stood and standing, as he did during the pandemic and forced restrictions, as 42 billion euros were provided to households and businesses. For January alone, in our month, 400 million euros are spent to support households, businesses, farmers, livestock farmers and freelance professionals, and 1 billion euros have already been allocated for the previous four months. The amendment on the issue of the rapid increase in the cost of electricity, as a result of the global energy crisis, the consumers of electricity and natural gas, and the consequent need to extend the beneficiaries. And I come now to the things that have been heard about PPC. SYRIZA's colleagues said that it was the PPC's depreciation that caused the government to increase electricity prices. However, as the Minister of Agriculture told them in committee - and I fully agree with him - they are the last to speak in this Chamber about PPC, because in addition to the wrong level of explanation and analysis of the phenomenon, the position is absolutely hypocritical, since during their own days the operation has reached the edge of the cliff. And that's not what we call it, but the CEO who had entered PPC in SYRIZA's day. You delivered PPC with a share value of 1 euro and a huge debt. Today, if I'm not mistaken, it's 9 euros. And you're asking us for the change? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have told you many times, but you are hypocritically referring to PPC by underestimating the intelligence of this House and of the Greek citizens. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, refers to what has been said in the last few days because, as we have said many times, good and useful opposition criticism and must exist, but it must be based on a real basis. In closing, Mr President, my position and reverting again to the draft law we are discussing, I would like to say that it is a very important legislative initiative that comes not only as an obligation, but as a governmental option that will strengthen the independence of the Competition Committee, ensure the uniform application of the competition rules in Greece and in Europe and address the practices in the digital economy that are damaging to competition. I therefore urge all colleagues in this House today to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis. The next speaker is Mr George Katrugalos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish you and all colleagues a better year! The debate on the bill and what was preceded by its development seems to me to be more revealing about the policy of the New Democracy. After all, I consider Mr Georgiadis to be the most representative Minister of the Mitsotakis Government, a kind of alter ego of it, even in the version of 'Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde' for reasons I will explain next. The reason why the debate is revealing is because it highlights the basic features of the New Democracy policy. So let me take the first of them. Not in substance, but in communication, and even by exploiting the'mindist rule' and the dependency relationships that the government has cultivated in various ways with the media to falsify reality. What is the point, for example, of the Minister both in relation to the sad results of the management of the pandemic and the eruption of accuracy? Why are you protesting? Is this the only place? Can't you see these are world trends? As is the case with any effective fraud, whether political or not, there is indeed an objective basis on the argument. Indeed, neither inflation nor pandemic are Greek phenomena. But how is a government assessed compared to these world phenomena? Based on what its performance is. In the case of, for example, the pandemic, the hardest indicator we have, unfortunately, the number of deaths is twice as high as the population in relation to the European Union, and indeed with an earlier trend which is worsening for this sad index. This is not only because of the failure of the Mitsotakis Government to carry out vaccination - for the simple reason that we are not twice worse than the average of the European Union there - but it is due to a series of multiple failures or choices made by the Mitsotakis Government, such as not to impose, for example, on private doctors and hospitals, private clinics to protect the big private interests. Analogously, they also happen in relation to accuracy. Let us, for example, take the current index. Greece is the country which, among the thirty-three countries assessed in the relevant European index, recorded the largest growth in December compared with November. The overall increase in the framework of the year is 350%. So these show a more overall failure which highlights precisely the government's failures or individual choices. And as more characteristic, I would like to say to you, this loss of territory that the Greek economy has as far as the government is concerned is concerned, based on the latest Eurostat statistics showing what the relationship between Greeks' purchasing capacity and Greeks' income in relation to the European average is. Not only are we the second worst country - only Bulgaria is worse than us - but also since we received the governance of our country, our country, New Democracy is getting worse. The average national income in 2019 was 66% of European average income and is now 62%. Conversely Bulgaria, the only worst of us, has improved, even by three units, its own position. I could go on with that data. Unfortunately, the government's emphasis on communication is a more general phenomenon. As far as national issues are concerned, where they should be outside any micro-participatory conflict, they almost reached the point of putting the New Democracy's mark on the Rafah instead of the ethnic crime. If you find that expression too much, I would like to tell you that consulate relays us on their official websites the party video of the New Democracy. Something like this has never happened before and it's unthinkable. I think, however, more generally - and I will now go into the bill - that it is not just the matter of communication. The Minister spoke and made an ideological speech in his view saying that these choices challenge the ideological hegemony of the Left. As much as Darius has “methods and arrogance”, he knows that he is not addressing us, colleagues of the New Democracy. It's addressed to you! He knows that what we call the "ethical advantage" of the Left was built on the one hand with the palliative organization of our people's resistance during the Resistance period and on the other hand with what followed this period, torture and dryness. He is addressing you, trying to confirm himself, when he described you as a New Democracy, as a disgrace to the Right and when the softest thing he had said about Kostas Karamanlis is that he was a 'assuming', precisely because his perception of politics is the one that has always been - to his honor - and to whom the party of the New Democracy and the Government of New Democracy has towed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Excuse me, I'm running out of time. This new position is far-reaching on political and rights issues, closer to Salvini and Orban and economic issues closer to neoliberalism, but to the Balkan version of neoliberalism. It is neoliberalism with nanogilekos because of the choices of 5.5 billion euros directly, due to the choices of the bill to gather power to make our jobs, but also because of the support of Attica's operations towards the region. These are not typical of neoliberalism in general. The characteristics of neoliberalism are the support of large companies, which indeed exists in the bill, by doubling the ceiling for aid and the minimum level of investment, the difficulty of involving small ones. However, rushfets, such as the inclusion of specific sectors, such as treatment centres, machinery laundry, ironing services, are in the second category, the Balkans, neoliberalism of the nanogile type. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Excuse me for overcoming time, Mr President. I'm gonna need less than a minute. There is also talk of an amendment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The first paragraph of the amendment, which I hope is not due to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although the Minister signs and assumes political responsibility, is a classic case of photographic provision that changes the ad hoc conditions for the secondment to our permanent delegation in Brussels. We know by name who it is, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance. It is scandalous, however, to serve our people, to change the provisions. Six months ago, we were discussing the organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is obvious that changes take place for other reasons. The other part of this amendment, which concerns the administration of a new development fund unit, has structural problems, particularly in that it does not guarantee cooperation with the final structure of the ESDP, and that is why we are not going to support either of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u276	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katrugale, because you know the size of my respect, I would like you to withdraw this on 'neo-liberalism with nanogileco'. It's not the Katrugalo level, it's the Polakis level. I'd ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u278	The next speaker is the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katrugale, you're a little in your mind because the enormous appreciation of the Minister of Development - I don't want to say anything about man's morale to God - I suspect that you are not very honored. It reminds me of a good report from a partner to a partner. And to be right to what I mean: the Memorandum and them, barbaric, memorial barbaric, in our view, yours, which ends in 2060. Minister, Mr Georgiadis, I have not heard you answer Mr Varoufakis, who said that you are the Minister of Development, but the country is underdeveloped. And I didn't hear you answer anything about a particular question. He specifically said to you: "Is it or is it not this year's GDP less than 2019, when you took over?" If it is, the country's math doesn't grow. Now, what is to blame for this and what and how we can find all this in the future. Also, do you know what to tell me that on the rule of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." or your government, if you prefer, would arrive in this country? I'm not talking about electricity, I'm not talking about oil, I'm not saying gas, because that's what people don't laugh, but it gets wild when they hear it. I'm talking about other things, cheese, bread, milk, that is what the poor people need, which, as you know - because on the market you are - are much more than the rich people. Of course they have. And, of course, I am also asking you directly, since you have also not answered Mr Varoufakis: are you, as Minister of Development, saying that all that I have just said now, the bread, milk, meat and fish have risen 1.2% of ELSTAT's saying? Because really, because I know you and I know how you're going, I know you'd never dare say that, because you have contact and contact with your world. The world takes you to a supermarket every week. He cannot eat this, in any way, his mind. You know the Municipality of Halandri manages to buy a molecular test at 25 euros, you know that the Municipality of Naples-Sykeon at 29 euros, you know that the Municipality of Evosmos at 28 euros. Do you know what you've achieved? Put a cap on 47. What does that mean, Mr. Georgiade? I'm asking you as the government's representative. Does it mean that the negotiating power of our country, when “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.” is governed by the government, that is, even a nation of the whole, less by the negotiating power of the Municipality of Sicily or the Municipality of Evrosmos? No, of course we don't. Your government's negotiating power is more than a thousand times those municipalities that have reached such prices. Let the Cypriot Minister also go out, and he said that in his opinion whether the country was seriously negotiating could achieve a price of around EUR 17. So it is obvious that you can achieve better prices and you could and you can tomorrow if you want. It is, therefore, even more obvious that you are not doing so for a reason, because those who sell it, the pharmaceuticals, and all this cycle, are your orders, are the ones who sent you to the House, that is, they are the ones who paid the billions to have the election campaign that has so misunderstood the Greek people. Now, two questions, Minister. I am speaking as a parliamentary representative and that is why I am not talking in detail about the bill. Two questions, which I think are worth it in relation to the Rafahs. You know what I mean, these wonderful Rafahs, the twenty-four, for which yesterday you made a wonderful fieste, which, with the money of the Greek people, you took as Roman emperors, you appeared in front of the Greek people to say to him: “What have I got to you? Look what I got you, little present." But it's not a little present. You took him out to get them. Two questions about the Rafahs, which matter and I think you're going to bother answering them. Firstly, if, instead of twenty-four, we were taking twenty-three and instead of the twenty-fourth, we were taking five thousand intensive - because that is the cost, five thousand IF. You tell me - I know - we didn't have people, we don't have intensifiers. I'm sorry, Mr. Georgiadis, I'm not saying this personally, but your government and your policies have been kicked out for twelve years now. You're the ones who kick them out. When I say "you", I mean you, SYRIZA, the Change Movement. As one thing I have you all who have been subjected to and you are exemplary captives. Twelve years, then, you have now thrown out six hundred thousand, our brightest minds, and now you're telling us that you don't have intensifiers? But of course you haven't, since he's studied ten years and he's taken his degree with ten and he's unemployed a hundred years, because you haven't taken a permanent member of the ERC. So now - to get to the second issue - I hear you're hiring seven hundred permanent doctors to the ESS. I guess you're doing what I've been telling you for so long: Take one, two, ten, a hundred, for the eyes of the world. I would remind you that Mr Samaras, the Prime Minister of the New Democracy, the previous one by Mr Mitsotakis, mentioned eighteen thousand in the government's establishment plan that they needed the system in 2012. Mr. Xanthos said that eighteen or twenty thousand needed the system. Finally you, after two and a half years, have not hired anyone, and now you are hiring, oh of the miracle, seven hundred and four thousand nurses. And there is a question of abysselee and ruthless, Mr Minister, or rather Mr Ministers. Where was it, son, these seven hundred? Because one year, we tell you to hire them, you say: 'We want to, but we can't.' How did seven hundred in one night have been found, Mr President, I wonder, when one and a half years now there has been no one? So one question about the Rafahs is: Would we be miserable if we had a Rafah less? If we had twenty-three instead of twenty-four, and at the same time we had five thousand intensified, so that people - with apologies for expression - could not die in common beds, because there are no intensive insulation into ICUs? The second is: Do you pledge as two serious ministers of a supposedly serious government that these Raphalls you took and those freshmen you took and savagely nurtured the Greek people before making the fiasco with the phase you put in, take off and sail in a hot Imia press episode or in a Cyprus press invasion? Because both previous governments of this kind, governments of capitalists, refused when Washington said: "Don't move, I'll cut your legs, I have the electronic war, I'll blind you and you will lose" they refused to move them. And if it's the way I say it, and if Washington has the upper hand, and it can blind anyone who wants to lose, then it turns out there was no reason to get anything from you and take it just to be submissive to Mr. McCron, to be submissive in Washington, which, by the way, has just realized that Mr. McCrone has taken enough from the four-fold bankrupt Greece, said to get her too. That's why we've been banned - and you made it public here, and it's embarrassing - to take French corvena and we'll get American corvena. I shall end, Mr President, with some comparisons. Or rather not, I just want to say a minute about my two amendments, the others will let them go in time. We have two amendments, Mr President. Look, the restrictions due to the fear of intra-Civid transmission have been deprived by the patients of COVID - and listen to all this - something very important, their man. It makes sense that their man was not there, Mr President, but he is very traumatic and he is tormenting if you are a child or a disabled person or if you are an old man and not to have someone to help you mentally, he is tormenting you. Our first amendment - and it is up to you to do it and it is too cheap a budgetary amendment - is to hire psychologists, social workers, go to the ESS and support the people who are on their own. Our second amendment, which is much more important in my view, although it cannot be put into scales, is, of course, about the auctioning of first homes. Listen, Minister, no matter how well your development has gone, with the start of the new year, Brussels, Berlin, and all those speculative funds that have taken people's loans from the banks of high age require - you know what our information says? - four hundred thousand first home auctions in 2022. We already know that only in December 50% of the auctions that you made in the country were first home, and indeed a vulnerable household. It's a chance for all of us to change that. It is an opportunity for all of us, those who vote for this amendment by Mera25, as the 'GEOFYRA 1 and 2' programme ends - I shall end immediately, Mr President - to institutionalise the absolute protection of the first main residence from the auctions. To this end, we are tabling this amendment and we want households to be subject to a primary residence protection scheme, which will have no time limit and at the same time have retroactive effect. In common, the right to the protection of the home of people, who have been sweat and blood, to be lasting, is not to end in time. You saw, Mr President, I kept as much time as I could, and thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u282	Minister, again intervention? I said before. To every speaker, you have something to answer, obviously. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u283	I shall respond to my speech as a whole. Don't worry. Mr Colleague, I will only ask you one question and I would like to ask you if you can answer that question. Everything else I will answer in my speech. You claimed that a Cypriot Minister humiliated me because he said that if we were to negotiate good, we could buy PCRs at the price of 17 euros. I'm saying exactly what you said. Can you explain exactly how this Cypriot Minister humiliated me with this phrase when in Cyprus the PCR cap entered 50 euros? In other words, having a EUR 50 pound, but saying that we could buy at EUR 17, as a state, someone is okay, but, if he puts the EUR 47 pound and tells what I'm about to tell you now, that the EEAS buys PCR well below EUR 17, is it humiliated? The rest I'll explain if you're in the Chamber when it comes to my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u284	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u286	You've got to have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Georgiade, I'm noble. I did not say 'he humiliated you'. I said 'exposed' and I did not say personally. I said he exposed all your government, which has been making fun of us for so long. Listen: Greece and Cyprus do not have the same negotiating power. Do you know a percentage of the population of Cyprus? Do you know how many tests Cyprus bought for its citizens? And since you do, do you know that all this is free in Germany, France, Spain, the United Kingdom? Do you know that in all the favoured countries of the world it is free for citizens, why are citizens not nationals or slaves? Of course it does not have the same negotiating capacity as a country that has 10% of our population. Of course she doesn't. And also the notion. I have explained to you that the rest of Europe is free, whether German or Spanish, whether Danish or Belgian or French. The problem is not to have the misfortune to be born in Greece and indeed, in Greece of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", Mr.Georgiadis!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u288	Mr Lippe Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u290	Minister, I beg your pardon, but this cannot go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u291	It's not in the rest of Europe for free. That's completely false. There are some countries in Europe that for medical reasons prescribe some with a prescription for free. As a general rule, all countries are also sold in all the countries you mention the PCR are much more expensive than in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u292	Well, he has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, I would like to speak. He said I was lying! I'll read only the prices! I need a second. So, listen, let's see who's completely lying and who's not lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u294	But soon, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u295	In Germany, every German citizen or immigrant, vaccinated or unvaccinated, without a hundred euros a month in the head, is entitled to a rapid test every day. In Denmark, citizens can do whatever smokes them, free rapid test every day or twice a day or PCR test. And that applies to all, both vaccinated and unvaccinated. Free tests are also carried out by immigrants, Mr Georgiadis, as well as by tourists. In Cyprus, free tests for all vaccinated residents, 5 euros for the invaders. The PCR test also costs 20 euros in Cyprus, Mr Georgiadis. Do you want me to go on? I have all the European countries. I'm not lying at all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Lippe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief and only refer to the bill. In order to prosper, an economy requires the proper functioning of the market and healthy competition between businesses. Cartel phenomena, monopolies or oligopolistics always work at the expense of the consumer. Competition law must be up-to-date, up-to-date and synchronised with current market practices and conditions. Greece records a significant rise in the international competitiveness index over the last two years, and even in these two difficult years for the economy it has risen by 12, from the fifty-eighth in 2019 to the forty-sixth in 2021. With the current legislative initiative of the Ministry of Development and Investment, better legislation on competition law is being taken to bring it into line with Directive 1/2019, but also to meet the current requirements. One of the main objectives of today's bill is to further strengthen the Competition Committee on many levels, firstly to strengthen its independence, secondly, to expand its powers and thirdly, to strengthen its human resources. The guarantees of operational independence for the members of the Competition Committee shall be strengthened so that they do not cease to exist for reasons related to the performance of their duties. At the same time, it is easier to deal more quickly with cases by increasing the number of rapporteurs and extending the Committee's competences to take over the mapping of competitive conditions in the sectors of the economy required. The aim is to attract qualified staff from the private sector to the positions of heads of staff by providing wage incentives, but also to a specific time horizon which may not exceed four plus two years. The Competition Committee is working closely with the European Commission and the relevant authorities in the other Member States. Cooperation is even extended to the service of subpoenas or decisions on behalf of other competition authorities. It is expressly forbidden for an undertaking to propose, press or motivate another competing subsidiary to participate in a prohibited partnership between competitors. Very important is the new provision which attempts to suspend the practical joint price rise by competing companies. It is prohibited for an undertaking to disclose its future pricing of products where this is not done in the ordinary course of trade. This is how consumers are protected from driving like companies to a similar price increase. A new regulation on fines imposed by the Committee, which must be proportionate, is introduced to take into account the total turnover of an undertaking, a group and to operate dissuasively. The bill also contains provisions adapting the Competition Committee to the digital age. The Committee may now collect information from any type of digital medium and monitor the behaviour of companies based on algorithms. The Committee may invite any natural person who may provide knowledge of a case, even if it does not belong to the staff of the undertaking. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] An additional weapon is added to the Committee's hands with the possibility of requesting the waiver of the confidentiality of telecommunications within the framework of its preventive control. In the context of the development effort and with a view to strengthening investment, the chairman of the committee may sign a letter. This letter will inform the committee that it does not intend to take action in the event of a partnership between specific undertakings, when required by the public interest and in particular in order to achieve the objectives of sustainable development. However, this letter can be reversed in the future and is not binding both on the committee and on the judicial authorities. The Competition Committee is also financially supported by the collection of the infringement for requests for mergers, i.e. cartels, mergers. Finally, the amendments tabled by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are also very necessary. They provide for a special leave of up to five working days for workers in the private and public sectors, when their children are ill with a coronary. Where possible, officials shall provide their work for distance or with a reduced working hours. There are corresponding forecasts of permits or telework if the worker himself is ill, as Mr Hatzidakis explained, in the development of the relevant amendment. In conclusion, I will say that in recent months there have no doubt been significant appreciations of basic goods worldwide and, of course, Greece as well. Nevertheless, the situation in our country remains relatively controlled by the constant vigilance of the government that has made a firm and ruthless attitude to the cases of shamefulness. In this economic environment, the current draft law, which increases the role of the Competition Committee, is of increased value. Competition within a market works refreshly for the economy by obliging businesses to invest in time and money, in innovative ideas and actions to distinguish them. Given that research and innovation are driving levers for economic development, ensuring a healthy competitive environment ultimately leads to economic prosperity in the interests of businesses, consumers and budgetary sizes. This is the vision of the Prime Minister, the Government and the Ministry of Development and Investment, and this vision becomes a step-by-step reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. The other Member of Parliament from Magnesia, Mr Constantine Maravegias, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying a few words about the new intervention by Mr Polakis against the state mechanism, which every day seeks to limit and control the transmission of the coronary. I would not refer to the attack a few days ago by Mr Polakis policemen at the time when they carried out a check on compliance with these measures, that is, doing their duty, but the question that they tabled yesterday is coming to the defence of Mr Polakis, and there is now a problem with regard to the conduct of the Officerial Response on a broader basis, because we are not only talking about a party which defends the infringability of a Member, even in the context of a poorly-considered solidarity. We are talking about the Civic Opposition of a European country which disputes the legality of imposing fines for the protection of public health, because, according to a bizarre peculiarity that exists there in Civicism, the fines for not complying with the measures simply serve limited corporate objectives and not preventing the transmission of the coronary. And let Paulakis say that, but another thirty-eight? Minister, the bill under discussion, despite its technical nature, also has a special relationship with the current situation and with another crisis that our country is experiencing beyond that pandemic. I am talking about the energy crisis, which is certainly not primarily due to a competition problem on the Greek market, but it was undoubtedly caused by structural distortions in the international energy market and especially in the gas market. The recent negative experience of the European Union as regards supplies from Russia reminds us that the main price reduction mechanism is global competition and therefore diversification in natural gas sources. Some of the measures supported by the New Democracy in this direction are the construction of new pipelines for the transport of natural gas, terrestrial and underwater, the creation of liquefied natural gas installations, the strengthening of renewable energy sources and the electrical interconnection of islands such as Northern Sporades, and the domestic production of hydrocarbons. In our home country it continues to be promoted in cooperation with multinational energy colossal projects to develop underwater gas and oil deposits. Finally, there is the recent Prime Minister's initiative on European cooperation, aiming both at the mutual supply of natural gas from the international market and at the creation of common European energy storage facilities and strategic energy resources. Ladies and gentlemen, healthy competition is of course not necessary only in international energy trade. As emphasised in today's draft law, it is necessary to improve the functioning of the internal market of all kinds of marketable goods. And that is precisely where it is incorporated into our National Law or Community Directive 2019/1 on the provision of new competences to the competition authorities of the Member States with a view to more effective enforcement of national and Union competition rules. More specifically, the competition law is being modernised and there are gaps and weaknesses in existing legislation, but also in the competition committee itself. These are important improvements which will undoubtedly help to address the phenomenon of accuracy and ensure the proper functioning of the market and ultimately to protect - that is the last question - of the Greek consumer. It is also characteristic to update the supervisory powers of the authority so that the committee can meet the requirements of the digital age, such as the control of commercial algorithms, which undermine competition, and the mapping of the market by using large data. I would like to stand by, Minister, in particular on the issue of the institutional independence of the Competition Committee and in particular on the guarantees provided by the Bill for the enhanced independence of its members. We all remember this unfortunate story with the placement of Mrs Thanou by SYRIZA as head of this principle. And the fact that her own objections after her removal from the president's position were all unfounded was definitively judged by the Council of State. In fact, however, she also confirmed yesterday her organic link to SYRIZA, publicly justifying Mr. Paulakis and his draft specification for justice. Although former supreme judiciary itself, Mr. Tsipras' legal counsel quickly supported the mass voluntary removal of judges, announced by Mr. Paulakis instead of Greek justice. So all Mrs Thanos has finally achieved is to remind us of the need to strengthen the independence of the members of the Competition Committee in order to avoid any such party positions in future. In short, Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying a few words about the very important amendments made by the Ministers for Labour and the Environment. I begin with speeding up the review of the minimum wage for which the Prime Minister himself had committed himself from the budget debate and which Mr Hatzidakis implements. The process begins immediately and ends by April at the latest, in order for all private sector workers to see increases in the minimum wage for employees and the corresponding wage for workers, much earlier, that is to say, from 2022, for the current year, in addition to the increases already made. As far as Mr Screka's amendment on the subsidy for energy consumers is concerned, it also helps millions of Greeks in this difficult international context. Horizontal subsidy, therefore, of all electricity consumers regardless of the level of voltage, including rural use. This allows the retroactive grant of agricultural electricity tariffs from August to December 2021 by financing them from the Energy Transfer Fund. All natural gas consumers except electricity producers and the extension of the beneficiaries of energy subsidies to all professional activities are also provided for. But I would like here, Minister, to put a request for productive sectors, such as tourism, in relation to the oil subsidy, which undoubtedly bears the operating costs of businesses. Representatives of producer bodies and Magnesia have recognised the government's rapid reflexes in dealing with the international crisis inevitably affecting the country. But measures such as subsidising electricity and natural gas costs to households and businesses, suspending payment of services of general interest for average-voltage consumers and increasing the heating allowance are moving in the right direction. So there is the question of seeing other professional charges. It would therefore be useful, Minister, for the co-responsible ministries to see the question of the subsidy of oil as limiting the increase in energy costs is of great importance for maintaining the competitiveness of Greek companies. Thank you for your understanding, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, too. The floor is now for the SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelos for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, one year's delay the Mitsotakis Government brings to Parliament the incorporation of Directive 2019/1 on competition. You don't think it has already been a year since the last deadline for integration. But what is obvious throughout society is that the oligopoly and cartels live and reign with Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Price manipulation and speculation are what the citizens see every day in the accounts and the government defends them in molecular tests, supermarkets, construction materials, in the energy market. It is a strategic choice for Mitsotakis government to support the oligopoly and the shameful gain, the bracelet in public property. Greece becomes poorer with this right-wing government and property, and in institutions, and in transparency. The wave of precision affects the market, affects households and businesses, reduces consumer purchasing power. I'm going to testify the elements of GFCM's MO, which proves that the average monthly individual available income lost 7% of its purchasing power on an annual basis. The loss of purchasing power for the minimum wage reached 10% while the annual net earnings of a four-member family decreased in 2020 compared to 2019, to see how good the Mitsotakis government is. And we have the second worst employment performance. ELSTAT also shows, at tragic levels of inflation, the price explosion: natural gas 135%, electricity 45%, heating oil 34%. They've all done it. But the electricity and gas bills all come to everyone. The government cannot hide behind the grief of ex post subsidies. It runs behind the price rally. Tails are the first to measure. How are we first? In September 2021 the Prime Minister announced measures. You are coming today with a third amendment to admit that you have not yet implemented these. You have given nothing to entrepreneurs, farmers, municipalities, the middle-voltage, nothing! And you are amending it again today with an amendment. Vote-vote, leg work for four and a half months. But the bills come to everyone and write on "Mitsotakis charismatics". We have the capitals at the wholesale price of energy for the whole year 2021, we are first in 2022. Let the fairy tales that these, taggers, she's exogenous. It's not exogenous at all. The Commission's report clearly states that it has been made public. It says, "While the gas cost was EUR 31 to 32 per megawatt for the third quarter, in Greece wholesale energy did the following: July 102 euro, August 122 euro, September and 135 euros." Why, while prices remained stable? And let's see, is the gas and wholesale function legal? Of course not. In Europe, the Commission's report says that gas consumption fell by 10% in the third quarter. In Greece it rose by 12%. What for? Do you want a more specific example? The amount of gas produced in France decreased to 49%. In Greece the amount of gas produced increased to 24%. This is the choice of Mr. Mitsotakis. Behind the pretext defoliation you made a great deal. You brought private natural gas units, imported, mineral, expensive and carbon-taxed in Greece. This is a great deal, to close lignite to open private gas and not go to green energy. So the Commission confirms this, which says that "Greece has not completed the mechanisms of the market and has great dependence on natural gas" and that all the theories of an exogenous problem are denied. It is a disastrous choice of the government because we are the only country in Europe, probably, that we are exposed to the previous day's contracts. The entire wholesale market takes place the day before. We don't have bilateral contracts. You did not do that in the context of competition. And so Greece is at risk of falling competitiveness and of energy poverty. First operation of anti-competitive options by the Mitsotakis Government. An increase of 15% to 20% in PPC on September 1, 2019, selection of Hatzidakis, market intervention. Result: The whole market became more accurate instead of getting cheaper. A second act, a disgrace in 2020. Wholesale price April 28 euro. How much did PPC sell with the blue children with the gold bonuses? He sold 110 euros. Four times the price to get the bonuses. And then you celebrate for profits. Third act, unregulated operation of the energy market since November 2021. We said to Mr Hatzidakis: 'You are not ready'. Competition will solve all the problems! Do you see how he solves the problems? What does the Greek industry say? And I shall put it before you, Mr President, that we have market manipulation, we have unfair competition, we have unfair profits from vertically integrated producers. Inside them and PPC of the blue children of Mr. Mitsotakis. These, which I will submit together, prove that you do not want to take any measures to control and regulate the market. You have unprecedented inertia even in our own speeches. I shall present two documents from the Competition Committee, Mr President. One is dated 17 September and the other 2 November. In Parliamentary control of SYRIZA, what do they say? That they're going to set up a working party a year and a half later to see what's going to happen on the energy market. It's embarrassing! And this is linked to your choice not to file the article on ecosystems. The Energy Regulatory Authority is not doing its job, and the Competition Committee is not doing its job, and the Government is putting back on the phenomena of greed. The Greek industry says it's not SYRIZA, and I'll testify, Mr. President. You come in later and you talk about subsidies. Watch out. Instead of the government intervening in accuracy and reducing it, instead of using a public PPC, as SYRIZA did four and a half years, who did not raise 1 euro the electricity cost, you start and talk about subsidies. I mean, subsidize the accuracy. At the start of EUR 9, after EUR 18, after EUR 39, after EUR 49,5, but in January you come and reduce it to EUR 42. And where does the Greek industry come to say that we are limiting production, or are we shutting down? Mr. Matthew from the Attica Industries Association. This is the development that goes "visin" by the Minister of Development. This is how it goes "bizin" from the energy cost that this government lets it progress like this. To close, what happens to farmers, professionals. I shall also present it, Mr President. Where it is done - it says - the absolute chaos, it is announced by the government in December again 80% of the accuracy subsidy - had been said in September by Mr Mitsotakis - to come today to make an amendment to why it is not applicable. For farmers have received late accounts with over 2,000 euros per month of raisining, rapporteur of the New Democracy. And it hasn't come as a credit card and it's demanding. And you come today to make a new amendment to prove that you are doing footwork. You are not only dangerous at the same time and you are mocking all the producers and municipalities, because we simply have a consumer today. Example: Provincial commercial business 130 euros the electricity, 390 euros the Mitsotakis engraving, an increase of 298%. Maga Thessaloniki, focus: 263 euros the current, 881 euros the raisin. After the subsidies. Familiar subsidisation! 335% increase. That's how the Minister of Development loves entrepreneurship. And you come to make fun of business with announcements for January. The government has announced that it will grant 50% of the growths of 65 euros at the moment. Now here or you're kidding or you don't know. The wholesale trade in January, because we know calculations and there's algorithm is 232 euros at the moment. How is the EUR 65 that the government will give - if it gives it, that is, five or six more amendments - worth 50%? Shall we say it clearly? Farmers, water, businessmen, shops. 28% will also be subsidised if they ever manage to make a good ministerial decision and an amendment, because today you are bringing an amendment for the previous four months that says you will make a ministerial decision. I mean, now we have a businessman. I will tell you a fridge of agricultural products that has 3,000 euros electricity and 9,500 euros a clause. In this fridge, are you going to say you're going to give 2,5 grand? And the rest of the seven grand clauses, who's gonna pay for them? The Minister of Development?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u302	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u303	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. It is clear that consumers and entrepreneurs, like farmers and municipalities, understand that you lie to them about the current. You are responsible for this cost. You have the primacy in Europe, it is not just exogenous and you come and you vote and you vote for four and a half years later. You are also laughing at Greek production and society. It is hypocritical what you are telling us today about competition. You put your backs on the oligopoly and on the greed. It makes our society poorer, this government makes our economy poorer. You are a dangerous government for all of Greece, and that is why you must leave as soon as possible! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u304	Please take care of the Step in order to get the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, it is a little ruthless to discuss the orderly functioning of the internal market with what the government has done to date, where, in its actions, the government, with its policies, has destroyed not only the market, but the people of the market, trade, Greek citizens and society as a whole. Why can one say in this Chamber what one wants and strongly supports his point of view, but what is the point of view out there and what is the right function, Minister, when the market is groaning, when the padlocks are multiplying, and when traders and small and medium-sized enterprises are really at despair? The Greek people, you know, cannot buy the basic species, the simple things. I read that by 13.7% - Institut de la Vinci - the citizens' purchasing power has decreased over the last month. So what do we say to the world out there, what good are we, and what good do we applaud? Hey, you're not good! What about electricity, for example? We have come to have the most expensive current in Europe, to fear that the poor Greeks will open up PPC's account with what they will see, because the amount they will be asked to pay is greater than even a instalment of housing loan, Mr President. Huge! And you're the man you're going back to your area. Problems are huge. We cannot whistle indifferently and say that everything is well burned. The world is suffering. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises with the enormous increases they cannot pay. Actually, you're condemning them to extinction. But of course, it's not your fault either. You are the one who has rushed to condemn and obviously in a festive way - we have never understood why you have done so - the huge lignite reserves in our country. We call it, our tongue's hairy. I was surprised to hear a government MP, Mr Voloudakis, be on the line of Greek Solution, say about lignites! The self-defense of man to say. Your MPs have also started talking. The same thing Mr Voloudakis said a moment ago. So if we had, as the President of the Greek Solution said months ago, on a pre-market for oil, when he had 20 bucks the barrel, on a gas pre-market and did not go to violent liberation, we would be a little better at this time. So our country is forced to import power from non-friendly countries, from Skopje, from Albania, from Turkey and to be dependent. The gas has reached astronomical values and the cold, unfortunately, is plucky and comes cold from what I was reading a moment ago. Even oil has gone over 89 bucks a barrel, goes for 100 dollars, but of course you have no responsibility here. How have you regulated the fuel market? You say 'we have set up'. How? By having the most expensive gasoline in Europe? Prices are hovering and it is likely that unleaded will reach 2 euro per litre. And here you do not reduce, as our language has also haired, the excise duty, the VAT. But we say so, do it. It is not your fault, of course, that all these increases are next to be passed on to consumers and to basic types of first need. You are not even inhibiting VAT on basic foodstuffs and I would point out once again that our country has the highest rates of VAT on food in the European Union. Why, my child, this Greece? With the lowest wages, the highest taxes! Why? In order not to talk about the cost of testing the coronary, because things have been said today, but I am reading here - what we are told has been taken over and our own, Minister - for the Greek Hoaxes. Surprise today, we have learned that they are hunting only for us and that they are lagging the government. According to the available data, Greek Hoaxes! I've had fun today, I'm saying good. I hear your MPs, Mr Voloudakis, talking about the violent frustration you have done, agreeing with us. The Greek 'Hoaxes' put them with the government and Mr. Mitsotakis. Surprises, something's changing! The claim that prescribing a PCR test is not a norm in Europe does not correspond to the reality. Citizens of most European countries may, after contacting their own doctors, receive a prescription or a reference to conduct a PCR test in public or co-operating with public private structures without financial burden. As far as Austria is concerned, the prescribing of molecular control is not necessary - depending on the Land is there - because citizens can book themselves a PCR test at selected diagnostic centers, inexpensively. What can we say more? Tell us. In December inflation reached 5.1%. You broke all the records! It's been a decade since the first memorial. They open again, they wake up nightmares. The wholesale price of electricity reached 415.94 euros now. Do you understand what we're talking about? And because we're talking about economy, I'm going to tell you that by the end of the year that passed us, seven thousand hundred and eighty-eighty auctions were scheduled. All of this reflects your party, the Government of New Democracy. When your party owes 340 million and you haven't told us how and if you're gonna pay it, at the same time you put scissors on the pensions of the world. Here is a painting, therefore, colorful, very handsome, which shows the course from 2010 to 2021. Of the 127 million that your party owed, you went to 340 million euros. Watch out, 340m euros! He'll be filed in the Minutes. We are going to the Rafael, because yesterday really, Mr President, it was a very important day for Greece, which we now have these murderous war machines to prevent, and we are very proud to have managed in the public debate, in the parliamentary dialogue, to put not a stone, but a large rocket, I will say, to get our country to the Rafahs. I'm not going to stay in that little soul that you've been robbed and you've made it a commercial spot. You've refined the process. This was a national case yesterday and we had to be proud of the purchase of these aircraft. It was very tiny what you did, and I think you've all understood it. But you cannot smuggle the Raphael market when you themselves owe so much money! It's not your market, it's Greeks. From our pockets, each with his taxes has contributed to buying these aircraft. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we are proud to be double, and I shall close, Mr President, with that. We are proud, because on August 6, 2020, the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos called and then at the meeting he had with Mr. Mitsotakis, he told him about the Rafas, when the discussion table was still the F-35. So we're twice as happy that we got the Rafahs. On August 6, 2020, in the channel "And1", to Mr Papadakis, "Good together", Velopoulos called on the government to take French Rafalis. On September 3, 2020, Kyriakos Velopoulos mentioned in the House and I read from the Minutes: “The first to tell the Prime Minister about the Rafahs was me. When we met, I told him, look at the Raphalis from Croatia that are going to get them for free." On December 15, 2020, Kyriakos Velopoulos proposed to the House and I read from the Minutes: "The Rafalis, ladies and gentlemen, can with a slight adaptation carry nuclear heads. If we are a serious country, and we want to prevent it, we must slowly draw up how these weapons can be made - I shall say this directly - the Parthenian arrow against the Turks, chauvinism, Nazism, authoritarianism. Let the Prime Minister think about it, I say it very loose tone and not imperative." And in January 2021, we had a question from Mr. Velopoulos about the possibility of including additional and secondhands other than new ones. This is the Greek solution. We were the first to propose the Greek-French agreement on the Rafahs, and we voted on it both with two hands. We want as long as we are here, which I think we will be for many years, because the world will trust us, that we have contributed so that our country has fortified and has deterrent power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In closing, Mr President, I would like to send racing greetings - as Greek Solution - because it is a sign of the fact that in this life only you conquer the people in Evros at the Evros penitentiary. The people there have risen up. Yes, it is crazy on the border over New Democracy's insisting that the CYT be extended with illegal immigrants on the back of the Greek Army. On the border in Evros you insist. The world's mobilizations seem to be catching place so far. He left the subcontractor, who carried out the work on superstructure in the Evros penitentiary. It's a crime you're doing. A week ago I was found, at the suggestion of our President, in Lesvos, an island that has been destroyed. That's enough! It's time to take our Greece back, and Evros and our islands, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u306	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u308	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Blouchos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many issues have been raised in the respective committee's discussions on the existence of our financial system on the basis of this legislation. The themes are entering the political dialogue with increasing intensity and in a way that is not characterised by elegance as a whole by opposition, in general neglecting the bill as such. This morally paradoxical attitude seems to be maintained, in many cases, in the plenary debate, betraying a sterile democratic presence. My dear ministers, today it is no longer a risk if the capitalist system continues to prevail, but above all that the Left has lost its critical reference to the fantastic structure of society and its revolutionary dogmatism is attributed to the sphere of superstitiousness. I believe, in other words, that any controversy is not a matter of ideological interpretation. Simply, the modern Left and much more its left representation in our country has exiled the desire to find a stigma in the obscurity of the unscientific and Paleolithic footprint of the past. Comment on topicality, let me. A Rafah, a thousand ICU beds, says the demagogic word of news. Five thousand if I heard well today from a representative of the Representation. Micropsy and micro-consciousness instead of national pride. Sad agnosia is this or malignant hypocrisy and has made sure that the public sphere is varnished yesterday and the other day, when we welcomed our first six superweapons with which we will defend our homeland. I say this with pain, because within me two images have been haunted very recently since autumn 2020 since the attack of Azeri and Turks on the Armenian Cabins of Nagorno Karabakh in residential areas, where an entire hospital had been destroyed, which had clearly and had beds in it. That is why the Rafas, ladies and gentlemen, for this reason the freshmen Belaras, and the view in the penitentiaries of the twin wall, the Castanes or Antimachia of Kos. It was considered rather by the opposition that instead of talking about the legislation on the modernisation of the Law of Competition, it was a good opportunity to criticise, in fact, the current, the energy, the supermarkets and elsewhere. And this, despite the fact that the rise in prices, the inflationary phenomenon is not ours, but it is international - inflationary pressures towards our economy - are imported - despite the fact that inflation is lower in our country than the European average. It is the third lowest in the Eurozone, as is pointed out daily by government officials. Yet, the inability of the stranded mind to read the truth of things, statistics and figures is obvious because of the demagogic selfishness policy, aimed at creating intensified disorientation and ignoring the risk. Although our country has the lowest rises in twelve of the fourteen main product categories monitored and compared in the countries of the European Union, despite the fact that the government has already made significant progress in the last quarter of last year and continues as far as necessary to support households' available income, which is compressed by the rises in oil and gas, and despite the fact that the communications services, whose prices in our country are well above the average of the European Union, do not fall within the competence of the Competition Committee, it is clear and clear that the legislator's intention to upgrade the Competition Committee should be consistent with which everyone who sees the framework of a modern Western society, a liberal market economy, which cannot function without competition rules. It is also clear that there are problems in product and service markets where a deficit of competitiveness has been established and that the level of competition as a whole has been improved in our economy. Any other turn to speak about this legislation, that is to say, an effort which will facilitate business and investment by regulating competition, which is obviously being made in order to bring jobs, produce wealth, help the consumer, puts the Left before his or her responsibilities for any setback in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no money just like that. Someone has to produce and pay them. It's called a taxpayer. Professionals - small, medium-sized, larger - compete with themselves and with each other to survive, float, and then grow, to give the citizen a competitive relationship of quality and honor in their profession. Trust in the market, in the economy, in the development horizon, what we naturally call faith and is based on relationship, therefore, trust is built hard and painfully, while it is being cut to the minimum time. The first half of the '15s isn't far away from us. Money, investment, do not come to states with unreasonable taxation, to states that are smuggling each individual with unreasonable demands. Investments, too, do not come to countries with great taxation, complex justice, incredible bureaucracy, the three sworn enemies of entrepreneurship. Money does not produce the state-owned general public nor any trade union. Money is produced by the permanently strangled private sector. The entrepreneur state, the research state, the state-innovator has spent all over the world. Conservation of the infamous monster only produces damage and corruption. The state must regulate the competition and its roles of every factor in our economic life. To end with the socialist delusions or delusions of the populist right, the state is only a regulator and legislator, taking care of three major public goods such as the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, public security, public health and public education. Here, this piece of legislation takes another step towards facilitating the production of wealth and opening up of the labour market, to facilitate the citizen, to every citizen, thanks to this liberal concept of the Mitsotakis Government. Just one minute, Mr President, and one amendment I tabled today, and I thank our Minister for making it acceptable. It concerns special conditions on construction for the construction of a new Municipal Pool in Dramas Municipality, a very important project. Our old swimming pool, due to a crisis of inappropriateness from stasis studies, has been closed for two years. The appropriate studies have been carried out, the funding has been found, there is also a private benefactor in our area that will help deliver to our local society a free, modern swimming pool. The trace of the new swimming pool under construction does not differ or is rather less than the existing trace of that swimming pool, but possibly due to the administration's tangles or dead ends over the last year, it has not been possible or possible to be licensed. Thank you very much for the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, as well as the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, who accept this amendment. We are talking about delivering to the local society of Drama a swimming pool in which more than a thousand people are athletic. Active bathing group, the region's club, has more than eight hundred eighty members. It's very important. A great thank you from the whole of dramatic society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u310	I will now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, to place him on it under a general number of 1193 and a special number of 108 amendments. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Interior deals with the following issues. It regulates an issue raised in the new regulation for the implementation of the system of selecting Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Governors, Deputy Governors, Deputy Governors, Governors, and Chief Executive Officers of Lawyers, as well as the legal persons of private law whose choice belongs to the Government. As you know, this procedure is now taking place in the AACC, and that is where the following interpretative question arose, whether the procedure will remain in force, which in some cases is foreseen. It is for the parliamentary hearing or the provision of an opinion by the relevant Parliamentary bodies, whether this is the Conference of Presidents, be it the Committee on Institutions and Transparency or other parliamentary committees. There was a doubling of interpretation. I think that it was quite clear in the previous regulation that the procedure was maintained, but there was one question as to whether this arrangement was a younger one, so we are now resolving it with this provision, and it is clear that the procedure is being maintained before Parliament. Therefore, Parliament does not lose its role, maintains its role in this process, which, otherwise, is respected as I describe. It also regulates another issue that has been dealt with these days, the issue of special-purpose licences. I think that we have had the debate on this issue in the private sector. It was supported by the Minister responsible this morning. As far as the public sector is concerned, we are now regulating the provision for the five-day period if there is child disease. Let me say this, so that there is no misunderstanding. A child's health insurance framework exists. There is a special law, there is a licence that workers may receive in public if they are ill. So there was that. What are we doing here? We're doing something else. Why? Because precisely because of the pandemic we have an increased number of them. It was therefore considered appropriate and appropriate for the government to make a special provision in the case of the treatment of children from COVID, where the worker in the public sector now has to stay at home to take care of his child. What's the setup we're doing? We are giving the five-day, three-day special-purpose leave, but the worker must use two days of normal leave. There is therefore a weighting here, if you wish, of the interests in order to balance, but the truth is that we give three additional days of leave. There was a question which I must tell you that it has dealt with us, particularly with the question of teachers, because there is an extremely difficult task for them. The choice we make here to weigh it is that, in fact, in any case, there are two priority workers to obtain this special-purpose leave will have a non-educational worker. If I have two parents, one is an educator, the other is not an educationer, the other will take the leave of the other parent, not the teacher, in order to stay in school. I think that this is absolutely reasonable here the weighting of interests that is being taken on this issue. Otherwise, the general licensing framework applies. Therefore, as far as the public is concerned, the issues of the special-purpose licence are thus regulated. In Article 4, there is the issue of suspensions created. I'm talking about inhibitions on unvaccinated sanitary diseases. There was, therefore, a question of interpretation which was created as to whether it was possible for the period of suspension to change or for private work to be carried out on a fee basis and generally for the period of suspension to be granted. It is therefore clear that this is obviously not reasonable at all. I mean, on the one hand, he's on parole, but we'll give him permission to do private work. This makes no sense, does not serve the purpose of the provision and, in general, the purpose and philosophy of the measure concerned. It is therefore regulated that this is not allowed. There is also one clarification on the issues of mobility in Article 5, but it concerns political officials for courts, prosecutors and general committees of the country. There, in addition to the classic mobility, we are also setting a stage where we regulate that the directors of the public prosecutors in the public prosecutors to whom they belong can submit an opinion to the competent judicial board on the applications submitted and perhaps the most important for the current period is that they can rely on the current second cycle of mobility in 2021, which I have to say to know since Mr. Haritsis is here, that from the time of the mobility legislation in 2016 in 2021 is the first year that has been implemented with complete accuracy and accuracy and time, but especially with regard to the mobility cycles, the law. The Act defines the existence of a first cycle of mobility - done - planning recruitment and then the second cycle of mobility. This is the first time since 2016. This year we have fully implemented it and I must tell you that the results are extremely positive. And Article 6 provides for an increase in the hours spent in the afternoon overtime of employees in the civil service centres, in the JEPs, obviously because there are additional needs and requirements here, which arise in the context of the treatment of pandemics. These are the provisions, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u314	Here you go, Mr. Haritsi. You want to ask something? Only for a question you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u315	One comment to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u316	The comment you make in your place. Here, you have the floor to make a comment. This is all part of your overall speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u317	We have more to say in the speech. To say both about the bill and the issues of accuracy and competition. The Minister for Labour took sixteen minutes to justify the unjustified. You did it in six minutes. My warmest congratulations, Minister, to you. I should also like to say that thankfully you do not have the opportunity to reduce the wages, to reduce the remuneration of officials in the public sector. Well, that's why I guess that's what your government would do. From there on, I find it unacceptable that you are presenting the opportunity as an extra leave - and, in fact, you are limiting it to three days, the other two are the normal leave, aren't they? - to parents whose children are ill by COVID. In these circumstances we have forty thousand cases in students only these days after these holidays. What should be done is what the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group contains, that is to say, permit parents, students' working parents and the public and private sectors, with the self-evident possibility of extending them for as long as they continue to be ill. It doesn't appear. We have too many examples that, in the five days, this process of illness will, unfortunately, be completed on many occasions. There should therefore be this provision and, of course, there should not be such an unacceptable regulation, which deprives workers in the public sector of the possibility of using a special licence, but actually force them after three days to make use of their normal licence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u320	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u321	I think that what Acoustic Opposition does not appreciate here and creates the impression of the existence of an institutional vacancy, and that is why Mr Haritsis has not been taken into account in his position is that there are provisions. It is not that we are legislating for the first time on what is happening with the disease of children. There are provisions. So we come and instead, Mr Haritsis, to suffice to the existing provisions, we do something to add. We give three days more. One will be able to say: Why only three days empty? Give as many as you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u322	Yeah, whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u323	Fifteen, twenty-five, thirty-five, forty-five. The answer is here as much as is required. You didn't set a limit. So the answer here to this by someone who has been a Minister of the Interior is that it is not to wonder that you say that, because you obviously do not have the proper functioning of the service, you do not take it into consideration and you do not care about it. We therefore need to make weightings here and instead of being content with the existing framework, we are giving more. However, we obviously make weightings, because we are obviously interested in the proper functioning of the service. Obviously, apart from satisfying these issues and giving the additional coverage, we must take care that these are balanced here. So no one wonders - me, I'm not surprised that SYRIZA's position on this - is precisely because the approach....
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u324	It's about the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u325	What happened? Do we have a situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u326	That's a big deal. It's called pandemic the huge issue we've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u327	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u328	That's right, Mr. Haritsi. It is the pandemic that I have said from the outset how you perceive the pandemic issue in opposition. It is the opposition of the "on two" or "on three" in all. When we gave the farmers 150 million here, you were telling us to give 300. When we gave the farmers 300 million, you told us to give 600. When we gave 600, you told us to give 1 billion 200. When we hired thousands of sanitaries, you told us to double the number. When we doubled the beds in the ICUs, you told us to quadruple them. We give three days' leave, and you tell us to give six. It is the well-known opposition of the 'by two'. We know her, we've lived her, but the Greek society has understood her. It is a dead-end, poor, populist and zero-neutral approach to counter-population.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u330	Mr Haritsis, we must not do this ping-pong, because today in the Conference of Presidents we have discussed this, but Members are also protesting earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u331	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u332	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u333	I did not expect the Minister of Interior to use the argument I heard earlier from the Minister of Labour. You're talking about fixed case law again. Are you talking about fixed devices again as if we were in a normality? Have you realised that we are in a pandemic, that we have twenty-two thousand dead, that we have twenty-three thousand cases a day, that we have six hundred eighty permeated right now in Greek hospitals? You spoke about the proper functioning of the service. Of course, we are also concerned about that. Above all, we are concerned about the proper functioning of society, but, Minister, at the moment, of the families, which they are seeing at the moment. I don't really understand what people you live in. Are you aware of what is happening right now to Greek families with cases, what is going on in their family planning, parents, students? In these struggles we come to answer. That is why we have tabled an amendment, which I believe gives an answer to these concerns. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, too. And we continue with the list of Members of Parliament. And I call on the New Democracy MP, Mrs. Silina Skondra.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. However, Mr Haritsis, your overall attitude so far has not shown that you are so concerned with pandemic as you want to show here today. And as regards what the Minister, Mr Vorides, said, two times, Mr Vorides and three, when he is in the opposition, because when he is in the government, he is in half and half. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a very interesting debate on the bill which essentially incorporates a directive of the European Union. In other words, it could be said that this bill by definition contains no signs of political friction that justify parliamentary confrontation. However, once again it proves how low anti-population is in this place. So while all the wings in Parliament - with the exception of perhaps the JRC - are the supporters of the European Union, this has not prevented you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, from using the arrangements of this European directive for a cheap opposition effort, muddling and propaganda, thinking that you will hit the Minister of Development and thus the government. Only in this way can one interpret the criticism points made by the rapporteurs of the opposition parties in this draft law. It is a bill that amends the rules of Law 3959/2011 on the protection of competition, conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States, so that they can enforce more effectively the rules of the proper functioning of the internal market. It is a draft law modernising national competition law to address those gaps and weaknesses, where existing legislation has not been able to provide solutions. A number of arguments have been put forward by the opposition, some of which belong to the sphere of science fiction, and some of which were just a misappropriated slander, as I said before, the government, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis and the Minister of Development, Adoni Georgiadis. Colleagues have referred to PPC and the increasing cost of energy. Others have tried to criticise the government's decision to come to the cost of the PCR tests, and, finally, some others have tried to take responsibility for inflation in all the countries of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely find it difficult to follow the absurdity of your thinking. The questions you raised by the Minister himself in response to the meetings of the committee responsible, and indeed, in personal attacks, he revealed and documented your artificial slandering myth. It is clear and well-known that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has never followed the method of promises and palogy. We are a deeply liberal party, we believe in the principles of free market and healthy competition. We believe that this model is the best and globally proven solution for the development and prosperity of a state and for improving the standard of living of its citizens. For this reason, the Prime Minister's decision was made by the Pissaridis Committee, composed of the Nobelist Professor and other internationally established economic scientists, to prepare an integrated Greek economy development study for the years to come, taking into account the specificities, recent developments and international trends. Our aim is for our national economy over the next decade to converging further with the European average, to increase real income per capita and to strengthen social cohesion. To achieve this, there is a need for an increase in employment and productivity. We are therefore steadily reducing unemployment rates and, at the same time, creating new jobs. We attract new investments both domestic and foreign. We also facilitate new innovative production methods and new technologies. All this, however, presupposes a proper functioning of competition, because without competition the market is not free and cannot function properly. This is where the need for these regulations arises, since the Greek market is indeed having a malfunction of healthy competition. It is a situation that is gradually improving, at the current juncture of international increases in energy and oil prices, as well as the shortages in production - as a result of the durability of the world economy over the past two years due to a pandemic - clearly creates inflationary pressures. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the strengthening of the Committee on Competition and its role in the market, greater transparency in the selection procedures of its members, the introduction of more effective methods of implementing competition law, the modernisation of competition rules, such as the prohibition on partnership and announcing future invoicing of products between competitors, all these clearly move in the right direction, because they create a clearer place for competition, because they provide more effective safeguards and because it is another tool that supports the faster and better development of our economy both at domestic and international level. That is why I would call on the Opposition to vote for it, but I will not do so because I thought, here, SYRIZA did not vote for the defensive expenditure, did not vote for the Greek agreement, did not even vote for the support measures for citizens from natural disasters and from the pandemic, today's bill would vote? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u336	We are also grateful for Mrs Skondra and for the consistency in time. And the floor now is given by the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Publics. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government leads the country to growth and economic upturn. Essential supporter is ecumenical Hellenism. Proof that on January 12, 13 and 14, the President of the World Interparliamentary Union of Hellenism was found in the Prefecture of Evros. The Greek Senators and MPs of PAFE denominations and senators of foreign countries and are the best ambassadors in Greece. From Kastani to Alexandroupolis, the presidium headed by the U.S. Senator Leonida Raptakis visited all the towns of the prefecture. Our relatives are the missing heroes of the beneficial agreements that have already been reached and those that will be achieved in the future. The hurting triangle of the seventeen villages needs an integrated plan for direct support. The economic downturn, the lack of jobs is a source of responses that are found in the north and central Evros, and that is what we need to recognise the law and the truth. We have received from our predecessors a definite situation in migration on both the islands and the Evros. They lost the game at sea and land borders because of their ideology and inability. The creation of structures, obviously, became a central theme of discussions with our partners. The Government in March 2020 kept the border in Evros, because that is where the country's "ETNA - Top Secret" plans are applied and there is no consistent border structure. It has provided valuable funding for managing the migration issue. The lack of infrastructure for human conditions of detention and work is evident and completely declining. At the Orestiada Prison is located the reception and identification centre, the well-known CYT, for which has been made clear by the Prime Minister himself by the Government representative from the 1-3-2021 that there will be no extension and no increase in this capacity. Also in the same settlement is the pre-retrospective centre, the so-called PROKEKA, where are the organized detentions of the Greek Police which serve the seven border guards of the county. It was quite crystal, however, also a statement by the Minister for Civil Protection in the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence, that detention positions in this, in the old and new infrastructures that will be made, will not exceed three hundred and seventy-five posts, as has been laid down for fifteen years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the issues are in detail. The capacity of the two structures is not increased. The proposals of the joint ministries - National Defence, Citizen Protection and Migration Protection - as well as the institutional actors of local society were adopted by the government, such as: The launch of biological cleansing for the protection of public health, the creation of a COVID room for thirty people, the construction of an administration, leaving the wounded carpets are in the plans alone. Unfortunately, recently, some strange circles have been conducting psychological operations by breaking up false news in the region and even by afflicting the noble inhabitants of the region. I am addressing all parties in opposition and stress that Evros cannot be a field of opposition to candidate policies. We also do not have the luxury of conflicts near borders. Those who visit our country or speak of it must be signifiers of peace and national unity. The Government has taken adequate measures of physical, technical, electronic and electrical border protection, as evidenced by statistics. Minister, the answer to the concern of the people of Northern Evros is only growth. The place will be strengthened by an organised development policy plan as you plan. The pleasant developments in the capital of our county have prerequisites for the defence and development support of the northern and central Evros. The new development law called "Greece Strong Development" can be a useful tool that will include specific policies for sparsely populated areas that are declining populations. A similar proposal has been made by the Chamber of Economics of Greece. It refers to the amendment by the European Union of Regulation 651 of April 2021. There is a better reference to the sparsely populated areas of a Member State. ‘In order to prevent or halt the decline in population in very sparsely populated areas, the Member States must demonstrate the risk of population reduction in case of no operating aid’. On the basis of this opportunity it has proposed that this possibility be used for additional incentives in areas with a population reduction in order to ensure additional incentives in areas such as the Orestiad Triangle, such as an increase in the subsidy amount, contributing to the retention of the population. The bill under discussion goes towards the development perspective of Greek entrepreneurship and economy by achieving the overall improvement of national law, competition and the country's international competitiveness. The Competition Committee shall be strengthened and strengthened and equipped with innovative tools and new control powers in order to exercise more effectively its powers and to implement Union and national competition law. For this reason, Mr President, I am voting in favour of this law by remaining unmovable in my position that it is an inalienable national need to develop near borders, especially in Evros and the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u338	Thank you too, Mr Prussakis. Mr Papalieou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor now - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today and under the present circumstances the market and competition are composed of flat and multiplier elements since transactions include many 'players' involved in complex and interrelated activities. It is no longer limited to local, national, even pan-European, but globally. In addition, e-commerce and e-commerce are constantly expanding. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill introduced in an extremely critical period includes regulations which deal with the improvement of the Competition Committee. What is the environment in which it is imported? Precision to foodstuffs and other essential consumer goods is now a regime. It is through it that small and medium-sized and public households are severely affected and social cohesion is threatened. Increases in energy are explosive. The costs of production, raw materials and transport have hit red. Enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and farms, are hitting the maximum. On the other hand, citizens' incomes are constantly falling because of government policy. The thirteenth pension that had been voted on in the SYRIZA government has been abolished, thus the income of pensioners is being drastically reduced or rather not sufficient to survive. At the same time, wages are being reduced by multiple anti-government laws, such as the one concerning unpaid dime. The famous increase in basic salary, a crucial tool to deal with accuracy, is limited to "flying" or is based on cloudy announcements for May. Thus, the basic salary is set at lower levels than those of 2010. The obligation to repay tax debts goes hand-in-hand without reducing them. The limited aid programme for enterprises does not balance the extent of the damage suffered. The price of electricity, of natural gas, of energy has hit red. Their appreciations are huge. Government choices, concerning measures to support those affected by pandemic and accuracy, are insufficient. You should: To increase the minimum wage to EUR 800 - it is from the proposals that have been made for us - in order to protect the income available as well as to stimulate consumption. To abolish the trade fee. To abolish the solidarity levy up to EUR 40,000. To reduce excise duty on heating oil, diesel and petrol to the lowest permitted European levels. To reduce PPC's pricing, so that this reduction would lead to other providers, even though PPC is now privatised by the Government of New Democracy and the State does not have a strong lever for energy policy through this and social policy. The debts of households, created during the pandemic period, need to be addressed and there must be exceptional support for farmers, for the people of the day-to-day fighting in the countryside. The draft law, rather than incorporating properly and in accordance with its objective of the Community Directive 2019/1, uses it as a pretext to serve other, different objectives of government policy on the functioning of the Competition Committee. It deprives and does not exploit the relevant tested and effective practices used by European countries, such as ‘correction of discretion’, to address informal oligopolistic pricing practices. The Government, and through this legislation, does not intervene in critical areas, essentially by weakening the Competition Committee, which can and should be a tool for market regulation and, above all, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and households. In this context, the Government has removed from the bill positive forecasts in its original version when it had been put into public consultation. In this way, the concept of an eco-system is removed by which the Competition Committee could exercise control over telecommunications, courier and online services platforms. The Committee's responsibilities are not extended to include those areas which are of structural importance to competition and are crucial to the daily lives of citizens and to the development of healthy entrepreneurship. These companies, in their heaviest position, when they choose to expand to adjacent activities have huge advantages as they have daily contact with the citizen and, in addition, develop economies of scale that can be achieved by providing, making offers. Thus, de facto distortion of competition is caused. In spite of the initial announcements, the Competition Committee will not be able to automatically monitor its abuse of power, for example by an undertaking belonging to an ‘economy’ of structural importance for competition, such as a platform linking economic activities of different undertakings with a different object. It will not, for example, be able to control a telecommunications company operating in the ready-to-eat distribution market and giving free speaking time, for example. By weakening the Competition Committee even more, the Government did not adopt the Committee's own proposals on how to serve it. The proposal was not accepted to participate in the selection of the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee and experts from international organisations, practice - a model followed for the appointment of the President of the Hellenic Statistical Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the Government does not support the Competition Committee with this bill, it does not make it an effective tool for controlling competition and regulating the market. The bill continues its discriminatory choices, insists on ideological and class discriminatory practices and refuses to take steps to address the explosive social problems that are growing daily.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u340	Close, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u341	I shall conclude, Mr President. One example of how the situation on the market is dealt with and how society, people of the labour market, is approached. The social well-being which you have is reflected in the amendment on special leave. Of course, we have a large number of late-term amendments to the bill in the context of the 'good' - in introductory terms - legislating by your Government, the New Democracy government. With the amendment on the special-purpose leave, parents are actually punished by a 50% reduction in their earnings when or because their children were found positive in the coronary. Therefore, in this way, and more so by the fact that only four days are envisaged to obtain a special permit, even if the arrangement laid down by you by No 4722/2020 is abolished. The amendment is a characteristic of your social analgesia and of the management of the pandemic. Our demand, which is also a request from many colleagues and, of course, from the SYRIZA as a whole, is to be changed immediately so as to provide for the compensation of parents with 100% of their salary, by adding additional days and by extending them in case of a positive test for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u342	The floor is now for the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Panagis Cappatos, and then - to safeguard the series because some changes have been made - the reason will be for SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charas Kafantaris and immediately thereafter SYRIZA's MP Mr. Nikos Papas. Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the primary objective of a coherent and effective policy on the protection of competition is to defend the competitive process, namely to promote a culture of competition that is contrary to all forms of intervention or to limit the right of access to the free economy. Moreover, the existence of a competitive business environment only for the benefit of consumers can function. In order to ensure the proper functioning of markets, a number of policies that prevent or correct behaviour that undermine competition are necessary. An integrated competition policy therefore takes into account agreements between undertakings with a view to limiting competition, the formation of a cartel or other unfair practices which impose their own rules on the market. A serious competition policy monitors both the abuse of a dominant position, where a large market share company seeks to displace its competitors and the mergers of undertakings which take place in a non-legislative manner. From that policy we are talking about, there is no absence of the liberalisation of markets in sectors that, until now, constituted a State monopoly. Ensuring the absence of a competitive advantage for the old monopolies in the liberalisation process is a parameter for both the core of the theory and of the practice of protecting free competition. The monitoring of State aid to enterprises on whether or not they distort competition conditions are in this debate, while cooperation between the national competition authorities of the countries of the European Union is necessary to ensure the uniform application of the competition rules across the Union. The draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment on the modernisation of competition law in the digital age responds to these issues. This project attempts a two-tier intervention: the incorporation into the Greek legal order of the European Directive 2019/1, on the provision of competences to the competition authorities of the Member States, with a view to more effective enforcement of national and Union competition rules and the amendment of competition law, namely n. Date of birth: 3959/2011. With the legislation under discussion, we have put in place a series of regulations which are both short- and long-term. Amongst other things, we confirm the need for proper application of competition law, we are attempting to ensure the uniform application of competition rules in Europe and Greece. We contribute to improving the effectiveness of the Competition Committee and the quality of its staff. We ensure the proper functioning of the market and strengthen the deterrent capacity of the Competition Committee to anti-competitive practices in the digital economy. Finally, in the context of the health and economic crisis, we are protecting the rights of the parties in the procedures before the committee. In view of the particular nature of the environment for the protection of competition it is necessary for us to adopt a long-term framework. Moreover, the smooth monitoring of business and the deterrent effect of a competition policy are the development of a comprehensive, sustainable framework time-saving policy. Modernising the competitive environment in our country is one of those long-term objectives which are part of the legislative philosophy I have described. The further strengthening of the independence and efficiency of the Competition Committee, the improvement of the level of competition in the Greek economy and the competitiveness of Greek enterprises in international markets, as well as the support for innovation in the growth of the consumer surplus are priorities that fall within the logic that I have tried to describe to you. Ladies and gentlemen, given the timing of my speech, let me refer to specific amendments to Law 3959/2011 which my own reading considered particularly important. The first concerns strengthening the independence of the members of the Competition Committee and the Directorate-General for Competition. This draft law introduces a new selection method for rapporteurs and members of the committee, with provision for competition and participation in the expert committee procedure. At the same time, they are incompatible with the OECD recommendations in order to improve the functioning of the Competition Committee and to strengthen its independence. The second reference is identified in the ‘SECTOR’ programme. The programme that is currently in force is in line with EU law provides for the introduction of a new chapter in which, in addition to the regulations on the EMPLOYMENT programme, there are also existing provisions on the dispute settlement programme, as well as provisions on mutual assistance. With regard to the modernisation of the competition rules, we also see legislative intervention that deserves to be pointed out. The first is linked to the request to strengthen the powers of investigation by the Competition Committee. With a view to the effective implementation of the powers of the Competition Committee, proper mapping of markets is a key condition in the functioning of the Authority. For this reason, further reporting possibilities are introduced, such as the right of the Competition Committee to collect information in any digital format. At the same time, the committee is being given the opportunity to request the removal of telecommunications confidentiality, thereby strengthening its powers of investigation against cartels. Given the rapid development of the economy in the digital environment, the Committee on Competition's investment in the field of data technology and science is vital in the fight to protect free competition. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my report with a reference to the current timeliness which in no way leaves us indifferent. Yesterday's tradition - Receipt of the first six-fighting aircraft of the Rafah type following the great defensive agreement between Greece and France - is, for our country's opportunity and reminder at the same time, an opportunity to upgrade our country's operational, geopolitical and deterrent power and a reminder that both freedom and security are a matter of constant vigilance that requires from us the appropriate institutional and strategic readiness shown by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The programme that monopolies the public debate is not detached from our country's overall national foreign and defence policy strategy. Today, 20 January, it is one year since the vote on the extension of our territorial waters to the Ionian region from six to twelve miles. Greece is expanding spatially, strengthening defensively and taking the lead diplomatically in the wider area of our geopolitical interest. As a parliamentary majority and a political force of responsibility, we are here to underline and legislate initiatives that go our homeland a great deal ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u344	And we thank Mr. Cappato for the economy of time. The reason for this is, after the Step is settled, the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Ms. Hara Kafantaris, and then, as I said, Mr. Nikos Papapas, then Christos Giannoulis and then he goes and say, everyone I see present.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a word on the arrangements for parents who are ill. Analgesia, perhaps even a lack of social empathy, would be seen in this regulation, which the Minister responsible is trying to justify, in fact, as if he were punishing parents for being responsible for their children, while at the same time raising a problem in the spread of the virus. Let's think about it. We tabled an amendment as a SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance. The doctrine of the New Democracy, which we very much hear in these two and a half years'markets will regulate themselves, we cannot intervene', this is a classic attitude of the government of Mr Mitsotakis, who monitors trains to pass, that is, monitors the accuracy, monitors the pandemic, but everything is from abroad, we cannot do anything. But also, in fact, in relation to the draft law we have been discussing in good time for over six months now, it has been placed on the need for concrete measures, which will first of all have to do with market controls, with a reduction in excise duty on heating oil and fuels in general, and, of course, even if it is abolished, a measure which has been introduced by Prime Minister Samaras. Of course, also a reduction in VAT on basic foodstuffs, international negotiations, cooperation on price reductions at international level and above all, protection of our weak fellow citizens who are becoming more and more. About PPC, of course, we certainly have to say that Mr Hatzidakis has just taken over from 2019 the Ministry of Energy - now he is a Minister of Labour - has said that healthy competition, with regard to private suppliers of electricity, will drop prices. It's been two and a half years and we see the exact opposite. We are champions, in the first and second place pan-European, at the wholesale energy price and when the price we bought was higher, while internationally the price had fallen very much in wholesale trade, we continued at a high price which was passed on to consumers as well. And I'm talking about March - April 2020. But that is not all, Minister. Have the various energy providers, energy companies and contracts signed by people and consumers ever been checked? I had examples in particular, a breach of even contracts, when he went from one company to another consumer, i.e. a lack of control. That's what characterizes you. Of course, you may not be aware of the price rise. You have said, of course, that it is only the energy that is charged and that, anyway, they want to take pictures with you. Come to Peristeri, come to St. Anargyros, to a cafeteria, in a oven. Come talk to the world, with the simple world that is really groaning. ‘Are there any money?’ New Democracy asks. There aren't any. Yes, but are there leaf trees, but for whom? There are for the few, the chosen, the 'excellent' companies in the media, the media, the airlines, 120 million in 'Aegean', for those who have enriched - and they are enough - by exploiting pandemic. And anyway, I don't know what relationship they might have with the government. Well, for some people, there are. Is there any control on the market? No, there's no control on the market. I said it before. This really is a very serious matter. And, of course, another third question: is that finally ending? How many times have you and the government said that it 'finishes any minute now, in three months will the accuracy be over, will things be normalized'? It is as often as - perhaps more - that we are going through this last mile of Mr Mitsotakis, go ahead and end the pandemic, the last mile we go and say. Is your policy compatible with the European Union and the other European countries and with the aspect of accuracy and competition, since we are discussing a specific draft law? No, because other countries have taken action. They have also taken measures for energy companies, such as in Spain which have additional taxes, measures in particular and a cap. You dismantled PPC, privatised it, while it could play a leading role in price formation, because it is in your DNA that the privatisation of whatever public. And one year later, you come to ratify this European directive, which had to be ratified last year and which also concerns the Competition Authority. But you have shown from the first moment you have assumed that what you really are interested is in intervening, influencing, using - take it, as you want, I don't know what verb is the most appropriate - and the independent authorities. This was reflected in the entire procedure that was carried out to allow Mrs Thanou to leave the Competition Authority before the end of her term of office - and even by violating the European Court of Justice which ruled on the obligation to respect the completion of the terms of office of the independent authorities. If it is violated, the independence of the independent authority itself is effectively destroyed. If it's not independent... On the other hand, even the head of authority pointed out some issues, such as the cutting-up of the committee by the National Commission for Posts and Telecommunications. This is the case in all the European countries practically, in the EU and in the OECD countries, while the President and Vice-President are nominated by the government. Anyway, some role may have, a "long hand" of the government's power to guide them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, measures here and now to save society. We have made concrete proposals both to the pandemic and to the issues of accuracy that strike the poor household and the middle class. Count here and now. Know that our proposal for a political change in this place is ripe and, I would say, quickly starts and grows in society, but that is not the issue. The question is to save what can be saved today and not to live images that I at least had many years to see and saw a month and a half ago, looking for food in the trash. Not to get back there, at that famous 2012-2015. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Nikos Pappas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, the debate on this bill is taking place in the light of dramatic developments in the pandemic, and, above all, the majority Members here, when they come to the Rapid Party to call and be politicised, because developments are so painful for society. Minister, the hard indicators of pandemic show that we're going from bad to worse. We exceed one country after another in the loss index per million. We were two-three months ago in position fifty worldwide, and right now that we're talking, we're in position thirty-four. I would like to invite you to ask your colleagues to provide you with information about the country's position in the tubed per million - from the light, of course, of the shocking revelations that there was the Chiodra - Lytra study, which said that more than four hundred seams are rapidly reducing the effectiveness of the public health system. These life losses we have just because people don't have the possibility early, when they see the symptoms, quickly see a doctor, get advice and react. So, I insist that when you talk about the pandemic, you should speak by measure rather than by preoccupation. Developments are painful and unfortunately, our country under your responsibility has come to be a championship. You have also had the consent of the political world and the consent of the people in the first wave and you have not exploited it. A little self-criticism wouldn't hurt. Healthy competition: The only healthy competition I could think of is competition between the ministers for who best serves the strong interests in his area of responsibility. Only there could one see healthy competition, because at the moment we have no healthy competition and no protection of the market and society. Inflation, unfair practices and labels made by entrepreneurship itself. And, of course, the shock of energy prices does not let it happen to fall on Greek entrepreneurship. For you it is a welcome piece of the puzzle that needs to be completed to implement the Pissaridis report, its main philosophy. It is for you that a gift was inspired and another pressure on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which will also suffer its exclusion from financial instruments and the fact that there is no brave debt regulation, which accumulated during the pandemic crisis and the fact that it is excluded from the Recovery Fund and, more recently, that it is called upon to bear all the burden of increased energy prices. So it's a huge test, and it's, I think, something that didn't miss you, but you really let it happen. These complaints were heard by the representatives of the Competition Committee in this bill. We believe that there are also photographic provisions, because you are establishing that no one who has been stopped in the past can be appointed. We remember exactly what you did in 2019. You have a bad past in relation to how you behaved to the independent authorities, very bad past. I do not want to rename it, so that it does not lead to a debate, which does not correspond to the importance of the moment and of this bill, but here I think you are taking initiatives which are very characteristic. The same is true of the Regulatory Authority, which is responsible for taking responsibility and taking responsibility for it, when it is investigating whether competition is being observed in the field of transport and, of course, in the maintenance of rolling stock. Mr Georgiadis, we have heard too many times government officials say that the phenomenon of accuracy is transient. It is not temporary because, of course, there are international developments that cause it and what is happening with Nord Stream, the gas pipeline and the crisis in Ukraine are not phenomena that are in the near future to retreat. What does that mean? Does it mean you're not responsible? No, because the phenomenon of international price increases within the country is maximized, we get a championship there too. And at the wholesale energy price we get a pan-European championship every day, notice what prices are. So there are your own responsibilities, because there is no control over cartels, there is no market intervention, and, of course, there is not even one retrospectively important intervention, emphatic on the part of the state, so as to alleviate the burden of increased prices on all products. But is that possible? Can it be done? Do we have any money? The public energy company in France a few days ago, at the request of the French Government, - because we have excellent relations with France, as we all know - decided to bear a cost of EUR 10 billion to reduce the accounts. 10 billion euros! Let me remind you here that the French electricity company is by 86% public, in the hard public sector, and the rest belongs to institutional investors and workers' associations. So here you guys have the reverse course. We see how a public business can interfere in the market, as PPC did during SYRIZA governance. Because in Greece, unfortunately, we have a late - i.e. chronologically - neoliberalism, there is a very interesting study that in Greek the title is "The future is public, toward a democratic ownership of public services". It is composed of the synergy of about twenty workers associations and the University of Glasgow. I have sat down and seen that it records three hundred and thirty-four cases of deprivation - listen to me - in the field of energy in Europe over the last decade. That's the trend. The trend is not what you have chosen to do, i.e. in secret, to privatise PPC and in a way that was just administratively excluded from an increase in capital. The country needs public PPC and this will be the priority of progressive governance and to regulate the market and to protect the weak households and to be a lever for the country as a whole and not a lever for private interests. Finally, the country needs to be reduced as well - and we have proposed it for some time now - and even lessen not within the framework of the budget, which you have agreed, which you have made the country an austerity champion in Europe with ten-twelfths fiscal corrections - austerity by 2024. Listen, listen. On a voluntary basis, Greece of 28% has a recession in the medium term in which it has a budgetary correction of more than ten units of GDP. That's your ideology, that's your strategy. So we also need progressive governance at the level of Europe to focus on changing the budgetary targets, as the SYRIZA government in 2015 did and succeeded in reducing Greece from 20 billion austerity, with which Samaras had committed it. Your wear is irreversible, it's accelerated. You know what we're learning too - it's absolutely certain - and you react spasmically. Unfortunately, you fail to hear the aid of the nearby events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, my colleague. I would like to thank the parliamentary representatives, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mrs Arabatzis. I imagine Mr Haritsis also agrees that the list of remaining three-four colleagues will be completed, and then Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Haritsis, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Arabatzis, will be given the floor and will be closed with the Minister. The rapporteurs will decide among themselves whether they want a dominance in order to complete the process. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will attempt to copy a method of the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, the method of striving and the imperative question to political opponents to confirm, not with a sense of interrogation. I see, Mr. Minister, Mr. Yoyakas. Last night he said that it is absolutely right and fair to notice the conditions; to cut 50% of the earnings of workers whose children are ill and have to spend with their children on the basis of family values five days in quarantine, even if they are not ill. It is beyond the political justification of the Hatzidakis amendment. Do you, too, share as a government official the term 'right and fair' being cut by 50% of the remuneration on the basis of accuracy and pandemic to the parents of the children who are ill? I don't expect an answer. Do you know why? Today, it is indicative that since 10 o'clock in the morning, he has raised a subject and a colleague of the government majority, Mr. Loverdos. This is the stressful abuse of your right under the Rules of Procedure to take the floor after every speaker who criticises you. You reminded me of the statement before Vyron Polydora, which said: "What I am doing." You do it by feeling the need to answer and apologise for everything that is hidden or you do not have the need to hide it - you do it unrealisticly - either through the bill or through your political rhetoric. I should like to ask you, however, at some point: do not force us to start approaching what you say with the literary expression 'So is if you think so'. So it is if you think that this measure affecting household income is just. So if you think so, Mr Georgiadis, the number of victims of pandemic, the losses is normal right now. So if you think so, Minister, and members of the Government, that at the moment, only protocol 50+1 is not revised in schools with forty - six thousand cases. So if that's how you think this bill doesn't have your eyewitness on Mrs Thanos' case. But re-insurance and vengeance are not exhausted there. Mr Pappas referred to the Regulatory Authority for Railways, the RAS. But, for God's sake. Finally stop having the face of Janus, the dual approach - and I told you the other day - by collecting valuable, kind and ironic comments at the same time, which is the second nature of the New Democracy's political practice. Decide which of the two persons is valid, the person contained in the article of the law you are tabling to the House, or the correspondence that has been preceded by you yourself to conclude what Mr Papapas said that the RA has an object and ensures that European data remains a competition control authority and on very serious issues. I will submit to the minutes your correspondence with your signatures by Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Karamanlis, Mr. Pikramenos and other government officials who are proposing and accepting the opposite of what you are legislating today. With what feature? The Foreign Ministry's document - will give me the opportunity to read it to you - which, in fact, validates what? It's official mail. Ministry of Foreign Affairs with all of you addressing you. Where does it end up with the question you've raised? ‘The Regulatory Authority for Railways applies not only the National but also the Union competition law in the exercise of its powers to impose sanctions’, etc. And you feel the need to degrade and eliminate this service, this agency. I don't know why, but I suspect. I also suspect something else, Mr Georgiadis: The way in which you legalise the abuse of the right that I described - Mr Loverdos sprayed you for the degradation of parliamentary work and parliamentary procedure - is an indication of the arrogance, vexation and poetry that leads many of you to support intimately, but also cynical, at the same time, the fact that homeland is not a profession, ladies and gentlemen. Homeland isn't a profession. The country's national defence effort has no party mark. The torch doesn't enter, the torch doesn't enter, the New Democracy logo doesn't enter. Home is not a profession, Mr Georgiadis, and now and when you were all together and you were co-administering and supporting the Macedonians and the capitals for the traitors of the government who sold Macedonia. Right now, and I want to tell you from the heart, as in the pandemic, in national matters, we are acting as a responsible political force and not as partymen, who gather the lights of publicity, photographed in front of the Rafahs to sell a picture. These are not merchandise, they are not sold and they are not redeemed in any piece. It's national responsibility, duty and obligation. I know that once again there will be abuse of the arrogance and the right that the Rules give you to overcome the logical reaction to what the Opposition says, do so. In any case, the world has an understanding and judgment to understand. But at the end, I would ask you to stop teaching us how good capitalism is because the capitalism you serve cannot legalise, Mr Georgiadis, even though it does not fall within your competences, the fact that PCRs are not currently prescribed for cancer patients. It's not about capitalism. This is the fault of your government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and those who support this government. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Do not try to solve differences of ideological nature, create misdemeanor dilemmas while Greece counts dead regardless of what they have voted, regardless of what they will vote, children who are ill, teachers who enter the class and shaking their brochure. And we all say this not for the sake of party egoism, as you are used to treat this country's political scene from post-Culture, regardless of whether you have discovered New Democracy at an earlier age than other colleagues in this Chamber. You can and you must separate what is national and what is party. The shouting of agony, the eighteen months of proposals specific and the clear answers to clear questions are your obligation, it is not your choice. Leave the theoretical approaches to how the market works, what side effects, what goodwill creates, how competition works. From the day before yesterday, the question has remained unanswered when you understood, Mr Minister of Development, as a citizen, as a man, as a father, as a politician, that the sum of EUR 60 could be smaller. When did you realize that? In March 2020, April, July, August 2021, before the first mile, after the green mile? At some point you realised. Do you think you reacted in time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, too. Good evening to you and me. Happy birthday to the Enthusiasm and the Happiness. Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u351	It is a good year, ladies and gentlemen, since it is the first time I have been talking in plenary over the years. Unfortunately, every time we talk in plenary, things go worse, in fact, and in the country's macro-economics, Mr Georgiadis, it all gets worse. And I tell you now that you are Minister, because you will soon be a member of the major opposition, and the country in front of it will have great difficulties. So now that you're Minister, tell me what changed the country's loan rate from 0.87% to 1.83%. Has the country's credibility changed? Oh, no. Has market confidence changed? Oh, no. Did he change the noteworthy thing? Oh, no. Did the country's prospects change? Oh, no. What's changed, Mr. Georgiadis? It changed the international environment. And the more the international environment will change, Mr Georgiadis, the more we will grow. And you know what that proves? How irresponsible, how shall I be and how presumptuous the strategy of communal celebrations was when the country was borrowing in a pool of liquidity all these two years. Because you have had an opportunity in these two years to build the economy, to build the social infrastructure, to build competitiveness, to really strengthen those who need it, to build a real social state, and you have not done so. And now it's starting up to everyone. And this is where everyone's powers will be measured. You were able to budgetaryly rule in the downhill because we made it up to you to have 37 billion to play kibaris. In the first period you taxed from those who have half a million euros and above, after parental benefits for those who own 800,000 euros or more. But now when they tell you about the fuel tax, when they tell you about the minimum wage, when they tell you about the VAT, which you said the other day, Mr. Stagiras disproved you, now 'no'. What happened a month ago, before the budget debate, you told us that the country is going vezin? How's the country? It's on the limit, it's on the lip of destruction, it's "vizin"? So we can understand. And since the economy goes "vizin", why can't you strengthen the weakest, so we can get through this difficult winter? Will you apologise for the pandemic? Every day seventy, eighty, ninety, a hundred ten dead a day! Where are we going? Why is that a failure? Why was that defeat? Who's to blame? What's the matter? What's the country's strategy? Why does Greece with a population of ten million have more dead than countries having twenty, thirty, forty, sixty-five, such as the United Kingdom? The day before yesterday we had ninety-five dead, we with ten million ninety-five as well. Why is that so? And you, instead of being conspired, celebrate, like Mr. Mitsotakis in early December at the ONNED conference that he defeated the pandemic. You'll tell me then we didn't know about the "Omicon" mutation, etc. Our scientists say Delta still kills. But in any case, Mrs Gaga, who is a good scientist, said that in two or three weeks' time we are ending. When did he say that? Twelve days ago. Isn't there a little shame in these things? Isn't there anyone to pick them up? There's no one to apologize? In fact, we have a drama. Mr Georgiadis, I will tell you, you are bringing hunger longer than the worst memorial years because you are watching the indicators go up and you are not interfering anywhere. Frozen houses! And don't tell me it's happening all over Europe. Of course, it is all over the world, but let us compare them to what is happening in other European countries and what is happening in Greece. And since it's happening all over the world, why did you tell the world in mid-September that he's gonna see a number of two or three euros? Why did you say that? You didn't know? You don't understand? Didn't you see in front of you? Why did you say that in mid-December the pressure on the market would have deviated? Didn't you read what Christine Lagard said? Is that Christine Lagard? So you said 'in two or three months'. What does "KATHMERINI" say yesterday? The European Commission, the Commission, says that the energy crisis will last two to three years. How are we gonna go two or three years? What choice did you make for the country to stand in crisis two to three years? Of course, PPC's share is up. It's a terrible argument. It wasn't an increase of 2 to 3 euros. PPC's stock grew. Yes, sir! Where is PPC's social character? How will the next governments, which will not be you, be able to make social policy? What tools? Can we please ask the privateer? You, where are you and the liberal economy, the market, do you know any individuals who are politicizing their mother's soul? I don't know. Why did you give PPC while you saw that we were in an energy crisis? Can I ask you something? So what's the matter with PPC? PPC, based on what you say, may be the only company in the world that is bankrupt, as you call it, became blue chip. Within a year, such a big company of bankrupties became blue chip. I've never seen that before. We must now go to Mr Voridis' amendment. Mr. Vorides, okay, since Mr. Hadjidakis has been in charge of placing private directors and deputy directors in EFKA, he is a Minister without a portfolio. Others arrange what happens to his responsibilities. But where he has responsibility - for the public I will speak - in the private sector it is shameful what you are doing. In an energy crisis and accuracy, where the other guy counts to get a gas tank to go to 50%? People who take 600-700-800 and 1,000 euros a month and work for fourteen hours a day are cut off half the wage. Why? Because the kid's in the hospital. Because you understand! Because you do not understand the world where its daily life depends on wages and makes me an impression on you, Mr Georgiadis, personally, because I separate you. Because I know you understand this world, that you are a folk politician. So let's go to the unpacked Minister of State, Mr. Voridis. What's he saying here? That if a child is ill, the parent takes five days off. Why is it taking them these five days? Because he mustn't go to work so he won't get stuck with his colleagues. Because he's got to keep an eye on the kid. What are these five days empty? It's three warranted and two normal licenses. Why does she take two days on a normal leave? So, what's going to change in the country if it takes five days of warranted permission? And Mr Vorides begins with the legal 'there was a legal framework there, I improved it and I made a balance'. What balance? Give me five days' regular leave. It's over and out. It's so simple, if you want to hear counter-proposals. And something security protocols, clipboards, if one parent works as a teacher, if the other is a doctor, etc. Do you have a mechanism to inspect them? I've been chasing him for two and a half months here, four thousand people died and still haven't done it, and all over Europe they do. And he said to me: 'We have no proposals.' All this, Minister, wouldn't happen if you heard us. If you've heard our proposals and done telework. But you didn't want the teleworking, the solution was uniquely the vaccine. Of course, we should all be vaccinated by a third dose and whatever it takes, but teleworking, hospitals, medicines, public transport? Where's all this? We therefore have a much higher rate of death compared with countries with a similar rate of vaccination. Why did you press on a very important weapon, but it is not the only one, and why all the other countries that are doing much better than us are doing combined measures. That's the problem. Why do you incorporate this directive with one year's delay, Minister? Where's the last state? Why are you incomplete? What interests have they dictated? Second, aren't you ashamed of the party dress for the Ruffalo? The Rafas received yesterday by the New Democracy voted for them, SYRIZA voted for them, voted for KINAL, the Greek Solution voted for them. Do you think you can do with the National Defense and the parties armoured? If anything has your signature and stamp, it is the 350,000,000 euro debt that your party owes to the banks. Our party doesn't owe a single cent. What he did, Minister, Mr Mitsotakis is a heavy political and institutional blow. Tsipras never thought of it, he never dared Samaras and to his honor, Papandreou, Karamanlis, the Simitis. It is shameful that you do, that the verdict of the Greek people will come and you will return to the opposition. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, too. Thank you. We will continue with SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and go to Mr. Theophilos Xantopoulos. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are talking today about modernising competition law and incorporating the European directive and I have been following the positions of the gentlemen and gentlemen, the majority, and I understand an awe with which they approach the idea of competition. It's the sacred Grail, the Grail of evolution along with them. It is the lyrics of social progress, and it is also a cause of individual degradation. But, ladies and gentlemen, competition without a common starting point, without the equivalence of the participants, without the common opportunities provided by the social framework, is essentially a legalisation of inequalities. This thing completely escapes you, and I am obliged to say it'strengthen the voice' to the National Representation that competition alone does not solve any problem in societies, instead it increases them. Mr Minister, I would like to take into account specific elements which have just been announced and which are worrying about the situation of Greek society, not just of the economy. Over 50% of the eight million active economic citizens in the ninth month of 2021 did not pay tax. Four million and thirty-eight thousand nine hundred fifty-three citizens owe the Greek State. The total undisclosed debt reaches 110,171,000,000 euros. Of these, definitively lost, is almost EUR 25,000,000 and the debt existing in the Greek State is EUR 85,000,000 and something. This is in terms of public debt, apart from private debt. At the same time, in these circumstances, the increase in the general consumer price index is now at 5.1% of 2021 prices. Yesterday's estimates from the European Union are that natural gas will remain at high prices in the next two years and electricity will be also. You realize that all of this is a nightmare for society and the citizens and you show that you do not take them seriously in mind or try to make a communication management in his logic by seeing and doing. We therefore incorporate the Community Competition Directive over a year, after you have previously made sure that you abolished the independence of the Competition Authority, and that you have effectively violated it in a way that is open and dishonest and in a way that has caused the reaction and comment of the European Union, by abolishing the principle and by removing from its leadership the previous administration headed by Ms Thanos. I am saying all this because, in the area of competition management, you are actually monitoring non-residents and I am saying this, precisely because your tactics have been expressed by your most official lips and yours, Minister, and of course the Prime Minister, when you say that we are not taking steps to calm down markets and to restore the balance between supply and demand, something which is not going to happen because it has never been done. After all, when prices are balanced at some point, we know very well that they will be balanced at the top and therefore, accuracy will be consolidated in society. I would like to refer to two amendments, for which I am responsible, as Head of Division of Justice. First of all, I would like to refer to 1193, where Article 5, which speaks of the transfer of permanent officials to courts, public prosecutors and general committees of the country, which is general, but which you will incorporate between other provisions, with a crypt and which Mr Zachariadis has previously developed, where you are effectively deprived of two days of regular leave from the parents of children who are ill-healthy, so that we cannot vote for the provision that is correct, because it is precisely the blocked and unified amendment. You also do something like that at 1190, from the opposite side, because in Article 1, in the publication of the brand name of companies which violate measures to curb the pandemic, we note the following contradictions: it is, in the first place, inappropriate because you impose an additional sanction on the name of the company when this company is closed. If a sanction of suspension of operation has been put in place, it may not jeopardise the operation of the operation. So what is the point in making the name of the closed operation public, since no one is coming? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, the penalty you are talking about is not sufficiently specified. Will the company only be made public without provision being taken, for example, that it can have more branches or that there is a franchise, that is, a franchise, which means that there is a pile of branches? What's it gonna close? There are other shortcomings in your amendment. You are not limiting the maximum period of application of the disclosure. Only indirectly can it be concluded that it will reach the six-month limit, so the operation will be suspended. But it is not very clear what is happening. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It would be reasonable for this serious sanction for the company's name to be linked to a greater breach, since, regardless of the duration of its own suspension, disclosure in itself causes an inflexible and common attack on the reputation and prestige of the company in the eyes of the citizen. Finally, there is a problem with the parameter of the procedural rights of undertakings because any action does not create a right of suspension. Think, then, after a final decision has been reached on the company, where the measure of suspension of operation is wrongly imposed, that it should be accompanied by the record of publishing its data on a misconduct, which is not legally applicable. These are the flaws, these are the sloppy ones, these are the sloppy ones with which you legislate and bring legislative initiatives, and once again we will tell you that you have been far too far away from the principles of good legislature. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u355	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering the draft law on the modernisation of competition law for the digital age, by amending the current Law on the protection of free competition and the incorporation of the European Union Directive 2019/1, which concerns the provision of competences to the competition authorities of the Member States, in order to make more effective the rules for ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. The Competition Committee is a competent authority to respect Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the provisions of Greek competition law. The strategic objective of the Competition Committee is therefore to maintain and restore the healthy competitive structure of the market. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you have seen this ad by the Committee on Competition, which is still being promoted today, and recommends the official to notice that there is a fine and criminal prosecution for those following cartels' practices and raising prices. Does that remind you of anything? Mr. Patoulis enters the office of the Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, and he does it at the bottom, according to the Minister's statement, so as not to lower the test prices. Mr. Patoulis comes in, and Mr. Heapactyl's coming in. The Minister of Development takes the Mayor of Naples-Sykeon, Mr. Simo Danilides, and tells him "more high test prices, because you spoil the street". Meanwhile, the Minister of Development is throwing a fight with all Cyprus that has the PCR at 15 euros at Larnaca airport. Ladies and gentlemen, have you seen any place like this cartel? The Competition Committee for Mr Georgiadis made it public? What does this independent authority expect, therefore, to intervene? Mr Lianeos, the President of the Competition Committee, what exactly is he doing? A properly functioning Competition Committee must identify and document practices by firms that restrict or distort competition and ensure that barriers to entry are removed, making free and open to all undertakings. The Competition Committee is the instrument of protecting the interests of the consumer and combating practices which restrict or distort competition. But the reality is quite different. I will only agree that this is what we all want, because the self-regulation of the market and the outdated economic model of the neo-liberal laissez-faire, laissez-passer will inevitably lead to overall market deregulation, with what this means for social cohesion, the medium and vulnerable social strata and, ultimately, the economy of the country. However, it is demonstrated that while the draft law is titled as the incorporation of the Directive of the European Union 2019/1, adopted at Union level, in order to further shield the independence of the Competition Committees of the Member States, neither the letter nor the spirit of the European text is actually observed. On the contrary, it makes the Competition Committee more vulnerable and more dependent on the governments concerned. The government's initiative to incorporate this directive takes place with one year's delay, and we even see a bad incorporation. In particular, Article 9 of the draft law has omitted the provision in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 4 of the Directive, which are the most crucial provision, in order to ensure the independence of national competition authorities, because, as expressly described, the way in which the objective of independence is ensured is to ensure that the conditions for cessation and appointment are set out in advance in national legislation. However, this critical provision has been completely removed from the relevant provision of Article 9 of the draft law, because only in this way is the illegality of provision No.4623/2019 being subsequently covered, according to which the President and Vice-President of the Competition Committee were suddenly and prematurely dismissed, in August 2019, I would point out that the legalisation of the provision, which the Government had invented in August 2019, was attempted, and which is quite contrary to the letter and the spirit of the European directive. It is not an impression that the competition committee, the Vice-President and the members of the Competition Committee will not be allowed after the end of their term of office to provide services to an undertaking which they had handled since their position in the Competition Committee, and that they are generally not allowed to take on the defence of cases before the Committee. Instead, the bill submitted to Parliament only states that the members of the committee have this limitation and there is no clear definition that the chairman and the vice president have the same obligation. That is to say, an interpretative vacuum that we do not know today how it will be used in the future. This is the case, while the Court of Justice of the European Union, through its established case-law, has ruled on the obligation to respect the completion of a term of office of the independent authorities by the Member States. And the undermining of the independence of the Competition Committee continues. Article 4 has been removed from the draft law, the abuse of power in a structurally relevant ecosystem for competition, adding Article 2a to Article 3959/2011. This article enabled the Competition Committee to intervene in markets that are currently being supervised by other independent authorities, such as telecommunications, for example, by the ETUC or gambling, that is, by the Toys Supervisory and Control Committee, and the Competition Committee could intervene with the logic of the ecosystem. In other words, when a telecommunications company or a gambling company is expanding to another market, such as electronic payments or food distribution, the Competition Committee would be able to carry out audits. However, this provision of the bill caused reactions on the part of the bodies, the Association of Greek Industrialists and the RES, representing the technology companies and withdrawn - we read - by intervention of the Great Maximos. However, it was not exactly the same thing as the Regulatory Authority, from which the competition powers on the railways were removed, even in the mid-term, despite the fact that only eight months ago there was a response from all the Ministries to the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission that this authority had competence and on this basis the Regulatory Authority became a member of the European Network of Competition Authorities. What's going on here? What do we see? Two yards and two weights. Why, Minister, is that so? And I'm going on with other sub-texts. With regard to the new infringement, which is intended to restrict effective competition and not to be normal commercial practice, it leaves out practices which restrict competition, but may be common. At the same time, for the implementation of the new Article 1a of Law No 3959, taking into account the specificities of the Greek market, and in particular the structure of small and medium-sized enterprises, firstly, with regard to the procedure for selecting the President and Vice-President, rapporteurs and other members in relation to the incompatibility, they do not include the nominated member of the committee, the previous occupation of the Government or of Parliament or his relationship with a Member of the European Parliament or the European Parliament. It is also a photographic provision in order not to reap the appointment of specific persons in the committee to prohibit the appointment as a member of the Competition Committee, which has been suspended by another independent authority. The prohibition shall apply for 10 years, whereas the reappointment ban as a member of the Competition Committee, which has been suspended by the Committee, is valid for two years. The Competition Committee has been faced with staff problems since over the last two years 10% of its staff have been seconded to other departments, and this legislation also allows for responsibility positions not only from experienced and trained authorities, but also from individuals. In other words, the government's attempt to recruit public sector officials from the private sector is continuing this time on the pretext that they are looking for skills that do not exist anywhere in the public sector. Withdraw ASEAN in a few words and desperately trying to restore to practice an anachronistic and anarchist system of customer recruitment. Therefore, we have seen a number of government initiatives towards deregulation of the market control framework through concrete steps to undermine the work of the Competition Committee. It is also worth noting that the bill was posted for public electronic consultation in the middle of the summer on August 6 - I recall - and even when the whole country was burning, for two reasons: and because of the holidays and because of the fires that then burned the whole country. Do we want this independence, Minister? No, of course not. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, too. I think she's the only one mentioned in the bill. So I said that Mr Georgiadis wants to give ground to the Members of Parliament, which is why we are going to give him the floor now. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adonis Georgiadis is called on in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I say anything else, I start with what Mrs. Jackie mentioned. I don't give it to her personal empathy against me, she's known. I imagine she's just not well-informed. So I'll let you know, Mrs. Jackrey, about the following. Simos Danilides said that he was the one who told him that he had said something about Patolis and entered my office and that was the following letter to the newspaper DIMMOCRATIA, which was published in the newspaper DIMMOCRATIA. “Dear Mr. Petrolakis, first of all thank you for hospitality and so on. The information I had from the Minister of Agriculture was about the Athens Medical Association, the Panhellenic Association of Clino-laboratory Specialities and their responses to complaints about the height of the cap at PCR prices. In the debate with him." - Mrs. Jackres-- "There was no mention of Mr. Patulis's name, nor of my interview, I made any reference to faces. I have referred exclusively to the position of the above institutions and the reactions that are seen in the light of publicity. The name of Mr. Patoulis in the interview, published, is rather inadvertent because of his capacity as president of the Medical Association.” etc. So all the incident that Mrs. Jackres described and on which she has developed an argument about the PCR, its price, and what I have done and what I have not done, is all a fantastic event, it has never happened at all. Now because the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA", all right, everyone can understand. Secondly, Mrs Jackson, I am always amazed at you from SYRIZA and PASOK obviously when after so many years in politics and enough in governance you have not understood anything. He searched for the Committee on Competition because he did not deal with the level of the threshold set by the Minister for Development in 47, and it should be much smaller during Mrs Jackson, and what the Committee on Competition did on this matter. Guys, listen up. The Competition Committee is for competition. Competition is against the platoon. The Competition Committee has also made papers that the wall is only allowed to enter for a short time because of the pandemic and only under the specific conditions of the pandemic, because it is prohibited under market and competition laws. So, not only does it not have the power to check whether the plaque is correct, it does not agree to the existence of the plaque. If you've made Minister of Industry, like Mrs. Jackrey, and you haven't understood these basic things about competition, it's a miracle that the country still exists after you have passed. Wonderful! I'm astonished with all her speech. That's a serious bubble. We shall now proceed to a number of points of order in my speech. I am making the legislative improvements, please, very much, to share with colleagues. They're not too important, they're very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u359	Secondly, I am announcing my amendments to the Minutes. Firstly, the amendment by my fellow Member Dramas Konstantinos Bluchos to the general number 1199 and a special number 114 on the subject: "Specific conditions for building up the new Municipal Council in Drama". This amendment is accepted. The amendment by the Ministry of Finance by a general number 1190 and a specific number 105. In this amendment to Article 1 - for the others we have mentioned during a debate - is there my amendment, the Ministry of Development - I say so that you know it, ladies and gentlemen - with which we are doing what we are doing? We are giving our service the right, because of the urgent need to protect public health and against the dispersal of the coronary, to allow the publication of the trade name of undertakings which violate measures against the dispersion of the Coronary COVID-19. It applies as long as these measures are held and since the fine, i.e. the penalty, is the suspension of operation of the operation. In other words, the agency has the right, when it comes to putting the penalty for a company's suspension of operation, to publish the company's trade name, so that the public knows what business we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u360	Where will this be published?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u361	It will be published in the press release by the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumers. Because this has happened and I have no reason to hide it from you. We close, we never say the trade name, and the next one they go by themselves and open. And it happens again, fortified that we can't say their name. Well, that can't go on. Well, we accept the amendment of the Ministry of Interior by a general number 1193 and a special number 108. We are also accepting the amendment by the Ministry of Labour of a general number 1194 and a special number 109. Also, the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection to the general number 1189 and to the number 104. Mr Stylianides mentioned it yesterday in the debate in writing. Also, the amendment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, mentioned earlier by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, by a general number 1192 and a specific number 107. So all these amendments that I have read are accepted and come into the body of the bill. Well, now let's go explain it a little bit, as I've written it, so I don't forget anything you've told me, because you know that I always want to answer. Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou from the Step of the Greek Parliament. Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou was President of the Greek Parliament with the agreement of SYRIZA, and yesterday, Mr. Kouvaras at 'ACTION 24' made the clearest and clearest position regarding the haunting of the construction that was set up, unfortunately, by Mr. Alexis Tsipras's previous government in the case of 'NOVARTIS'. I never had very good relations with Mrs Constantopoulos. I want to be honest about this. However, its location is worth listening to by the Greek people, because when you hear it explain it, you know immediately how established this whole story was. I thank her for that. Secondly, I want to say some things about the Ruffalo now that you have said and all these stories. What did SYRIZA Members say? They spilled crocodile tears, because - says - Mitsotakis and New Democracy were robbed of the Rafalis market - even after - because the social media of the New Democracy brought up the Rafalis with the logo of the New Democracy. First and foremost, the Raphalls obviously belong to the entire Greek people. There is no doubt about that. Apparently the Rafas were purchased for the Hellenic Air Force and the Hellenic Air Force and the Greek Armed Forces belong to all Greek people and protect the entire Greek people. Obviously, we have not all enjoyed the same for the Rafalis market, as every political decision makes sense not to express all people in the same way. Let me take one example: who was the representative of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the reception of the Rafahs? Who was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u362	After you've made it a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u363	Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u364	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u365	All other parties sent a representative. The Greek people celebrated and felt an uplift.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u366	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u367	And a party was missing from receiving the Rafahs, SYRIZA. You're not happy you took them. Don't you now leave the wish that you got the logo? After you cry and shut up for many and various reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u368	After we voted for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u369	Please. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u370	But he's causing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u371	He didn't interrupt you. You dragged him so much, he didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u372	So now let's go see his argument, Mr. Zachariadis. Mr. Zachariadis, this logo "Greek Government", which played on spot televisions when you share the Greek people's money from the taxes of the Greek people, remember that? There isn't. It is not an official logo of the Hellenic Republic. It was an invention of the Government of Mr.Alexis Tsipras every time he shared from the money of the Greek people, such as the money of the Greek people purchased the Rafahs, and was robbing, according to your logic, all that money. I give it to you for the Minutes, then, the logo "Greek Government" and if you find it anywhere in the official logos of the Greek state, write to me. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But don't go far. Let's see when kids are advertised in the election posters in the social dividend. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Haritsi, because he heard about the Raphalis - Mr. Zachariadis is new here - the social dividend that tells your poster that you shared in December 2016 629 million, in December 2017 750 million, in December 2018, 780 million, in your pocket, you shared the money? Was that Alexis Tsipras' money? Because his "subjects" I looked at some hair has. So, you're not telling me? Did the Greek people's money, Mr. Zachariadis? Didn't you mind with the SYRIZA logo? If possible. Didn't you notice?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u373	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u374	But aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u375	Please. You told him so much and he didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u376	Did you mind the logo supposed to be in the Rafahs? You should have a SYRIZA spot with your own logo, if the Rafas didn't like you. Why didn't you? Did anyone stop you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u377	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Giannoulis, Mr. Haritsis will answer later. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u379	The Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u380	Leave me first-grade arguments now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u381	Put SIEMENS on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Giannoulis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u383	But it's a disgrace to what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u384	If you were happy about the Ruffalo, you'd have had a spot of yours with a hundred SYRIZA logos. You didn't do because you were sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u385	Put SIEMENS on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Giannoulis, please. Let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u387	And why are you sad? Because the Greek people felt aroused and proud, and that upsets you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u388	Put SIEMENS on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Giannoulis, should I go? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u390	But it's a disgrace to what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u391	But he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u392	I will put "NOVARTIS" to remember Zoi Konstantopoulou who explained to the Greek people that you tried to shut us in prison to win the elections, unless it is Zoi Konstantopoulou right. Say that and that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u393	With the best and Lafasan to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u394	So let's go. I really heard and I am surprised at the shallowness of your arguments. As much as reality disguises you, you stick to your perception of reality. But with pandemic especially there is something that is very interesting. Everything's measurable and I'll answer everything. Just two weeks ago, when the government decided to open the schools, what was prevalent in the public debate and the great fuss you made was 'why the schools open up'. And after we got to the point from morning to night to listen to SYRIZA and his canals say 'why the schools are opening', you ended up saying 'up to a week's extension so there won't be an explosion of cases'. Your argument was that if the schools were opened, the opening of schools would cause an explosion in the pandemic cases. Wasn't that your argument? Is that why you didn't want the schools not to open?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u395	Janakis is SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u396	Please, Mr. Giannoulis. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u397	But he's been talking all day.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u398	Mr. Giannoulis, I heard you, and I didn't get a cich.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u399	He's right, Mr. Giannoulis. Each proposal also had "Georgiadis" in it and said nothing. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u400	I didn't get it. How do you manage to talk underneath?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u401	But you've been talking all day.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u402	That's how he wants to answer. Mr. Haritsis will answer, the parliamentarian later. Why are you interrupting the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u403	If I tell you something you don't like, you have a parliamentary representative. If I say something on personal grounds, you ask for the floor on staff. The idea that you can speak underneath is not tolerated in the House. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u404	You're misusing the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Giannoulis, this is how you insult Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u406	If there's a misuse of the right, I'll be chased by the Bureau, not by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u407	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u408	Everything in the House is in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u409	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u410	You just don't like class, you like chaos. So let's go here in school. The day the government decided to open the schools the daily cases were twenty - three hundred thirty - four. On the day we're talking, after two weeks of school operation, and while you said that if the schools open, there will be an outbreak of incidents, that is, twenty-nine thousand arrive, according to your prediction, twenty-nine thousand plus something. How many cases today? Eighteen thousand eighty-sixty-nine. I mean, it's 11,000. Excuse me. Don't you feel the need to explain why your prediction has fallen so openly out? That's what you told the Greek people from morning to night. You're driving us crazy. Let's go now. Mr Famellos came here with a veil - I said to take the floor, but it doesn't matter - and he told us that 'we have failed' - he said - 'We are especially the worst in terms of employment'. I'm really surprised with you guys. Let's go now and see the unemployment index in Greece and its evolution over the last six years. The highest point of unemployment in Greece in the decades is from March 2015 to 26.2%. In July 2019 you handed us unemployment of 17.3%. In November 2021, two and a half years later, in the middle of a pandemic with all the damage that pandemic has done to the economy, unemployment is 13.3%. We are, in other words, four units under the unemployment you have given us and, indeed, in the middle of a pandemic. And while we have done this, we have fully failed employment. Where do you really get that? Now let's go to energy, Mr. Felix's other argument. I would like to explain it because it has some great interest in whether we can once get to grips with it. He says Mr Famelos and some other speakers from SYRIZA said: "There was no increase..." - he says - "...in the current on SYRIZA". I haven't checked whether or not there was. There may have been, maybe it didn't exist. I don't know. But let us take it as a argument that there has not been, and now we have an increase in electricity. Let's take that for granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u411	14% reduction in half-weighted.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u412	But are the circumstances the same? Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because this is where they were a little lucky. In 2014 the average price of the barrel in oil was 96 dollars. In 2015, she fell to 40. In the five years of SYRIZA we have had the lowest international energy price we have had in the last decade for various world reasons. They enjoyed the best period of energy price over the last fifteen years. And what do they say now? Listen to what they say while they've ruled. They say: "Yes, PPC had been financially destroyed" - said Mr. Zachariadis, did it with a lyric and he - "but PPC's social policy..." - didn't you say so, Mr. Zachariadis? - "... do we not do social policy with PPC?" Aren't we going to make a social policy?"
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u413	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u414	I may be wrong to hear from one of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u415	He asked where social policy went. That's what he asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u416	Very good. So let us make a few things clear, so that the Greek people can hear, if we ever manage and agree to humanity: PPC is a listed company, which works entirely with the private market rules, which the public has as a large shareholder, but also many private shareholders, and which is supervised by the European Competition Committee, such as all the other companies that act in the free economy. Can the government - and will it - exercise social policy from PPC's tariffs? Reply: No, it cannot, nor must it, and if it does, it is illegal and that would be illegal state aid to other electricity companies in Greece, if you have not understood it. PPC's social invoice is paid by the State budget and is paid to other private providers who pay and sell electricity on the same terms, because the State is not allowed to use the fact that PPC is public for much of it to affect the price that PPC sells electricity. Because if this state does, it affects the energy market in Greece, and then Greece will have a very large fine for PPC. If what I am telling you now, Mr Zachariadis, you do not even understand what is a European Union, what is an internal market, what is a European Competition Commission, you do not understand it at all, Mr Zachariadis. What you said you must do through PPC is forbidden to do so by European authorities and European laws. What can the state do? It can increase the budget line that wants to be paid for a social policy in energy and give all private providers and PPC the corresponding amount to those who sell electricity and meet these criteria. However, this is not about the price of PPC's share on the Stock Exchange or whether PPC belongs more or less to the public. You don't understand it and we're talking about a bill today that's about competition law. And you say things like that, and I hear you say it on the channels too, and I love that, yes, PPC's share had fallen - the new argument that you left it 100 million euros worth - but we did social policy. To take it too, and someone in Brussels, to fine us if you really did, which, of course, you could not do. Since your shoe cannot be tied, not social policy from PPC! So, basically, the whole argument you have said is all illegal, except for mistakes. You may understand that if you read this draft law well. Now, you will allow me to say something that has been very concerned with me. My friend - a friend I have in the Chamber, not to say his name, you know who he is, a tall one of you - posted on Facebook a message to me a few days ago - I'll put it in the Minutes - 'Adoni, you have a message', he told me. He's put on a PPC account to show that I've fallen out and that the electricity has increased too much. I've got a lot of brains working to figure out what's happened. Unfortunately - I hope not wickedly - consumption does not appear. I'll testify to it in the Minutes for Sfakian to see the tall one. Knowing that Sfakia loves them, I mean, as I love Crete, Sfakian I tell him to show him it's from a levental place, because the place is really amazing, to be honest, no matter what it is. I will submit it to the Minutes and I will now challenge him to put on Facebook or to bring to Parliament last year's and this year's account, so that we can also see the consumption. I'm leaving it. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because I'm telling you that with the same consumption this Facebook account doesn't come out. And why am I saying it? Not to say about him, but to explain to the House and, above all, to the Members of the New Democracy how great a spiral is going on on this issue. Is there an increase in energy? Apparently, there is. What kind of lunatic would say backwards? Would there be a way not to exist on the Planet Earth? No, on the planet we live in, there will be an increase in energy, because there is a huge increase in energy worldwide. I now hear the political argument: 'Yes, but Spain has taken measures', two or three of SYRIZA said, 'the very good measures of Spain'. Yes, sir. I do not have an absolute picture of all the measures taken by the Spanish Government and it is none of my business. I can only see the result of the measures taken by the Spanish Government and the result of the measures taken by the Greek Government, because fortunately in the European Union there is a service called EUROSTAT, it counts with the same engravings all the states, it produces data which does not question any state and on this basis governments can understand whether they are going well or if they are going badly. For the whole year 2021 - for the whole! - Spain has inflation of 3.09%, above the European average. Greece - and I consider this to be a success of the country, the Greek economy and the Ministry of Development responsible for the market - has 1.2%. Despite the troubles heard here, Greece, according to EUROSTAT and its current communication, has the second lowest inflation on an annual basis in 2021 throughout Europe. Second lowest! The only lower of us is Malta. So, to have the second lowest inflation on an annual basis, far below the European average, we have done something well for all of us, not just me, all of us. Well, well we've gone, much better than everyone else and certainly much better than friend Spain. However, one might argue that it is not right to take the annual basis, Mr Haritsis - for what reason? - because we had in the first seven months deflation - perhaps also because of a circumstance, pandemic - many may be the reasons - and so one can say that if you put it on an annual basis, Adonai, you actually make a smuggling, because you put in and the months that you were very negative. That's why I chose to compare it to Spain, which you so much like, and you told me and you told me again - I'm tired of hearing it this morning - to our worst month. What was the worst month for inflation in Greece? December! How much inflation did Greece, according to EUROSTAT, have in December 2021? He had 4.4%, the worst inflation. Again, I will explain it here: in December, which is our worst month, we are eight from the end. The worst month we're eight since the end. Isn't that right? It's much under the waist, much better than many others, but it's our worst month. How many, you guys, Spain in December? Have you seen it? It's 6.6%! I'm sorry, guys, seriously, do you want to copy Spain? So, that's your suggestion? Copy Spain and inflation 16%! Copy Mr. Varoufakis to put ATA back on, the Automatic Timing, if you remember, we had it in the 1980s, took us to a 40% inflation somewhere Andreas took it, because we went to be the way Venezuela is today. I'm closing the parentheses. If we don't understand what we're saying, it doesn't matter. I have heard many arguments - and ironically a little - about the economy that goes'servin' and something like that from a humorous phrase in a television interview. I seldom go to the TVs, so it makes sense, if I say something, to find it. Now you understand how funny it is to tell me what I'm going to say on TV. Nor do I remember what I've said, I've been out on thousands of shows at least in the past twenty-five days. So it doesn't matter to tell me that. It is important, however, to talk about the substance. I am sorry, gentlemen, in 2021, apparently, we will have one of the highest growth rates throughout Europe. We don't know exactly the number, it hasn't come out yet. It's between - we say - 7.1%, now I don't know if it's gonna be much more than 8%. We're one of the best. Mr. Tsipras had gone, Mr. Haritsis, and he had told this great lie at the IGC that we were, he said, out of the end. Except from the end, and we'll be on the first four! I'm sorry, guys, just a minute. The fact that we'll be in the first quadrant did you consider it self-evident? Was it automatic? Was it necessary? Because all the years you've ruled were all the years of the bottom, last! How is it that when you govern to be last in development, and now you say 'Come on, but we are in the first triad and what happened'? It's a little what he says, what the fox doesn't get makes them hangers! Let me tell you a pleasant news, I'm not saying that I read it with great pleasure, Yannis and Apostolis: DCS DELPHIC STROTEGIES, one of the international houses that make financial forecasts, was the first house that in June 2021, while then everyone predicted that in 2021 Greece's growth would be about 4% to 4.5% - we had more conservative forecasts then around 3.6% - the water was disturbed, then a announcement was made and said that "2021 is wrong, Greece will have an 8% growth". I remember because I had it up on my Twitter back then. I was also surprised because our forecasts were much lower. Today the same house made its assessment for 2022 and came out that we will have 8% again. I'm leaving it to see at the end of the year whether or not it's going to fall in or not, as it fell in 2021. It's not mandatory because it fell in 2021 to fall in and in 2022. But to fall in 2021, when everyone else fell out, there's something that counts. I want to see if you're going to say "visin," again, I'm very curious, since you like sound so much. But the truth is that the economy of Greece in 2021 has gone extremely well. He has exceeded all the predictions of all international houses many times. All the evaluation houses and the Commission have been forced to revise the forecasts for the Greek economy several times in 2021 and my personal ambition as Minister for Development and Investment of the Hellenic Republic is to do the same in 2022 and we are working very hard on this. I also have a few things that I need to be clear about PCR, an issue that I left so much behind and I am tired of hearing. I present for the Practicals the public announcement of the Panhellenic Federation of Clinic Laboratories, the Panhellenic Federation of Private Primary Health Associations, the Panhellenic Association of Medical Diagnostic Centres, the Panhellenic Association of Private Medical Companies and Multimedical Medicines, the Association of Doctors of EEA. They're all PCR-examinations in Greece. Everyone in their joint declaration - and it is very rare for everyone to make a statement together - says that the EUR 47 plaque is a little and that it endangers some of their members. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would very much like to hear the parties finally place themselves on the substance of whether these people, who are doctors and whom we are going to do tests and see whether we have COVID or not or any other tests we do why they do all kinds of tests we do every day, are false or not. Because, if we have to get the plaque to 25 euros, which Mr Paulakis said, it goes on to say that all these people who have made a public announcement and who say that at 47 euros there are already many of their members, are regular crooks. I'd like SYRIZA to tell us if he thinks these doctors are cheating. If he doesn't think they're crooked, can we finally have the conversation seriously? So I'm going to say it again very calmly if you can tell some people that you don't understand. Watch out, it's not price. It's a platoon. We did not say that everyone would be required to sell at EUR 47. We said they can't sell over 47 euros. I would like to make it clear because all the debate you are having is as if you did not understand the difference between the two conditions. Since the plaque is the highest retail selling price, when compared to any type of offer or tender must by definition be higher. I can't explain it more simply. Every time you tell me that he took it cheaper and the pussy took it cheaper. What about the "deader" plaque? The plaque is what doesn't allow it to go any more, not go cheaper. I don't know if I can just say it. I don't know how I can explain it another way. However, because I don't want to be an all-conscious and I don't like to play it, SYRIZA has, because PASOK had made a proposal and had told me to put the cap on 40 euros, to present me with an in-depth proposal saying that the cap should not be at 47 euros, but should it be 42, 38, 37, 30, 10, 0 or whatever you want? I repeat, the debate cannot be 'we want to prescribe'. Prescribing has nothing to do with the plaque. Prescribing is another thing. It's if EOPY's gonna pay it back with the exams he's giving his insurers through a free EOPY service, and that's the EOPY's decision. It is not a market decision or a decision of the Ministry of Development. If you have such a proposal and I say it above all for Mr Giannoulis who is constantly referring to this issue, that is, if Mr Giannoulis says so, if SYRIZA can't: "It is a fraud of 47 euros, the right price is 37 euros" and he can explain why. If you want me to invite you to a zoom with the clinicians and tell them why, based on your data, it has to be lower, I'd be happy to do so. I don't want to claim any infallibility on the plaque. The number of 47 euros came in after a lot of trouble. Could we have been wrong? Maybe, but I haven't heard from any other suggestions until today. I can only hear them blaming me unstoppably because I have put a comedian plaque, but when I say: 'Tell me what a plaque is not a comedy', they are not answering. So there can be no dialogue. So I close by mentioning one last point. I am sorry that Mr Katrugalos is not here, although he has very much lowered his level and it was a little sad. Mr. Paulakis this morning - and I forgot to mention it - accused me, and I think two or three other speakers of SYRIZA, but I am not sure, I may be mistaken, Mr. Haritsis, in this regard, that I have deliberately concealed an article on the interruption of the President's term of office because I would like to retrospectively legitimise the change of Thanos with Mr. Lianos, in the decision I made, as you may recall in September 2019. Again it refers to a known conspiracy that some are hidden from behind, that we hide something, etc. So I want to make this clear so we don't ruin our hearts for free. I do not need to legitimize by this law any decision of my own on Mrs Thanos. I made a decision. Mrs Thanos had every legitimate right as a Greek citizen and appealed to the Council of State, both in terms of insurance and in the main proceedings. He lost the insurance measures, lost the main trial, and the Council of State definitively decided that my decision was legal. Therefore, according to the Greek Constitution and the Greek Law, I did not have to legitimise something that has been decided in the supreme administrative court of the country that it is legal. You can't come to the House and say such things. Thu, Lord, put my mouth in jail. I mean, really, you're coming and you're telling me that I want to legitimize something that was judged legal in the S.H.I.E.L.D. What argument is that? So what do you really want me to answer that? Don't you want to have a nice ideological conversation? To say, too, and to close with it, because I'd forget about it. Mr Xanthopoulou, who spoke earlier and is not here and who is decent, said that we have competition as Gray in our philosophy. He said it was our Holy Grail. Are we going to have the same ideological debate we had the other day? Obviously, for us who believe in capitalism, competition is our Holy Grail. Without competition, capitalism does not work. And the reason why we want there to be a strong Committee on Competition and the reason why we are happy to incorporate the directive and why we are never interfering with what decisions it makes is not just because we are good people, which we are, is why for our own ideology competition is the Holy Grail of this system. Without competition, there is no capitalism. And we want capitalism to work because we like it. How many times do I have to tell you now? That's what I expect to hear from you to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u417	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, thirty-four minutes he spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u419	In fact, thirty-four minutes and in the morning he complained about my Chief, but we'll improve that. We'll keep track of times slowly. It was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and there will be a debate, because Mr Georgiadis complained this morning about my Chief. Mr. Karathanasopou and Mr. Haritsi, your names have been announced and you have priority. However, Mr Besyropoulos wants to support Article 4 of the amendment by a general number 1194 and a specific number 109. Let's give him the floor if you don't mind. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. I'm only gonna need two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to refer to Article 4 of the Amendment, number 1194 and number 109, which deals with procedural matters relating to the administrative fine of EUR 100. The concept of political and social responsibility is not self-evident for everyone. From there on we have to see reality. To understand that protection of public health is a matter of all of us. This article amends Article 24 of Law 4865/2021 on the mandatory vaccination of natural persons over 60 years of age. Wanting to enable all those who have not been vaccinated to consider the size of social responsibility, especially for the month of January, the administrative fine is fixed at EUR 50. The relevant penalties shall be removed from the first day of the following month following the completion of the first instalment. Not only is there no discount on the citizen's right to appeal to justice but, on the contrary, this right is facilitated. To date, for fines imposed by independent authorities, recourse could only be made to the Supreme Court, the Council of State. With this amendment, the citizen has the right to submit a request to withdraw the act to the administration if he disputes the act imposing the fine and to refer the matter to the administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of the pandemic requires an increased sense of political and social responsibility. The issue of vaccination, the necessity of which we all understand, cannot be a field of micro-party confrontation. Every day more and more citizens are convinced, than those who have so far refused to do the vaccine. Every man who makes the vaccine is a small victory for our society. It is another step on the road to social responsibility and the protection of the health of our fellow people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr. Besiropoulos. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos is called in Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u422	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have followed - now we are reaching the end of the debate - and in today's bill a meaningless, hypocritical and totally disorientative confrontation between the government and SYRIZA. For example, such controversy was the Rafah debate. Here we must recall that both New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement from the Greek Solution to the Dibymbic designations have been passed by the Rafalis market as a weapon to defend our country's defence and sovereign rights against Turkish aggression. That is what they were saying at the time and they are claiming today, of course. This is nothing but a plausible lie, for precisely the specific planes and the other weapon systems the government buys, the freshmen, for example, have a huge, very wide range that exceeds five hundred kilometres. From this point of view, therefore, it seems that these weapons are not about defending the country's borders but, on the contrary, they are part of the Euro-Atlantic imperialist planning, namely the planning of NATO, the United States and the European Union for Russia's military circuitry. With these very imperialist designs, the Greek ruling class is becoming increasingly interdependent in the context of its geostrategic upgrading, a geostrategic upgrading that exacerbates competition with the Turkish ruling class, competition for market shares and plundering the interests of the peoples, which will receive these two parties, competition for co-management in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. So these weapons systems do not offer any protection to our sovereign rights and to the borders of our country. On the contrary, what they confirm is that the wolf cannot keep the sheep, as our people say. In other words, the United States, NATO, the European Union is tested forces for changing borders in our region. Let us look at the single Yugoslavia and the rest over the last decades. So not only can the guarantors of the borders be but, on the contrary, they strengthen these sovereign rights, in their logic divides and reigns. Besides, a typical example of the last few days is for the EastMed pipeline and its course. Again when it was being discussed in the House in May 2021, we heard majestics from the Government of New Democracy, by SYRIZA, by the Change Movement, about who was the inspiration of EastMed. He was voted on by all these parties along with the Greek Solution, and again he was stressed by all sides that EastMed is shielding our country's rights towards Turkey, that Turkey is now cramped and cannot do anything different. Indeed, the New Democracy rapporteur had arrived to think that those who oppose the EastMed pipeline serve foreign interests by resorting to such a reproach against the JRC. What was confirmed? What the JRC, and only the JRC, had emphasised at the very first moment, in its opposite vote, which it gave Parliament at the time, is that precisely this pipeline is part of geostrategic competition in the wider region and not only does it not guarantee the interests of our country, but it is also a source of risk. And our opposition was not like that of Mera25, which is generally against mining. This has been confirmed by the recent attitude of the Americans to question the possibility of creating the pipeline and even at a time when the government is negotiating a long-term strategy, defensive, as it calls it, agreement with the United States where it grants land and water to the American imperialists by continuing at this level the policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Really, should we remember something, where did all these SYRIZA dictators, the Change Movement, the Mera25 for Biden and his spectacular work go? As the Messiah, he was projected to be reborn the visions and demands of social democracy. And some even on the Left put all their hopes on Biden. Today what do they really say about all this? This choice made by the Americans for EastMed who serves? Their interests, of course, of the Americans first and foremost, because they are prioritised to be able to promote liquefied natural gas. So there's no need for such a duct. And of course with this attitude it is confirmed that the bargaining with Turkey, so that it can be extracted from Russia's arms, serve Turkey's interests and plans in the wider region, and it also gets into the game of the Eastern Mediterranean and its sights. So what they show and confirm is that the protection of the rights of the peoples of the region and of our country's sovereign rights is going through the release from the imperialist designs, designs that turn our country into an advanced outpost and also into a field of retaliation from the other parties. Protection of the rights and life of the peoples of the region, borders and sovereign rights is only done through the collapse of imperialist planning in the region. The second example of this gloomy, meaningless and hypocritical controversy which is taking place - the ping pong what we have - relates to the specific legislative initiative brought by the government today for discussion in plenary. What is this legislative initiative? It is nothing but the amendment of the Competition Committee law incorporating Directive 2019/1. When was this directive passed, when did the European Commission decide? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Remember who was then in the government when this directive was decided? It was SYRIZA's government. And we observe this seemingly paradoxical, as a government, that SYRIZA accepts and supports this directive, but as opposition, to keep reservations as to whether it joined as it should have been in the Greek legal order. And one will say "But that's contradictory", but there's no contradiction, because SYRIZA is practicing in this globe reservation and in other bills on government policy to show that it's something different from me allegedly from the government, that they don't agree to strategic choices and their problem is how the Government of New Democracy manages the policy in question, manages it properly, or serves interests. Is that the problem, or is it that you agree? Because, Mr Georgiadis, you spoke to me a moment ago, the Holy Grail is not only for the New Democracy, but the Holy Grail is competition for both SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Because you consider it a divine gift to face the suffering of the economy and give impetus to capitalist economic development. But let us see what competition is about the capitalist economy. Firstly, competition in the capitalist economy is at the expense of the working class, because it is precisely based on increasing the level of exploitation of workers, any increase in the productivity of labour is done for the benefit of the capitalists and at the expense of the workers, whether this is as a result of the intensification of their work or as a result of the entry into the productive process of new technologies. That is why you have, together, put together such a framework in the labour market, where, in essence, you have put in place mechanisms for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force, a working force that is consumable, adapted to the needs of business groups to shield their competitiveness and, at the same time, without structured labour, insurance and trade union rights. And that is the task of all governments. The current government has stepped on the legislative framework left by the SYRIZA Government in terms of overturning the labour market. Secondly, competition is at the expense of small businesses, this family character, to the detriment of professionals, self-employed and traders, because they compete under worse conditions with large business groups. Because in the capitalist economy the rule that big fish always eats the little and where this is not the case is few exceptions that do not question the rule. That is why we are not only observing in our country but in the developed capitalist economies a huge concentration and concentration of the economy and almost all of the economy, how many control new technologies, how many control air transport, how many globally control energy, fossil fuels and a number of other issues are confirmed by this process. Thus, concentration and concentration are the main feature of the economic development of capitalism, with few groups controlling an increasing market share. Thirdly, competition is at the expense of bio-paler farmers, because they are forced to buy expensive raw materials - seeds, pesticides, machinery - and, at the same time, they are forced again the monopolies to sell their agricultural goods very cheaply so that they can ensure profitability, as a raw material, of the agricultural goods of businesses in the agri-food sector, a agri-food sector which, as well as in our country and worldwide, is controlled by few monopolies. And finally, competition is at the expense of satisfying people's needs, because the more a market is concentrated, the more monopolistic prices can be fixed. The functioning of the Competition Committee in our country, the European Union, the United States is nothing but ash in the eyes of the world and the existence of this committee cannot be reversed by the iron economic laws of the capitalist economy leading to the concentration and concentration of the market. Fourth issue, in relation to the accuracy directly linked to the issues that we are discussing. We are clearly saying that accuracy is not a case of the management deficiencies of the New Democracy Government or its ideas, but is a concrete result due to the transition from the capitalist crisis to capitalist development. In other words, accuracy is a child of the capitalist system and the big picture confirms a new rise in global inflation. It's not just our country's peculiarity. I will not mention any figures, other speakers have referred to them. This, of course, resulted as a result of the disturbance, due to the very strong opposition, but also to the competitions presented at global level for the control of raw materials, the control of intermediate goods, the transport routes in international trade that have precisely disrupted the global supply chains. Secondly, it is the result of the expansionist monetary policy implemented by the European Central Bank and, indeed, by the SYRIZA, considers it a flag of progressive change that we have at European Union and European Central Bank level. So the European Central Bank is cutting cheap money, precisely to support multinational investment projects, so that the process of green and digital transition can be exploited and accelerated. So this cheap money is precisely the reason that is fading and exploding inflation, which inflates popular incomes. So what is a medicine for the interests of business groups, cheap money, is a drug at the same time for the needs of the people. So, Minister, when you spoke before, you tell Greece that inflation is small, but unfortunately it is confirmed that even if the numbers prosper, the people are unhappy. Thirdly, the reason for accuracy and, in particular, energy is the European Union's policy of liberalising the electricity market and the green transition. This policy consistently serves both the current government and the previous governments, such as SYRIZA - ANEL, in order to enable renewable energy sources to be incorporated into the mix that led to a very expensive mix for the people and to support the predators of 'green energy'. The defoliation course had begun on SYRIZA as a government and today continues it, with gas as a transitional fuel during this period of ligniteification, that is an imported fossil fuel. In fact, because the accuracy is not something temporary in the electricity market - the European Commission is already talking for at least two to three years that we will monitor the very same phenomena - a huge dispute has started within the European Union, huge differences, between France on the one hand, which believes that the transition to green energy must be exploited and made not with a transitional fuel for natural gas, but nuclear energy, and Germany on the other because it has the privileged relationship with Russia and the South Stream 2. This dispute is also expressed at the highest level in the European Union, but this dispute about what the transition fuel will be is is not about the price of determination of electricity and enormous accuracy. So it seems very specifically that this policy, which all governments have consistently served in the field of energy, has led to this wave of precision in electricity. After all, the green transition will lead to even more precise energy, to even more expensive 'green goods', thus increasing energy poverty even further, but also exacerbating the standard of living of the people's family. The JRC is in favour of all forms, domestic forms of use and fossil fuels, i.e. lignite, and the production of electricity from water - which is renewable, but is not exploited - and also wind and photovoltaic. But in conditions of capitalism there cannot be sufficient production, cheap current and environmental protection. This can only be done by socialising the means of production. This is the JRC's proposal. So the measures to protect against the wave of accuracy are nothing but aspirins that cannot compensate for the enormous losses of popular incomes. After all, the proposals from the other parties are back in the context of aspirin, because they fall within the limits of the European Union's policy. In fact, some things we hear come out of reality. PPC, says, the public can set a cheap invoice. Do you really claim that, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Didn't you, with a proposal and a decision of the SYRIZA government and the majority, then, put the energy stock exchange? What determines the energy stock exchange? The wholesale price of electricity. The stock exchange determines the wholesale price and on this basis sells all companies buying electricity from the electricity market to consumers. And this wholesale price, by decision of the SYRIZA Government, is determined by the highest import price of the latter KWh. And you're coming now and you're saying that a public PPC would reduce the current? But these things don't happen when you've established the stock exchange. Nor, of course, is it proposed to resort to solutions tried and bankrupt in the past, as the Mera25 did, to the application of automatic indexation, which is a proposal for previous decades. After all, like proposals from previous decades, this party is tabling proposals for guilds and collaborative models, which are bankrupt by life itself. On the other hand, the protection of popular income is linked to specific objectives of struggle, such as those of the JRC in a more general course of overthrowing this situation. I conclude, Mr President, by referring to the amendment which shows that the government is not planning on the sidelines, but has a long-term perspective, such as the anti-laboratory measures contained in the Ministry of Labour's amendment. Does the government, on the one hand, have a cut of 50% in wages for those in the private sector who are the parents of children who are ill and, on the other hand, the issue is this: why is this development? Just because the government opened up schools without protection measures. The question is not whether schools would open up or when schools would open, that's not the point. Of course, the schools had to open up, but under what terms and conditions? To avoid the co-existence of children. Twenty-seven kids in a department? Is that possible? How can there not be a pandemic spreader? While they should have been smaller departments with much less children, with specific health and safety measures in schools, with free tests for all children and teachers. So you are making use of your political management, the criminal policy management of the pandemic, to go ahead with anti-terror measures, in substance, making it easier for business groups, such as teleworking for patients. I mean, he's sitting at his house, let's get a handful of firearms, but he's working, so he doesn't lose the rent. Who's being served? Of course, they do not serve their workers and their needs, but business groups. And much more when the government is responsible for managing the pandemic. It's an entire conversation, I'm not opening it now. Finally, in the case of lower wages, the current government also makes use of the Ahtsoglou - Brutsi or Brutsi - Ahtzioglou, for accuracy, where the government will each time determine the minimum wage for the integration and manipulation of workers and folk squares. This is what you intend to do. But, of course, all these anti-grassroots measures that came with the amendment to today's bill are not of a temporary nature. They came to stay, as the whole of the antique - memorial measures remained and to target the lives of the workers and the squares of the populace. In the hands of the workers, it is precisely to manipulate all these policies which have condemned them to impoverishment, poverty and a life without a future for themselves and their families and, on the contrary, to organise their struggle for a more overall overthrow of this situation. Because possibilities exist, there is the potential for the world to live much better and it will be able to live much better when capitalist profit and capitalist system disappear from the middle. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u423	Be well. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Haritsis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you requested the floor before the Parliamentary Representatives to make your speech. We gave him up, because we thought you'd have something new to tell us, so we'd have to answer. Again, I'm afraid. We have heard the same arguments, what the government has constantly mixed up for pandemic and, above all, the arguments, which, in my opinion, shows your complete misgivings about what is going on in Greek society at the moment, is that we have heard you say that everything is going well. Everything goes "ball" to both the economy and the pandemic, you've done it all well, there's no problem. So go on, so keep hearing these things the society that is experiencing this extremely difficult reality and I will put it in evidence then. But I come to the speech on this bill, because, of course, it is an important issue that we are discussing today, integrating Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament to give competition authorities the power to enforce the rules more effectively and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. And it is not, as, unfortunately, that you have tried many of the speakers in the House to present it as a technical issue. It's not a technical matter at all. It is a matter of extreme political importance, and an issue that is extremely critical and the criticality of this reality is dictated by the same. For as long as you do not want to admit it, Mr Minister, the Greek economy is currently experiencing a painful market deregulation, precisely with dishonest inflation that threatens consumers and abuses the country's development prospects. The enforcement of rules, therefore, decisive regulation, conflict with speculation and strong interests are a one-way path for a progressive way out of this new crisis that has already made its appearance. Because, of course, no one can claim that this debate we are having today is taking place void. Unfortunately, the country has the very bad fortune in these extremely difficult conditions to have a government that insists on its neoliberal obsessions. Empires condemning the country in a peculiar loneliness because, look at what is currently happening in the international environment. We see an international debate that revolves around the need for decisive state intervention and for strict regulation on the markets against the immunity of speculators and oligopoly. The Commissioner for Competition of the European Union recently named oligopolistic interests as enemies of competition. Even in the world's largest capitalist economy, in the United States, the American President imposes regulations against the interests of monopolistic groups. We have upgraded cooperation between the European Union and the United States on competition issues. We have European governments that prioritise the fight against cartels and speculation. What's going on in our country? To say this with a phrase, Minister, the Greek economy is currently facing an unprecedented phenomenon of "cartification". This is not the first time that this has been the case, but it is the first time that this has been the case on such a large scale and on such an extent. Even when? When an obsolete European funds, recovery fund, ESDP 2021 - 2027, new Common Agricultural Policy, Fit-for-55, Fair Transfer Fund are expected in the coming years. He wrote on Sunday, Mr. Karakosis in "BIMA" that we are talking about four to five Olympians. It is the money that the Greek state and the private sector will have to manage in the coming years. Instead of taking advantage of these unprecedented possibilities to finally draw up a strategic plan that will broaden the country's production base and cover the investment gap of the Greek economy in terms of participation as many economic agents as possible, domestic enterprises, large, medium-sized and small, what are you doing? Close the system while you can, limit it. A few choices. That's the government's logic in all fields. And how exactly do you expect the oligopolistic phenomena to fall? With a Competition Committee which has no tools in its hands, which on specific markets cannot even intervene, which is subordinated? Even the chairman of the committee himself told you about the consultation of the bodies. So one issue is all the 'cartification' that occurs in very critical sectors of the economy. Another very important issue, the number one issue, if you like, is the question of accuracy. It is the accuracy that threatens family budgets, threatens the viability of businesses, threatens the jobs of hundreds of thousands of workers. In these circumstances, you insist - and today we have heard it - that nothing is happening and you present a virtual reality when households say they cannot meet basic living needs in food, energy and heating. I have here the data from the latest 'Prorata' survey published yesterday, which they say? 28% 'We can pay with some difficulties'. I'm talking about energy. 39% 'We can pay with many difficulties', 24% 'We cannot pay at all'. Only 7% can pay. That's the situation today. The accuracy of the same poll is the number one issue at the moment, even passed the pandemic. But you are insisting, politically, beyond communication management, that you do not realize that the doctrine of self-regulation is, unfortunately, a dogma disastrous. We had warned you months ago. As early as February last year, when we tabled the first question on the appreciation of the construction industry, the raw materials, we had hit the alarm and we were not the only ones to do it. The market operators did it, the chambers did it, the consumer associations did it. How did you deal with this whole crisis? In three stages. First you said that all this was a disaster of SYRIZA, that there was no crisis. Then you told us - you keep saying it, I heard it again today - that it is an international crisis, 'what to do, we cannot intervene'. Then you went on to say that it is a transient phenomenon, 'then it is, it will be over a few months'. You even identified it on Christmas, 2021. You have been misguided in all these assessments you have made. Instead of taking timely measures, we have in December a record of inflation, a record of 5.1% and even worse - because you insist only on informal inflation - we have explosive increases of multiples of official inflation in very critical sectors, energy, housing, food. You have, of course, rejected our amendment to alleviate burdens by reducing excise duty on energy products. You have rejected our proposals for a serious energy aid programme with income, geographical and social criteria, but also for companies with particular support for energy-intensive sectors, using European funding, and at the same time the concentration that exists in very critical sectors of the market will lead to distortions of competition and price manipulation. The retail trade and the sale of essentials of first need is a characteristic case. We've seen the effects of late-space speculation on base species in supermarkets in the pandemic. We have also asked you a question on this matter. We see what happens in the telecommunications sector with our country to record far higher prices than the European average, with one of the highest charges on mobile telephony. What initiatives have you taken to deal with these phenomena? Of course, there has been a very long discussion over the tests, about the PCR, about the coronary. I will not repeat - I do not have the time - the whole debate. I think people have come to their conclusions. Just one question: do you think that competition has worked in this case? Will you carry out checks on what is currently happening on this market? Of course, the most worrying dimension of all is what is happening in the energy sector. There your responsibilities are enormous. That's not just what SYRIZA is saying, he can say a little overreacting. See what the President of the Union for Industrial Consumers says: 'Except for actual costs of production or price increases on the Greek market'. See what Greek production says, the industry: 20% to 40% in the production cost of the Greek industry. This has already been the case since October. The impact is more important for the Greek industry than for European competition. See what Professor Capros says, who talks about 39%. Indeed, it also quantifies it, 39% skydown profits - so it describes them - electricity producers only for the two-month period of August - September 2021. In fact, all this is happening in a country that for decades has based its development effort on cheap energy. It has never been done what is happening in the energy market before. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, all this is very important to understand what environment is being discussed in this bill. The bill we are debating today - which is too late - is for the adoption of a directive. It is a directive which could indeed be proactive in regulating the market. However, even here you have made a selective integration. You have omitted critical provisions. This has also been said by our rapporteur. You have invented - there has also been a debate on this - and you have retrospectively introduced the incompatibility to remove the then president. But you must respond to what has finally happened, and with the failure to include Article 2a in the draft law in the public consultation, which enabled the Competition Committee to intervene in critical markets on the basis of the logic of the ecosystem and in the event of an abuse of power. Even so, the positive provisions in the transposition of this directive are also weakened in practice, as you do not ensure the way in which you brought it into line with the conditions for its implementation. As regards the selection of members, a positive step is the choice of President and Vice-President from the Conference of Presidents, but below the circumstances. This should normally be the case for all members and not for the Minister to be given overpower. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for two minutes. It seems, however, that, unfortunately, this is not the aim of regulation. The aim is further deregulation, the objective is over-concentration of powers, the objective unfortunately is not to tackle this unprecedented crisis, not to shield the economy, not to protect society from speculative phenomena. I think that was said before some speaker from SYRIZA. See what it published yesterday the economic developments report of the UNHCR for December 2021. I'll testify to it in the Minutes. "The loss of minimum wage purchasing power in December reached 10.4%, while for the average part-time worker 13.7%." And all this when? When we have not yet seen the full evolution of the phenomenon of accuracy, that is, things in the coming months and because of your inertia are expected to become even more difficult. So what are you going to do about all this? Immediate action is required. We are reintroducing our basic proposals: First and foremost an increase in the minimum wage to EUR 800, but today not tomorrow, in order to support households, to stimulate the available income and to increase consumption. And, of course, a basic measure for small and medium-sized enterprises is the effective regulation of the private debt of the pandemic by deleting part of the initial capital so that they can take a breath and survive by the self-employed, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Because, government gentlemen, no matter how long you insist ideologically attached to obsolete neoliberal doctrines, people around you are changing, people around us right now asking for other policies. It calls for policies, which will bring back bold social support measures at the heart of the economy. On this basis, more and more governments are drawing up internationally to respond to the dual crisis of pandemic and accuracy. At this time of the great uncertainty we are experiencing is the sure thing, that there are proposals, there are possibilities for a substantial reintegration of our country into health, economic and social levels. What does not exist, unfortunately, is the political will on the part of the government. That's why you choose to deny reality, you choose to build a virtual reality. At a time when disparities have increased you have voted for a budget which does not provide for a single euro for the unemployed, for the workers, for the businesses at risk of locking, as if there were no pandemic. After all, the Deputy Minister of Finance told us that "we believe that the financial consequences of the pandemic will be over the first few months of 2022". Evidently, this has been disproved too. Cut regular health expenditure in these circumstances of the pandemic crisis. There is not a single euro for this budget to deal with the accuracy, which makes the income of the household squeeze, which threatens the viability of the company and narrates the country's development perspective. But the more you insist on responding to the multiformal crises that surround us with a mixture of inertia, virtual reality and emphatic idealism, the more painful the consequences for society will be. We insist that Greece be synchronised with international phasing-out, fair and sustainable development, productive transformation with substantial state intervention to regulate the market and support the real economy, and regulation of the market, of course, also in the energy market. When the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, just last October, asked PPC last November to proceed with tariff reductions of 30% and after 42%, was that not an intervention? When we see the French Minister for Finance, Mr Lemer, presenting a proposal now, in the European Commission these days, to ask EDF for greater tariff reductions, is that not an intervention? So there are solutions. What does not exist is political will on the part of an obsessive, ideological, neoliberal government. We will not let you condemn Greek society in an endless transition from one crisis to another. With an ally of society, we will make a reality of the new principle that our country needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u427	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u428	Only one question to my dear colleague Mr Haritsi. I did not understand well, you said a reasoning in relation to the latest "PRORATA" poll and "let's see the bell he makes", something you said about the poll. You, with the polls, have been negative so far. Oh, if a poll is a little better for SYRIZA, this is the real poll, and if your other polls make two digits, these are bad polls. I'm saying that so we don't waste our time, we get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u430	Did you get the floor for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u431	Adonis Georgiadis is this, Mr. Zachariadis. What can we do? You have the floor, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Georgiadis, Minister, did you hear what I said? What evidence - I've put it in the minutes - of your poll? I have presented to you the evidence that they are saying that at the moment the accuracy is the number one problem for Greek citizens. I have presented to you the evidence, which says that for the energy sector more than 7%, which says it is costly to pay its bills, everyone else says they have small, moderate, major difficulties or inability to pay. I have given you the information which says that the prices in the supermarket according to the citizens have already increased a great deal. That's what I told you about. Is that what you have to say to the Greek citizens? You choose to turn it into a party controversy again. But it does not matter what you answer to me and what you answer to SYRIZA, but what you answer to the Greek citizens about this difficult reality they are experiencing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u434	Let go, Mr. Georgiades, after you speak. Mrs. Arabaji is waiting too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u435	I need a second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u436	Then Mr. Haritsis will need seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Haritsis and I have a nice conversation. Dear Mr Haritsis, if we waited for the survey of any company - I do not underestimate this, I do not underestimate any polling company - to understand that accuracy is the number one problem that concerns our fellow citizens today, namely that fellow citizens confirm to us in the poll that increasing inflation worldwide today is the world's biggest problem in all the countries of the world, we would be indicted. The United States of America announced in December inflation of over 7%. They haven't seen him since the 1970s. If we needed "PRORATA" to understand that there is a problem with accuracy on the planet we live on, I'm sorry. You just do what you don't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u438	Is there a problem in the country we live in?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u439	Obviously, the country we live is part of this planet. Do you have any magical way of pulling her away from planet Earth and taking her to someone else? Oh, no. We will always tell our fellow citizens the truth. When there is a global problem, it will affect our lives as well. Our job is not to solve the problems of the planet. Our job is to solve the problems, as far as possible, which are presented before us. And I told you, and you went past it, that according to today's EUROSTAT figures Greece has the place that I told you. You insist with the elements of the UFO. You will allow me, I respect the GFCM and its institute very much, but between EUROSTAT and GFCF, I will choose EUROSTAT as the most valid one.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u440	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgiadis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Fotini Arabatzi, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President. Forty years they had to see, as the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, said, the United States, this wave of accuracy, thirty years ago, the United Kingdom. And perhaps some people consider, accusing the New Democracy, that it is probably responsible for this global and incoming accuracy, that we are something like the gala village, that is, outside the general caterpillar. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we really know this, we ambassador it and we want it. Politics is the battle of the practicable one, which this government, of course, gives every day. The President politely expressed his concern that Mrs Arabatzi is waiting. I have been waiting very much for the truth, Mr President, not only because the bill that we are discussing and voting on today certainly has its own interest, but mainly because SYRIZA never stops surpriseing us. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Why do they come here, ladies and gentlemen, and make suggestions in the morning for modesty and humility on the occasion of the New Democracy logo? On social media, namely Facebook and Twitter, and not on the Prime Minister's personal account or the Rafah government. The people of the party who have within them and unregulatedly tolerate parliamentarians, such as Mr Paulakis. In other words, the definition of non-compliance, the insult of the institutions, the man who has just threatened against justice, the police force who was responsible for his work, because he has tried to impose a fine for not complying with the measures against the pandemic for which you are so much tired in and out of Ethiopia, the man who attacked justice by speaking of a second School of Judges and a parallel legal system, in fact threatening whether or not they are ever coming back to the government, the judges that they will send them to the pension, the man who is against justice for calling Mr Vaxvanis, the man we do not forget that he has threatened journalists to put them under the land. If we don't forget, the man who threatened that the second time we have to control all the joints of power, the next time it's going to be the lesson we've taken. It goes very much, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA to make suggestions, among other things, that with a great deal of petty and micropsy you shine yesterday in your absence, in a day of confessed feeling of national upbringing for the defensive armour of the country, for the worthy of the Armed Forces, for the geostrategic self-confidence of the country. He said that very well as a question from the Minister. Who was yesterday from SYRIZA at the six-fighting Raffa ceremony? The 'Mr Nobody' that the film says, Minister. And, of course, the regrettable thing was not that you were absent, regrettably it is the excuse that your members, and so on, have announced. Theodoros Dritsas and Georgios Tsipras to justify the unjustified, saying they did not attend because they said the parties' leaders were not invited, while you know very well that the members of the relevant Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence were invited and you also know that there all of our MPs, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution, I mean the parties that voted for the agreement. And they continue, by saying in the announcement, of options that are indifferent to economic costs in such a difficult period for the Greek society, but also to the Greek Defence Industry. I read the announcement: 'Such choices do not only ensure...' - Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Dritsas continue - 'in fact the country's defensive shield, but on the contrary there are problems of dependence and insecurity.' Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. These choices you're referring to are the acquisition of French fighters? Because if they are, the ones you are implying, you were voting in the House on June 14, 2021, and so on. And if not, what was that quote in your yesterday's announcement? Once again you are inferior to the circumstances, miserable, petty and followers of course "not all". Like miserable and petty, you are also for raising the minimum wage. Why, instead of applauding a few days before the Prime Minister's announcement, that instead of June the brave, the important increase in the minimum wage will be made earlier in May, what did you say? That Mr. Mitsotakis is panicked by the anger of the workers, and that is why he brings more forward the increase in the minimum wage. And, of course, after you said this imaginary argument, then what did you do? You asked the Prime Minister to now make the increase and not in May, of course, by ignoring the important, large budgetary footprint that would have such an acceleration in the already determined minimum wage increase, and of course it is clear that you have repeated that if you ever came to power again you will make the minimum wage at EUR 800. You know, this certainly has the same value and credibility, as with the infamous salary of EUR 751 that you would have just taken over power in January 2015, the memorials that you would rip out with a law and an article and many other charming things that the Greek people paid for on the 100,000,000 euros and remembered them in the darkest colors. But yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, it was also an important day, because in addition to the Rafahs, the unemployment rate in November was announced at the lowest levels of the last decade, which shows that the government's policies obviously yield and result in more and more jobs. Of course, we have a long way ahead of us, and the Prime Minister himself recently told a television interview that the levels of unemployment really do not allow us to be reassured. However, for the first time, the creation of new jobs is not a slogan, but it is only a few or a few constant acts every day. The issue of the new 10-year bond, which brought together high demand and the quality of capital, has been successfully completed and crowned, which is very important for every citizen, in the light of the following. It is precisely because investors worldwide who are obviously interested in coming to our country to create their capital, thus creating jobs, showing confidence in the Greek economy and its prospects and acknowledge that the unprecedented support of society, entrepreneurship and the world of work with almost EUR 43,000,000 in the pandemic crisis was made in a rational and prudent manner. But good news from the economic sector, since we are talking about competition law - I am focusing on it, as it is our legislative initiative - is coming, you will allow me to say the word, by the way. Just yesterday one of the largest companies in the world - I say only that its capitalisation exceeds 2.3 trillion dollars - the MICROSOFT filed the file on its investment in Greece by creating three Data Centers. On Monday it was announced that the budgetary revenues were better than expected, which means that the budget is better placed at the beginning of 2022. Last Friday, FITCH upgraded to positively Outlook, i.e. the performance of the Greek economy, confirming that our country is in orbit to recover the investment grade. In 2021, ladies and gentlemen, a record of all export seasons was reached, with the product of the agri-food sector as a whole. Thirty-six years later a positive trade balance was recorded, while the simultaneous increase in foreign direct investment reached the highest levels. After 2008, with the extremely positive performance of 2021, despite the fact that we experienced the pandemic crisis and the imported inflationary cycle that goes beyond the original forecasts, the fact that the economy is driving in 2022 at a growth rate of 5%, as the Prime Minister said, driving GDP not only above 2019 levels, but at the best performance in the last decade, will be the first of the historical performances of 2022. The central objective for dynamic growth now is very much based on investment. The aim of the new year is to increase by 21%, which, once achieved and all the signatories to that year converged, is the best performance in the past twenty-seven years. This will be the second historical performance in 2022. The third comes from the budget of the Public Investment Programme, as in 2022, for investments and projects over 11,000,000 euros will be spent through the EIF. This is a record of at least eighteen years, based on budgetary data, as well as the highest absolute level of public investment for as long as harmonised data are available from national accounts. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, not only concerns those employed with the economy, it is not just about the headlines of the financial newspapers or the 'climate' of the financial sites, because they concern each Greek and every Greek, because investments bring new jobs and increase national income. They contribute to the development and creation of the financial area, from which the government's policies will be financed, without - I repeat - derailing or jeopardising the country's medium-term progress. Such policies are - I say, for example - the growing reduction in taxes and social security contributions. I note here that there really is more nerve for the people who have imposed twenty-nine taxes in their administration, the people who have reached the tax from 13%, for example, for Greek farmers up to 45% when this government has come and the first time it reduces taxes and insurance contributions, reduces HNPI, reduces the advance payment of income tax from 100% to 55%. It is therefore a further reduction in taxes and insurance contributions, active employment policies and features of the first meaning, support for health, education, security and, of course, national defence. This rational and prudent economic policy gives us the opportunity for substantial interventions and the large front of imported inflation, of course with the energy, as the analyses say, from the accuracy of more than 68%, is about increasing energy. Activate and exploit a series of tools. A further ECU 1.3 billion has already been allocated. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000 for consumption between 1 August and the end of December 2021. Another 395 million in January has already been announced for electricity in households and commercial invoices, 157 million and 133 million respectively. They have been announced for gas consumption for the households 54 million, for commercial industrial tariffs 51 million. We also have continuous market controls at administrative level. At institutional level we have taken the initiative of the European institutions to take support initiatives, as was this first-hand office - to allow me the word - of the Greek Government to ask the Competition Directorate for approval of the state aid for energy costs, which was approved. We are, of course, doing legislative interventions, such as this very important banning the increase in the profit rate to a level greater than the levels of February 2020, which was the necessary legislative tool to bring this attempt to regain the stubbornness, which went to see for the KN95 masks. Of course, it is also the initiative that we are discussing today to upgrade the Competition Committee. All of these are the positive performances, the positive dynamics of our government, which has admittedly managed most, at the same time, different and acute crises over the last decades. You, on the other hand, are trying to reduce, undermining, plunder as if you did not learn a drama about where your incarcerable populism led you. In fact, I wonder whether logic, Polakis, has invaded the party of Officerial Response so much, which now affects the whole of your speech and your actions. And I'm really wondering, until when will your party have him in the unavoidable position? If everything I mentioned, starting with my speech, were said, ladies and gentlemen, by a New Democracy official at the time when you were a government, you would have dismantled the pavement roads. Now, however, there is nothing wrong, no one dares to stand against Mr Polakis, no one dares to tell him to stop his undemocratic behaviour. And yet I am impressed by the fact that journalists and websites that support you and you and Alexis Tsipras, are wondering what is happening in SYRIZA and raise questions directly and openly, as the journalist, Mr. Lakopoulou, recently, said, "no more goes, what Tsipras is building it down, when with his pitiful word and political insanity and now pretending to be "Robin of the taverns". Are they not our words, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are they words of your own people who have said and wonder why two standards? It would be a good answer at last. And answer, in order to solve the question, among other things, Mr Kurubli, because he has been deleted, while Mr Paulakis remains strong and unmovable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close, ladies and gentlemen, and I say that we are opposed to populism and your opposition, even to the issue of pandemic, for which, of course, you have a pan-European originality and, possibly, a global one, we are building, managing incredible crises, Greece next day, Greece, the rationalisation of the tax environment, the attraction of investment, the creation of jobs, Greece, the preparation and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u442	Thank you. The rapporteurs will now take the floor for two minutes. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u443	The Communist Party of Greece and today's debate on the draft competition law verifies for a fundamental observation that the condition for capitalist development and the armouring of the capitalist economy is to strengthen the competitiveness of business groups to ensure their profits. In this strategy, both SYRIZA and the Change Movement and the other parties are fully aligned, and it appeared particularly from the disorientation and senseless confrontation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, precisely to hide their agreement to the substance of the draft law. SYRIZA, hiding behind his finger, made a desperate attempt to diversify from New Democracy, while he is strategically identified, saying he is fighting for healthy competition against carteling. Is it possible to believe that cartels are just a Greek peculiarity? Is he ignoring or paranoid about reality? Neither one or the other, in practice, wants to hide his agreement to the free economy, the sacred cow of capitalism, the free competition, which is slavery to workers. However, it does not dare to say that it is not the distortion of competition that produces cartels and monopolies, but it is itself the competition that produces them. With regard to the ministerial amendments, first of all, I should like to welcome once again the unacceptable status of tabling ministerial amendments with many, serious and different contents, forcing the parliamentary groups to vote on the amendments as a whole, rather than giving them the power to vote separately on each provision, because some of us want to vote against them, others want to vote on them and others want to vote on them. Only the amendment with a general number 1189 and a special 104 incorporates it into the draft law, giving the opportunity to the first provision on civil protection to vote against it, because it is a mockery to say that, in order to ensure the immunity of civil protection, we must give NATO EUR 8.5 million for the provision of services, for a civil protection that you are constantly degrading and delivering and its design and organisation to NATO with an Interconnector office through the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. In the second article on self-self contracts for Covid-19 we vote'residents'. Mr President, allow me, but they are amendments to which we must take a position. Three minutes, when time has been ruined, what to tell you! Please, let me. For the amendment at a general rate of 1190 and a special 105 we shall vote 'at present', although there are too many articles. We are voting against Amendment No 1193 and Amendment No 108, the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, as a whole. In Articles 1, 5 and 6 we would vote 'the present'. Unfortunately, we have to vote in its entirety. However, in its overall vote the provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall apply. And let me dwell on the specific rules in Article 4 for workers in the public sector who are in suspension of duties. It is a provision that comes as a follow-up to the "population" made by the government in hospitals by suspending the six thousand health and the long-term ban on recruitment. It is in line with the logic of compulsoryity, by forming dangerous operating conditions of the already subordinated public health establishments. It is, I would say, particularly suspicious of the government's insistence on suspension, when health workers are exhausted and the diseasers die in ranches. And the question is: Why is this government insistence? Even if the extortion measures introduced by the Government and significantly increase the proportion of vaccinated, the developments themselves show that the non-existence of state preventive measures, the disgraceful state of public health units, the significant reduction in the effectiveness of vaccines or their serious cancellation due to the mutations, will act as a greenhouse of the problem that exposes the people, whether vaccinated or invasive, to very serious risks. The JRC's position is to bring back the six thousand sanitary officers you have suspended, with the appropriate scientific evidence for testing on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Comrade, please. We had a whole debate today at the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u445	We did, but listen to me. The Minister has intervened countless times. It has circumvented twice as much time, and so has the parliamentary representatives. Please very much. All rigour won't be expressed at the moment I'm at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u446	Of course not. I wasn't in the past. Come on, you've reached twice the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u447	I would therefore ask you to have this tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u448	But there's the relative tolerance at 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u449	But you determined a three-minute limit. Is it possible in three minutes for these amendments to be put on the table?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u450	I have defined it on the basis of what you have spoken about, Mr President. What am I supposed to do? That's what they gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u451	Well, I repeat. Please very much. Not all your rigour to me, the representative of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u452	But I don't personally have with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u453	When the Minister and Parliamentary Representatives are being destroyed twice, why is there not the same rigour?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u454	I'm strict in general. Please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u455	With regard to the suspension of the six thousand health workers, the JRC's position is that they should also come back here, and Article 3 of the amendment with a general number of 1193, and Article 108 for the authorisation of special purpose in parents whose children are ill even worse, as is Amendment 1194 with a special specialist, 109, which we are voting against because it contains provisions against workers who have a shameful provision, the gift to employers, by introducing teleworking even for CIVID patients and a reduction in wages as much as 50% of the paid special leave of parents whose children are ill. In any case, the individual responsibility and penalties imposed by the Government are certain that they cannot function as substitutes for the lack of organised and systematic information, the necessary pre-vaccination checks, the follow-up of post-vaccination people, the subordinated public health units, the almost non-primary primary health care. The government is therefore accountable for following the unscientific one-way of vaccination to deal with the pandemic, while it is shown that the necessary vaccination, if not combined with all the necessary prevention and protection measures, which is the responsibility of the State, such as the ones dealing with co-financing in public transport, at workplaces and in schools, cannot have a substantial effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u457	All of this, therefore, not only do they face, but they give food to the irrational, unscientific and metaphysical concepts surrounding the vaccine. That is why it suits you, and that is why you insist with great zeal in maintaining the controversy of vaccinated and unvaccinated ones, in the hostile attitude of invasive health, just to soften the new privatised NS.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u459	But I would ask you, Mr President, once again to be very careful with speakers and not every minute to interrupt, creating a climate of anxiety.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u460	But, Mr. Comrade, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u461	I'll beg you very much. You've done it before. You have done so in particular to the KKE spokesman. Special attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u462	Mr Colleague, you have spoken in prototype, as I am told here, 17 and 30. You spoke another eight minutes. Why...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u463	Eight minutes. Tell me how much everyone else spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u464	But now why should we...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u465	Why this distinction? I don't get it. To stop that story.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u466	There's no distinction. Come on, Mr. Pana, please. Talk from there for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u467	As to how to legislate, I think we have said so many times since this Step. Today we have once again had too many amendments, amendments from the Climate Crisis, from the Finance, from the Foreign, from the Labour Party. It is a tactic that we need to see here very seriously. I shall, however, speak in particular of Amendment 1194/109 by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, an amendment which has articles of different content, and here it is an issue that we need to see. In Article 1, therefore, to be very specific about what we say, we have the provisions on minimum wages. If there was this article separately from the rest, of course we would vote on it, as it is in line with the amendment tabled by January 2020 to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour that we tabled as a Change Movement that concerns the determination of the minimum wage by social partners. And we say yes, although we say that the process of setting basic wages and wages must be brought back to the social partners through dialogue. In Article 2 we have already tabled our own amendment on the facilities for parents in the private sector because of the disease of children. You didn't accept her. Article 3 is an existing regulation, whereas Article 4, which relates to compulsory expenditure, you know well that we have passed Article 29 of the Treaty. However, with your tactics, you have made the message very blurred with regard to the compulsoryity and the different approaches taken by your ministers. However, as a whole we cannot vote in favour of this amendment in the way it comes, namely articles of different content in an amendment. That is our question today. As far as the amendment to the Drama swimming pool is concerned, I would like to say a few words. We shall vote as an amendment. We believe that everything that is positive in a local society has proved too many times that we are making a real contribution to regional issues and, more generally, to citizens and society.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u468	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is adjourned: 'Modernisation of competition law for the digital age - Amendment of the n. 3959/2011 and incorporating Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the provision of competence to the competition authorities of the Member States in order to impose more effectively the rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.’ We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all of them will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty five articles, of five amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u469	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u470	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u471	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Modernisation of competition law for the digital era - Amendment of Law No 3959/2011 and incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on conferring powers on the competition authorities of the Member States to more effectively enforce the rules and to ensure the orderly functioning of the internal market and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u472	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u473	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-20-S1-commons.u474	With the consent of the House at 20.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 21 January 2022, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
