ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 12-1-2022 authorisation, the minutes of the NB's sitting of Wednesday, 12 January 2022, with regard to the vote in all draft laws, were confirmed by the Bureau of the NB:]] 1. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Implementation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Sub-Region plan of Extra-Regional Needs for Marine Pollution from Oil in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and, in cases of emergency, to Combat Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea of the Barcelona Convention’ I would like to make it clear to the House that there are two requests from colleagues who are requesting a short-day leave abroad. The first application is the former President and current member of the KINAL, Mr Papandreou, who is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 13 January to 14 January. The second application is Mrs Alexopoulou Christina, who seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 February to 28 February. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK Debates and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. ‘Pressure of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Comparisons (Revised)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television Administration of the People's Republic of China on the "Travel translation and publication of works of the reason of the classical and contemporary bibliography of China and Greece". And discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Furthermore, the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and capital and the Protocol attached thereto". The process will begin with the discussion and vote of the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and will follow the discussion and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the agenda. The bills of the Ministry of Culture and Sport were passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of the conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes, provided that the chairmen of the parliamentary groups do not speak. The vote of both conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u4	The House has agreed. For the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Concentrations, the Change Movement has expressed reservations, the Communist Party of Greece is against, the Greek Solution has expressed reservation and the Mera25 voted "residents". The rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mr Konstantopoulos, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, won't we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u6	SYRIZA is in favor. Only the parliamentary representative can speak, as the Rules say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, will the debate be on the first or both of the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u8	If you want, you can make a single position for both, so time will be proportionate. Only those who have objections speak. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor. You can talk about both single - tolerant contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's debate is taking place two days after the British newspaper 'THE TIMES', according to which the Parthenon sculptures belong to Athens and must now be returned. This admission of the newspaper 'THE TIMES' is in itself, I would say a small victory, especially when it changes its attitude after fifty years. Today, ladies and gentlemen, after Brexit, the time has come for Melina Mercouri's vision. It is a request she made and remind you of her words: “You must understand what the Parthenon Marbles mean for us. It's our pleasure. It's our sacrifices. It's the supreme symbol of courtesy. It's the tribute to democratic philosophy. It's our ambition and our name. It is the essence of our Greekity." So, ladies and gentlemen, there was no room left in the Acropolis Museum for the great return of the Parthenon Marbles. Today there is the juncture, there is the national united effort, there is among us the faith of Melina Mercouri, which I would remind you again that when this day of the return of the Parthenon Marbles comes, it will be reborn. Now we are discussing two conventions in the field of culture, an area which has been very affected by the pandemic. A few days ago an artists' rally took place, the last means of pressure on a sector for the performance of social justice. For this sector of social justice it means measures to support their income which has collapsed because of pandemic, social justice means that state support is distributed fairly and not only to the small and the small to the large number of people receiving support, while many and small to the small. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want the transition to the pandemic age to be fair, the government should turn to targeted support, Madam Minister, all those affected and leave the horizontal measures behind. Clearly, there are economic constraints in the public interest, there are no surplus resources. Our resources, which are there, need to be shared with justice, rationalized, with merit. Indeed, in the case of the country's creative and cultural sector, the situation is very difficult and complicated, these are professions and activities that are naturally vulnerable to flexibility, as well as to seasonality. We have many small businesses, many small productions, many self-employed. The Artists Register, Minister, has been in a hurry to design state political support. He hasn't given us the answers we've been waiting for yet. A small part of the artists managed to receive support. However, there are many affected people who feel marginalised by the Ministry and the state. They are posed by many two crucial questions. First, is the record operational and inclusive? Second, does that correspond, Minister, to the actual data of the industry? They are two questions worthy of your answers. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we are not all aware of the elements of the sector, which sub-sectors we are in the wider area of cultural and creative industries, what its contribution to GDP is, how many artists and other workers are, it is indeed not possible to have a support strategy. Today, however, there is no luxury of time. Every day both cases and the low turnout of citizens are affecting productions, performances, concerts and the operation of businesses itself. In other words, we are talking about a sector that has implemented what we call'strong COVID pass'. They had access to the projects here only vaccinated and diseased. It is a sector that, from the outbreak of the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has the greatest losses, and let it be kept in mind. The additional measures to curb music and cancel cultural events have created a disturbance. They have brought again uncertainty and all this is indirectly related to today's bill, because every measure taken to deal with the pandemic has an impact on the area of culture. Especially in cultural areas where human contact prevails, there is a clear need for massive, free and repeated self-tests to limit as far as possible the risk of spreading the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance the state attaches to culture also reveals the government's perception of the industry. For us culture, as Melina Mercouri perceived, is a ruthless source of the spread of Hellenism, but also a ruthless source of domestic wealth. The development of this source, unfortunately, is not being sufficiently exploited. I would say here that ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-productions is something that the Greek Academy of Film and the entire community of filmmakers are anxiously awaiting. The development of international film production is, I would say, a major objective here. The production of cinematographic television series in Greece remains a very small part of the domestic economy. On the basis of the information available, 2018 represented EUR 433 million, i.e. only 0,26 % of GDP. This study shows that while the percentage is small, the cumulative multiplier effect in society as a whole is much greater. Something like that you mentioned, Mrs. Mendoni, Minister. Let me remind you what you said: that an investment of EUR 1 million only during the period of implementation of a cumulative project, delivers EUR 236 million and creates forty-five new jobs. I would therefore say that ratification of this convention is a positive step, one that has come to be added to what has been done over the last ten years to strengthen production in the country. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of bet so that the regions can have equal access to the opportunity to host productions. In more detail on the contract, it is envisaged to apply it to multilateral cinematographic co-productions by the Contracting Parties. Incentives were introduced to the EMEA for film production. The 25% subsidy of eligible expenditure in 2017 increased to 35% and ultimately 40% in 2020. So, by reading Article 2 of the Convention on the cost of producers, I note here that it could have been foreseen, Minister, to change the 30% ceiling in order to make it easier to find resources. This, Minister, we would like you to see. However, cinematographic co-productions, based on the contract, are similar to national films. In order to integrate into the scope of the Convention, co-producers of the film project should apply for approval. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, to note that we expect this approval of producers to be made in terms of equality and, of course, of transparency. Article 6 sets limits for the participation of each party in co-productions. In fact, if participation - this must be stressed here - is very small, access to this part of production can be affected. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the recent evidence from the EMEA, a total of seventy-six projects, ninety-four and eighty-two cross-border or foreign projects have been financed in the last four years, with a total budget of 252,000,000 euros. However, there are several issues to deal with. We should be clear. Firstly, international production companies need to learn, apart from the Acropolis, Santorini, Mykonos and all other regions of the country. In other words, we need to know the countryside and the region a little, that every company knows that the Greek province can host great scenes because of the landscape. That is what needs to be done, Minister, targeted by you, by the Ministry of Culture and by the Ministry of Tourism. There must be a synergy between you in this direction. Secondly, education programmes, training programmes, skill-building programmes, because there is a lack of skilled workers, deficiencies which have a significant impact on small productions. There is a need to create structures that will train professionals exclusively for cinema. The Convention also prioritises the maintenance of balance in cinematographic relations, because active cooperation between the parties is constantly being promoted here. Finally, the conditions are laid down for the performance of the works and their promotion at a corresponding festival, as, of course, the Convention replaces the European Convention on Film Co-productions in 1992. I come to the Memorandum of Cooperation and Consensus between Greece and China for the translation and publication of works of classical, contemporary literature from China and Greece. It is a convention, ladies and gentlemen, which will enable the citizens of Greece and China to have access to classical and modern works by both countries. The aim is to translate and publish at least twenty-five titles by each Contracting Party or at least fifty titles, i.e. a total of five years. In order to implement this Convention, it should be stressed that the selection of projects to be translated and issued provides for the establishment of a joint coordination group. I would like to point out here that Article 1 should be laid down in law, which would include the authorizing provision in the definition of the members of the committee. And that is, of course, provided for in Article 2 of the Memorandum. They have important competences and we therefore need to know how they will be defined and who they will be. Madam Minister, this is where we would like your answer. Article 4 also provides that each Contracting Party shall deliver an indicative list of at least 100 projects to be translated. Naturally responsible for cooperation and communication with the other part of the contract will be... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This cooperation and communication with the other part of the Convention will be an organisation that will choose each State. Madam Minister, I would like your attention here. We therefore want you to tell us who this body will be, how the faces will be chosen and, of course, when this body will be designated on behalf of Greece. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the following. The two international conventions currently being ratified will work positively for our country, because this will also develop a culture between Greece and China. I firmly believe that the development of co-productions will have a multiplier effect in the whole of our national economy, in tourism, in commerce and in services. At the same time, cooperation with China on translation and publication of classical works will bring the two peoples together and will help mutual understanding of our cultural heritage and especially the cultural heritage of both countries. That is why, in principle, but also in the articles, we are positive and we are voting for the two sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, a few days ago the people of culture, the artists, the creators, the spectators and the workers of the spectacle were on their way across the country and demanded - they did not demand, because this unacceptable premise was heard in committee yesterday - by the government to take immediate measures for their health and their own survival. They required the possibility for all places to enter as long as required in a suspension regime as affected undertakings in the event of a case or a crash. They demanded compensation through the Artists' Registry, but from August onwards, as culture has never worked as an unaffected industry. They demanded the restoration of the completely absurd and unexplained exclusion of those enrolled in the artists' register after 10 January 2020. They demanded that the trademarks be calculated from the 2021 subsidy in order to allow them to be placed on the unemployment fund. They demanded to change the health protocols for live performances and rehearsals to ensure workers' health. These are, of course, requests beyond fairness, which the government must of course satisfy. I now come to the convention we are discussing today, the Council of Europe, on the coproduction of films. This is, of course, a revision of an earlier convention signed in 1992. The aim of the present, of course, as well as the previous one, is to attract capital for the production of films. Before, however, we want to stand on this Council of Europe in its own right. As you know, the Council of Europe usually appears as an independent from the European Union, and indeed is not one of the European Union's official institutions. You know, however, many times the substance is not in the guys. Because if we look at the political events of this Council of Europe, then it will be very easy to find that this body, whether as a precursor or as a follower, always stable and continuously, supports all the options, as well as the European Union's overall strategy in the economic and ideological field. So this body, the Council of Europe, can be the lamb of innocence and the bulwark of humanism, but in reality it is only another 'built', a faithful guardian of capitalist barbarism as well. So that is what the Council of Europe comes and updates a 1992 Convention on the strengthening of films, as it says. Up to now, with the previous contract of any film cogeneration that met, of course, the conditions of the contract were financed by each country as national production at the rate that the local company participated in this co-production. To attract now funds from both the weakest economic partners are coming and lowering the minimum rates of participation. In this way, of course, what is it seeking? It seeks to extend European audiovisual monopolies to other markets, where their competitors currently dominate, particularly the audiovisual monopolies of the United States. The main aim is to maximise the public, hence the profit not only of cinematographic businesses, but also of those in other sectors of the economy, as through these films and film projects, for example, will be favoured by tourism, transport and so on. That is why the Greek Government, at least by accident, is linking this to the so-called 'extrovert of the country'. Apart from the purely economic objectives, ideological objectives are also set. First of all, the strengthening of the so-called European identity, namely the promotion of a vision of an attractive capitalist reality in a persuasive and, of course, contrary to the harsh reality in which the peoples of Europe are treated equally. Here too, class contrasts through deformative communication lenses come and are presented as national differences between weak and powerful, but they are treated equally by the Council of Europe and the European Union. Second ideological objective: the cultivation of that cosmopolitan spirit of capital, which is coexistent with nationalism, at the expense of of of course the particular experiences of every nation in its history, of historical experiences, of social, cultural, through which of course each nation is approaching reality. The question here, however, is this. Any common historical, cultural, aesthetic attributes, where and where these common attributes exist, among States with different languages, of different cultural characters, can lead to a transcendence of nations and cultures? In our view, no, much more in the context of capitalism. That is why neither the European Union nor the Council of Europe, as an alliance of capitalist states, are unable to overcome either the national states or their divisions. Nor can any common identity and a common culture be created. There is also the European Union itself - and this is what we see every day - as does every nation state, not to forget it, separately from this eternal conflict, class conflict, between values and culture of sovereign classes with those of the exploited, in short, the exploited and exploited. Finally, public growth in capitalism usually means work for all tastes. I.e. equations of aesthetic preferences, but downwards. It means, in short, the development of a market uniformity. In this respect, therefore, for the sake of the commerciality sought by this convention, it is entirely direct and visible that the risk of a great European film tradition being interrupted and that both those brilliant works by the European cinema and the old and the modern ones, and even those schools themselves, the separate schools, which exist in the European cinema, should be allowed to run away. In view of the above, we are of course voting against this Council of Europe Convention on film productions. I shall now proceed to the China Convention on the Translation of Books. First of all, we could say that we are generally in agreement with such a contract. Unfortunately, however, there are some issues on which we have strong reservations as to whether or not this agreement will also contribute to what we say, to mutual understanding and friendship between the peoples. First, because both in the agreement and in the bill that ratifys it is not mentioned at all by what process the Greek side will shape and submit this list of the hundred titles of books. We regard this as an extremely serious deficit in this agreement. Secondly, it does not even mention on which criteria the Greek side will be chosen from the corresponding list submitted by the Chinese to it, those projects which are to be translated into our country. You know, given the enormous size of the Chinese market, the terms and criteria on which publishing houses and authors, whose works will make up this list of hundreds of books, should be quite clear, in our view, so that the agreement does not work, in the end, either in favour or at the expense of some, so that there will not be the slightest shadow in this case. Nor are neither the criteria nor the procedure for selecting the persons to be appointed by the committee nor the publisher, who will ultimately implement this programme when it starts. We do not claim, of course, that all of this could be necessary in the main body of this agreement. We do not claim that. However, in the bill which comes to ratify this convention, there should be these and they could be there so that government intentions can be described very clearly and that the slightest shadow remains, much more so because of the enormous, you know, market in China, but also of the very nature of the agreement, we have a state intervention, which will certainly affect even the content of the project. The project, of course, of the agreement. To sum up, we have a direct State interference in the production and purchase of books, with the consequences of which, particularly in terms of the content of books, we cannot now anticipate it throughout. We are very afraid - and I wish those fears were disproved - that under the conditions of commercialisation of art and literature the room for translations of progressive works are very small. I wish, I repeat, our fears would be disproved. We therefore have too many reservations. And, above all, recognizing, of course, their right to create free from this constant precipitation of economic suffocation, which over time puts the scholars in our country, but we must at the same time point out that opening up a market in general and, of course, in particular, under these conditions, such as this convention, hides many, but too many, dangers to their own free creation. On the basis of all the above, then, we end up voting'residents' in the agreement with China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mrs Asmakopoulou will now be given the floor from the Greek Solution. The Greek solution also has reservations about both sanctions. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, always when we talk about culture and, in particular, about the culture of our country, we are talking about a valuable asset that needs continuous use and upgrading, it needs to be preserved, brought to bear and be inherited in the next generation. Greece throughout the world is the cradle of culture, as its first forms were born and developed in it. It is not only the ancient cultural heritage that we have. Our homeland is characterized by a host of elements of modern culture. Film technique over the years has been transformed into cinematographic communication and plays an important role in our social and cultural life. Especially in today's era of spectacle and expanded communication codes through the new digital forms of expression the role of cinema is redefined, gaining a new dimension, which, although properly used by its cultural managers, can offer unlimited opportunities for social learning and aesthetic culture to viewers. Film education enables viewers to read behind lines, decode data from which the real meaning comes. The Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-productions comes for ratification five years after it was signed. First of all, we consider that it is appallingly flexible to say that films produced as multilateral co-productions enjoy the advantages conferred on national films. Such fluctuations should be made if nothing else to be specified more. We believe that in the way they are formulated, they do not protect to the extent that small holdings should be involved. It is well known that high production costs are high. And when we talk about smaller states, such as our country, or they will not have the possibility of being involved in mathematics or of being involved with a very small percentage. But is that the real target? It is also clear that our reservations that the involvement of co-producers for creative, technical and artistic staff, performers and installations must be commensurate with their investment. The Member States with less economic potential will therefore be completely neglected. It is a precarious choice that the criteria for participation should only be economically. Financial co-productions are not sufficiently identified below. This is a general provision. It appears that producers are allowed to enter on the basis of subjective criteria. It is also mentioned that there should be a general balance in the Parties' cinematographic relations. This general balance of what exactly is being analysed? We believe that he is extremely incomplete as he says. Incomplete, however, because it does not state exactly what will happen in the event of disagreement between the parties, it is also the provision for languages in which the competent authority of a Party may, when granting the co-production scheme, require the co-producer, established in its territory, to make a final version of the film in one of the languages of that Party. Continuing, we consider it extremely unfair that the criterion for the promotion at an international festival should be an economical one and that it should be made from the place where the largest co-producer is established. Furthermore, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, after consulting the parties, is given the opportunity to invite any State which is not a member of the Council of Europe. What exactly is it? Cinema, as another content provider, can contribute to a more realistic uptake of reality, to a social intelligence, bridging knowledge of the experiences of the ex-motion world. Regrettably, however, modern civilization is crumbling. He has been hit deeply and severely by successive crises. Regarding the ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and the State Administration of Press, Publications, Radio, Film and Television of the People's Republic of China, we believe that Greece and China have a equally historic culture. It is commonly accepted that over time there was an inseparable relationship between man and book. The book was and is an unstable source of knowledge, a tool of work, a compass of critical thinking. At first, however, it gives us a lot of questions about the fact that it was also in the drawer for so many years and specifically since April 2017. In the Memorandum you also refer to the translation, publication and publication of at least twenty-five titles by each Contracting Party or at least fifty securities in total within five years. We have asked and asked what percentage the fifty titles in total will be for Greece and China. We have asked and asked how much each party's state budget will be charged. It will be established in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding Group of the Project. You leave it indefinite, however, who will make it, and obviously in vain, we do not vote in white. In addition to the representatives of the ministries concerned and the scientists, who will set up the Joint Coordinating Group? You do not make it clear at the same time to us which criteria will be chosen for publishing organisations. In cases of opacity and inaccuracy, we in the Greek Solution are opposed. The Memorandum also states that the Contracting Parties are required to draw up an indicative list of book samples, at least 100 titles of different categories. But you have not explained to us the cost of charging the State budget not only by drawing up the indicative list of book samples but also by sending it to the other Contracting Party. The same shall apply to the body designated as responsible for cooperation and communication with the other Contracting Party. Who's that? Why don't you tell us? Or should we ask, right, why are you hiding him from us? As to the question of the facilitation where this is necessary by one party to the acquisition of intellectual property, we believe that this phrase, which is 'where necessary', should be deleted. And that's because he leaves windows and creates clear legal insecurity. We have also referred to the particular vagueness of the provision on the obligation to provide mutual information on the link of the project, because we know neither their scope nor who will be designated on the part of Greece as responsible for their provision. Reading is about the spirit that exercise for the body. The study and reading of a book may well contribute to both education and the psychosocial utilization of leisure time. The cultural relations between Greece and China are based on mutual respect between two old and important cultures represented by the two countries. In recent years a series of initiatives have been taken, such as filming a documentary on Greece as a tourist destination, touring groups of Chinese journalists in selected resorts that start paying fruit. It is obvious that the attraction of the Chinese book to the country, but also vice versa, is the aim of the Greek side and of China respectively. However, even more substantial targeting should be the better acquaintment of the two cultures through books, without jeopardising the means, houses and organizations to be used for this purpose to alter this spirit. For us in the Greek Solution the integrity of our country, our history, our ecumenical culture and economic development through it are powerful weapons. These important elements must also be protected in the interests of the protection of national society. Finally, give incentives, opportunities and the opportunity to return back to our country, to the country of their hearts, to young people, about seven hundred and fifty thousand, who left in the years of the memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Asimakopoulou. And Mera25 has declared "the present". Mr. Gregoriadis, will you speak as a parliamentarian later?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u15	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u16	Who of the Parliamentary Representatives want to speak? Everyone except Mr. Heta, who won't talk. Mr. Darkness has the floor. Then I'll give Mr. Gregoriadis the floor. Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the two conventions are concerned, despite all the objections and objections we could have with respect to the creators and their interests, we are clear that we are positive. But, Mr President, I would like to say two words about what the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture yesterday tabled to the Chamber. So, in his position in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and the Media, Mr. Doctor, he raised a matter for his work in the area of culture and told us that the SYRIZA government was responsible for the chaos in which modern culture was located and that for four and a half years of governance he did nothing. I must remind you that the political life of our space does not begin on January 2015 that the government took over by SYRIZA. The New Democracy, with Prime Minister Samaras, and with the Secretary-General of today's Minister of Culture, Mr. Mendonis, has abolished collective agreements in the field of culture, in particular at SEE, if you want to talk about this. The government of SYRIZA restored collective contracts to the state theatres and would have restored them to the private sector if its work had not been interrupted in the summer of 2019. I must remind you that when the collective agreements of actors were abolished, the Panhellenic Free Theatre Association, the employers' association, say, dismantled itself and did not have the workers to talk to anyone. There had been an attempt to link this story to the revival of labour tickets, but - we said - the elections came. The Deputy Minister also said that SYRIZA fought against the creation of the Artists Register. Here and if we have a complete distortion of reality! There is nowhere even a communication against the creation of a register confirming it. Our locations have always been in the context of his improvement and the rest - as you can see - is the Ministry's spec is just a policy of failure. He said the Undersecretary also that the government solved the problem in the management of copyright and related rights in our country! This is where logic stops and the sense begins. SYRIZA passed the law on related and intellectual rights. He brought to the House and voted for this collective management. And I do not now hear various excuses that it was a Community directive, because for two years the New Democracy Government had done nothing. So when the SYRIZA government became aware of the complaints of the authors of the crimes of the past, which your governments have been hiding for many years, it immediately ordered management control. And as soon as the results were obtained, he immediately sent them to the D.A. Once the government realised that GDPI was ready to go bankrupt, imposed a resolution commission and made the transitional scheme, the EEAS, as the GDPI did not function, even the money that could be raised, raised and given to the creators. When it is time for you to give - because they were a New Democracy government - permission for the new agency, because by a SYRIZA government a new agency was created for collecting rights from the authors themselves, so that they would be housekeepers in their pockets, you have actually delayed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you understand that ten to twelve minutes have been spoken by previous speakers. Please for a relative tolerance for me, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u18	There will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u19	So when it's time to give permission to this new organization, you've been delayed. The creators were constantly pushing. We had to ask three topical questions as SYRIZA. And after the political and social pressures you have finally given permission at some point. The one who gave a solution to the deadlock, then, is SYRIZA. It is even accepted by leading creators of your own political space with public statements. We'll talk about the EMEA. SYRIZA created the cash rebate, i.e. the tax refund. It is a story our colleagues have been expecting for decades in cinema and television space. A transparent financing system was created, work was given to Greek technicians, actors and others and was strengthened - because it included television - the Greek mythology. New Democracy's coming and what's she doing? It alters this development tool for tax refund. How? Includes foreign invoices in supporting documents up to 40%, which means that foreigners work, get paid at their place, declare the money at their place and don't work Greeks. We have complaints from the associations of Greek technicians that these productions work technicians from neighbouring countries. So what did you do? With the Pierrakakis amendment, you changed the Cretsu Act, No.4487, to finance the television series from 30,000 the episode to 10,000. Look, with 10,000 euros it can become a masterpiece, but that's one in a million. The TV, the cinema is industry. It's not as good as 10,000 for an episode. The 10,000 suit those producers and perhaps those channels that do not care to have a low level. But there are also producers and channels who want to have a serious level, and we must strengthen them. The 10,000 euros per episode are mocking. SYRIZA on the EMCDDA brought funds from the Public Investment Programme and there was a sum of 4 million euros. The New Democracy has redoubled this amount. This is not the first time that culture and entertainment have been targeted as the focal points of the pandemic, to come to our daily lives. Since the beginning of this adventure the only measures taken by the Government have been to limit cultural events. While the dissemination of COVID is huge, the only measure taken by the government is to ban music. COVID is spreading through music, not in schools, as we have said at other times, with twenty-five and twenty-eight children in a small hall or in public transport, which we circulate on to each other as sardines. We have cancellations of scheduled events and no compensation. There was a pan-artistic rally. We had the opportunity to convey the artists' demands and we from SYRIZA and other parties. With my colleague in both properties, Cleona Gregoriadis, we detailedly referred to the measures. I do not think that we should do the same now, but I would remind you briefly that we are looking for the opportunity for all the sites to be regarded as affected by history in the event of a case and for compensation. We request compensation from the Artists' Register since August 2021, a rental subsidy, direct measures to support the creators and performers of the Greek song with the support of collective management organisations, to calculate the trademarks from the 2021 subsidisation through the "ERGANI" so that there can be a possibility of entering the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u20	Please complete, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. Time is too pressing, problems are great, but unfortunately this is not the case, it is time. Let's move on, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u22	We apply the Rules of Procedure and there is a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u23	Yes, Mr President, that is what I am saying. We are interested in the Rules and Time and not the essence. We don't care that there's no health care...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u24	How do you draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u25	The government comes out and tells us that 47 euros is the plaque...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u26	You're out of the question, but I'm not telling you that you're out of the question. I tell you that double time is for the rapporteurs only.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u27	Will you give me some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u28	I'll give you one, but I want you to be satisfied...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u30	Double time, because they are two legislations, is for the rapporteurs and not for the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u31	The area of culture is affected and we have great concerns about small and large issues. What do you want? Can we now take the story of the Parthenon sculptures, which the Prime Minister asks us to borrow, that is to say, to recognise the ownership of the British, when the British themselves, like the TIMES in London, change their position and say: 'give back the marbles, the Parthenon sculptures'? No, the Prime Minister insists that we borrow them. There's a fragment from the Sicily Museum, that's right, and we applaud it. Another one was transferred from the Archaeological Museum, but Boris Johnson is clear. He told us that Elgin was bought under the laws of the time and that the United Kingdom has a long-term position on sculptures. And the little ones, and the daily ones, and the great ones, such as the return of the Parthenon marbles without footnotes, of the return as stolen from Elgin, are very important and we call on the government to listen to the forty-nine artists who organized the rally the day before yesterday and finally to deal seriously with the great problem that has this gloomy period of time we are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr. Gregoriadis from Mera25 has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. I also thank the gentleman who cleaned the Step so I wouldn't be in danger and he'll bring me water. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as the new year has just begun, in 2022, I feel the need to wish more effectively this year that we have just begun the Greek people from this position, from the position of the Greek Parliament. In fact, I would say that there is an immediate need to defend more effectively - if we defended at all - a subset of the Greek people, small but miraculous in the years of our history, that of artists and those who work in the arts, technically supporting us artists. Mrs Mendoni, I imagine - and you have told all tons of this - that you are satisfied with the way you support and assist culture and workers in it. We, as artists and as opposition, are not at all. I have put these to your Deputy Minister, Mr. Yatronolakis, in committee the day before yesterday, and he said that you have had a plan from the very beginning of the pandemic on culture in particular and that this plan is constantly modernising and adapting it and that it is effective, that is, it works and supports culture very well, and that is what they know, he dared to say - I am sorry for the expression, but I think he is daring - artists and those who work in culture. I still have a completely different sense in these two years. I am an active part of culture, of whatever level, I am not saying that I am a serious artist, but I say that I am a party as I work thirty-seven years as an actor, I have had an idea since 1984 or 1983, so I know something. But of course it is always, as I like to say from this Step, my word against your word, Mr Varoufakis's word against Mr Mitsotakis's word. Let's see, Ms. Mendoni, what the artists themselves say, who, as my previous colleague said, the dear Mr. Skouriakos from SYRIZA before, is not accidental that forty-eight unions, that is, all, not even a trade union of the artists, were missing the day before the pan-artistic rally. As the dear friend and colleague did not have time to say the requests, I will say them and blossom them with some things that matter to the viewer, to the Greek people who listens to us from there. An open letter that describes exactly why this pan-artistic rally took place was sent to the Prime Minister in the past few days. The Prime Minister has taken it and as it is open, it has been made public. He says: "To the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis", and I will complement him as always, but also very seriously, saying, he has the only privilege of being the only Prime Minister in the world who happens at the same time, at the same time being an anonymous company for the passive oligarians who are engaging in our homeland. Our colleagues say to him: "Mr. Prime Minister, with the rise of coronary cases due to the 'Omicon' mutation, new measures have been announced, which are once again limited to prohibiting music and the closure of catering and bars at 12 o'clock. It is not the first time, Prime Minister, that culture and entertainment have been targeted as an outbreak of pandemic over-transmission. Since the beginning of this adventure, the only effective measures taken by this government are to limit the cultural manifestations and the social life of our country. So explain to us, my fellow artists - who seem to be more matched by my view that you have not supported them sufficiently and not by your own Minister - because while the proliferation of COVID is huge at the moment in our country, the only measure that your Government is taking is the ban on music and not, for example, the squeeze of public transport routes. You know, whatever you say, no matter what I say, the world every morning comes in by a million-and-a-half in public transport and knows what's there. Also, the decrease in the number of pupils in school rooms, which Mrs Kerameo increased this year and from twenty-five this year to twenty-five. Mrs Keramos also said the amazing argument, Mr President, that the schools were well opened and twenty-five thousand children were found to be sick in the first two days, because we would not know it and split the pandemic into the community further. But, well, what kind of argument is that? He thinks we're stupid, and I'm sorry for the expression. What prevented you, dear government, doing the exact same tests, sending our children a week later to primary schools and high school? What prevented you from knowing exactly these twenty - five thousand children? You'd know and be at their house. The ten thousand children diagnosed on the second day, Mr President, were the first day in school. More kids are stuck, so. So we didn't win anything you sent them to school. They had to stay home for another week, and this week they had to run tests to know who they should go to school next week. You didn't. There's this. While your Government in culture asks workers to suspend all our activities, raising the burden of pandemic you on the other hand do nothing to strengthen our public health system. On the contrary, two whole years now the government has continued the same unscrupulous criminal management of the pandemic. It's not me, it's called forty-eight clubs of all kinds of artists in our country, from POTO and the Greek Actors Association to everyone. Although the cancellations of the scheduled events, Mr President, are made under the responsibility of the Government by the artists and not by our own, workers have never been compensated for them, whether they are festivals, celebrations, or individual local government events or private ones. Support measures for workers and artists are always incomplete, if not inexistent. That's what artists say. The government is retrospectively subsidising the theatrical and musical scenes for the period January to November 2021, while at the same time you do not recognise the need for workers to be subsidised - only companies, not workers - by stopping, despite their persistent claims, the artists' register in July 2021, Mr President. At the same time, the horizontal subsidy criteria, based on the positions, give a lot to the big and crumbs to the small, pushing them faster to close. Since the beginning of the summer it has been constantly imposed locally lockdown for music sites, reaching the point of banning even recorded music since September last year. However, the Ministry of Labour has refused any compensation for the months of August to December. Today we have a universal ban on music with hundreds of canceled cultural events and the poor compensation announced for January and specific codes, leaving thousands of our colleagues out! And, of course, it is not only music, but also culture, since even musicians, the theatrical performances that have not been banned, as we all know, are forced daily to stop either because of cases in the workers or because of the low attendance of the public, which is naturally afraid. The geometric rise of cases in recent weeks has additionally brought us face to face with a new issue. Workers in the logic of individual responsibility by your Government are obliged to pay the cost of tests, when there is a case in the workplace, public structures are left to their luck, not enough to cope with such a work volume, so they have no choice but to pay even more to private health businesses, which, of course, have been uncontrollable to turn the need into an opportunity of enrichment. In this glamorous landscape and with the wave of precision growing every day, we will not be silenced. That's what the artists said the other day, and we were with them, and Mr. Skouriakos and Mrs. Anagnastopoulou and I. We continue, resist, defend our health and dignity and we demand! Listen to what they require, Minister, to put your back and go to your Prime Minister and tell him that he doesn't make it to be an anonymous company, he must be a Prime Minister. You must not let culture starve in the country. So what do they demand? Mr Skouriakos said so, it should not be possible for all places to be suspended as soon as they are closed for compensation through the Artists Register from August 2021 onwards. That's what he did in time and he said it. I'll say what he didn't have to say. They therefore require a subsidy for their rent, together with unilateral declarations through the register, a protective framework for addressing the precision wave and a subsidy for the energy needs of their households. Replacement of the irrational exclusion of those enrolled in the Artists' Register after January 10th. You know the absurd: until January 9th well-built, January 11th to starve to starvation. Direct measures to support the creators and performers of the Greek song. From March 2020 until now, collective management organisations have been dealt with almost with hostility by the state. To calculate the trademarks from the 2021 subsidisation, through the 'ERGAN', in order to be able to enter the unemployment fund, as well as the payment of gifts and the 2021 marks to all beneficiaries. All employees must be compensated in the event of cancellation or deferral of a performance. Now compensation to teachers and teachers of artistic schools, which are senior professional dance schools, grammar amateur schools, dance and deed schools, avenues, cultural bodies and municipal dance clubs, for as long as necessary, to be in quarantine because of illness or has been closed by the school or the body, due to cases. Compensation by the OAED in the event of illness throughout the quarantine period, without the worker requesting the replacement of the days of sickness and quarantine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Solve all issues - I shall now end, Mr President - and mistakes in press cards for the OAED seasonal allowance. To open up and communicate to us immediately - and this is the most important one, and I will close - the artists, Mrs. Minister - and it is up to you - all the elements of the 'ERGANIS' that concern our industries, so that we finally have comparable sizes, in relation to the inputs and outputs, of all fixed and undetermined contracts. This will, in their opinion, show, Minister, the vertical decline in the labour market, especially in the music and technicians sector, but also throughout the spectacular spectacle. They demand to change the health protocols for all live performances. To finally give the state free rapid test before every performance. They call for the strengthening of the ESS and primary health structures, with requirements, at last, private structures and permanent recruitment of nurses and medical staff and decongestion measures for public transport. I won't give you any more time. Ms. Mendoni, I will tell you that you are the Minister of our culture and you have a moral obligation not to let the others die of hunger. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. It was a holy word!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Thank you. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have followed the unsuccessful - I would say - attempt by our colleague, Officer, to devaluate the great success of our nation in the first place, Greece, the government through the Prime Minister of the Government and the Minister of Culture, the return of Parthenon's fragments to their natural space. And as a culmination of all this national effort that has been made over time by our country and which should be united by a fist to return all the marbles of the Parthenon and all those belonging to the Greek civilization, TIMES also comes, with an extension of "the Sculptures belong to Athens, now they must return". It is a very good opportunity, then, for all of us in a full-fledged, national effort, all of which are part of the Prime Minister, but also the Minister of Culture, to achieve what Melina Mercouri started and to see really the Parthenon's marbles come back to their natural space. To stand on another point, because a lot of discussion has been done about the impact of pandemic on the cultural movement. Undoubtedly, the pandemic, as in all sectors of the economy, has also had a negative impact here. But what has our government done? Up to now EUR 448 million in support of the cultural movement and another 300 million are provided for in the Recovery Fund in this direction. If nothing else, it shows both the enormous interest and the sensitivity with which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy, approaches this sector and supports it decisively. To come to the bill we are discussing, a bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport concerning the ratification of two international agreements in our country. The first relates to the revised ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-productions and the second to an agreement between Greece and China on the translation of works of classical and modern literature between the two countries. Culture, colleagues and colleagues, is a concept of multidimensionality, on the one hand, as it refers to our cultural heritage, to the arts, the aesthetics of technology, everyday life and, on the other, to the mentality, the uptake of history and the self-consciousness of our society. For our country culture is an area that can be economically viable, supporting employment, contributing to international competition as a product that is dynamically involved in shaping our Gross National Product. We must therefore all recognise that the two sanctions which we have to vote on today are moving in this direction. So we could agree by leaving aside - and that is what culture demands - any differences between us, since the ratification of the two agreements will only have positive consequences for our country. Cinema, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most popular expressions of culture. It makes a significant contribution to the entertainment sector. It contributes substantially to the economic sector and decisively to the promotion and promotion of our country's cultural heritage. Is this through this agreement promoted the development of the Greek cinema? Of course, because he is given the opportunity through participation at small rates in very large productions and in this sense to promote our country, its natural beauty, our culture, our culture in large countries, through large co-productions, but also at the same time to make use of funds from the international market in order to make national productions that will be displayed around the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the comparative advantages of our country are undoubtedly a great deal and we could say that our cultural heritage is among them. Our cultural heritage, our natural environment, our particular culture, all of this can be promoted through the film partnerships in which our country can participate. I should also like to come to the second convention on the translation of books by Greece in China and also of books by China in Greece, where at least twenty-five of one country and at least fifty of the two countries can be translated and promoted and so will our national literature, our national writers with the Chinese public, but at the same time we will become Chinese culture society. I think that both the Ministry and this convention are moving properly and will have a great deal to contribute to both culture and literature and our national economy. In this sense, Mr President, I would like to call on the whole of the House to vote in favour of the two agreements because, as I said before, they will have only positive effects on the cultural movement of our country, but also on our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor now, Mr Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a good year in health. Before I say a few words about the two contracts in force, I would like to comment on what has been heard outside the contents of today's sitting and of the texts of the conventions. Let's go a little bit to the support measures the government has taken. This government has taken steps for the cultural sector as early as March 2020. With the principle of pandemic, this government has taken measures, which in various categories are summarised by repayable advances, suspension of special purpose workers, insurance contributions of workers on suspension, additional special purpose compensation, rent compensation, compensation by means of an Artists' Register, grant of vacancies in 1920 and '21, exceptional grants by the Ministry of Culture not to its agents, but also to its institutions, which currently total about 448 million and half million, which our rapporteur mentioned, plus 300 million from the RRF for the years to come, plus some 170 million exceptional aid to the cultural bodies supervised by the Ministry of Culture. In fact, we are talking about some 800 million. If this is not called care and measures, then let us see what your own specific proposal would be, not in words, but in numbers, which are annoying, of course, to listen to them, as you constantly point out to us, that we are talking with numbers, but only the figures are the figures that prove reality. I will not comment on everything that has been heard. I'll just say the artists' register. We started with the beginning of the pandemic from scratch. Because, as the Undersecretary of State with absolute competence and completeness in the committee, this pandemic did not create the problems, this pandemic has brought about accumulated problems for decades. So we started with the Artists Register, and what we heard from the Opposition is that it's a fraud, a freckling and an urge that artists should not be registered. These are recorded. And if we want to go to a warehouse or demolition, to be clearer, of which, then, the Opposition and the adjoining to it, we will find too much evidence. To use now the word specula, used by Mr. Skouriakos, specula does not make the Ministry of Culture, SYRIZA does systematicly, systematically distorting the truth in all matters. Intellectual rights, for example, the 2017 Law created a chaotic framework. If we then look at the Minutes of the House, we will see that the other text of the bill was the other and the explanatory statement accompanying him. Let's not just go to these. It has therefore created a chaotic situation with inappropriate provisions and we have reached the point of authorising SAR in February 2020, yes, following various pressures. Why? Because the Ministry of Culture deserved and demanded the implementation of what was foreseen in your bill. And just because we demanded the law to be implemented, within three days, we authorised the NCA from the time the conditions of the law were laid down. That is why the Ministerial Decision of February 2020 was not annulled by the Council of State, because we called for the law to be implemented. Otherwise the authorisation would have already been abolished. Let's see the issue of the Parthenon Sculptures, because I hear there the Prime Minister is spiculing. Well, that government since July 2019 has worked very systematically and continues to work on this topic in order to make Melina's vision a reality. We did not arrive at the UNESCO decision in September 2021. We have arrived through a systematic work of two and a half years and UNESCO comes in September and says for the first time since the 1980s that we have an intergovernmental issue here, and the United Kingdom must discuss with Greece sincerely, noting all the problems it poses in the sculptures of the stay in the British Museum. The Greek Government had and continues to have the permanent attitude that Sculptures in the British Museum are a product of theft and does not recognize predominance and ownership. Everything else you say is spiculous. He turned the shrapnel from Palermo, came back to stay. How did that happen? After fourteen months of systematic work, and we did not say so in the fourteenth month, the Parker of the Sicily Regional Government himself said so. Not to ask what SYRIZA did about the Parthenon Sculptures in the years of his rule. He did absolutely nothing, except for some conference attendance, and this proves the same record of the Ministry of Culture, because no matter what you do, official correspondence, diplomatic relations with the other countries are recorded, they don't stay in the "air". Let us go now and say a few words about the bill for both sanctions. The first Convention concerns the revised Council of Europe Convention on Film Cogeneration, and the second is the Memorandum of Cooperation with China. I believe that the Deputy Minister of Culture, responsible for the issues of contemporary culture, has developed this issue with sufficient competence. So I will not go into details, I will only finally sum up and give answers to the questions that have been raised. The Council of Europe Convention was signed in Rotterdam, the Netherlands in January 2017, while the first Convention was signed in October 1992 and entered into force on 1 April 1994 and has been ratified by forty three Member States of the Council of Europe. However, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the European Film and Audiovisual Cooperatives Fund - EURIMAGES - which monitors compliance with the Convention towards Enlargement with Council of Europe's Member States, the technological, economic and financial progress made in the field of cinematographic creation, as well as the strong interest worldwide in multilateral international cinematographic co-productions had made it necessary to revise the existing convention and replace it by the ratification convention. The review provides for the possibility of extending the scope of the latter to countries outside the Council of Europe. In addition, the contract shall be updated on the basis of technological and financial developments and the procedures for its implementation shall be simplified. What does this really mean for producers? Because they're the ones who care about us. It is clear from both the preamble and the contents of the articles of the Convention that it is of particular importance to the Greek producers, since the review facilitates their participation in international cogeneration films and strengthens their extroversion. In particular, the proportions of co-productions are differentiated to the most favourable in relation to the 1992 Convention, as the minimum is reduced and the maximum rate is increased. In this way, Greek producers can now participate at a lesser rate in an international co-production of high budgets and become exclusive owners of the project in Greece and Cyprus, as well as owners of the operation as a proportion of them in the rest of the world. I would also like to stress that the benefit of Greek producers is also extended to international co-production films of a Greek initiative, which the Greek group can ensure the maximum percentage in medium or low-budget films with a minimum participation of other countries, but which, however, are obliged to recognise the film as a national and to ensure it a commercial career in their country as a national film. Finally, the contract is of particular importance to Greek film producers, as it can also be applied as a transnational contract with those countries that sign it, even with those countries with which Greece has not signed an transnational agreement on film production. The second legislation to be ratified concerns the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio and Others of the People's Republic of China, on the translation and publication of works of the reason of classical and modern biblical production of Greece and China. So that I don't go into any more detail, because the Undersecretary has developed all this, I'll just say a couple of words. In order to implement the terms of this Memorandum by decision and taking into account the introductory notes of the relevant departments of the Ministry, a coordination working group - which is Article 5 - has already been set up since 4 March 2020, which replaced the previous committee, which, although it was set up since 2 August 2017, had not completed its work and many of its members have since resigned. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Two more minutes, Mr President. The newly established coordinating team has already reached a list of at least one hundred projects, which will be proposed to the Chinese side. Of the hundred projects proposed, at least twenty-five titles are published and published by each party. The proposed draft law will give rise to expenditure related to the cost of translation, publishing and distribution in Greece of projects on the ground of the classic and modern bibliography of China. The amount of this expenditure, which will be covered by the regular budget of the Ministry of Culture, is estimated at EUR 200,000 over the five-year period. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the adoption of the two agreements is a given area for strengthening Greece's cooperation with the relevant bodies in other countries to strengthen and support culture and it is coming to complement the actions that we have already taken to support cinema, a sector that is constantly developing and has a huge economic displacement in each country, so also in our country. In any event, the strengthening of cinematographic co-productions as a means of expressing cultural diversity and the establishment of common rules reducing restrictions or encouraging cooperation facilitates cinematographic co-productions and is another step towards defending the cultural diversity of the Contracting Parties, which is a key feature of humanity, in accordance with the UNESCO Convention of 2005 on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. The amendments tabled by the SYRIZA: the two amendments have been tabled, not to repeat them. For the first time, we will reach agreement and assess what needs to be done with the relevant Ministry of Finance. On the second issue of public lending, the State Secretary told you that we are already working on an integrated institutional framework which will be submitted to one of the next bills of the Ministry, after the necessary consultation with the parties concerned and, of course, with the responsible monitoring body on intellectual property issues which the ODI is. The amendments are therefore not acceptable. In conclusion, in the light of the above detailed questions, both on the subject, the objectives and content of the two agreements, I ask you to vote on the draft laws, in order to be ratified by formal law, thereby contributing to the diffusion of Greek culture and the consolidation of Greek producers on the international stage. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. The Minister referred to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u40	No, we're done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u41	I have an extremely brief answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u42	No, please, we can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u43	Why can't we, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u44	Because there's no personal matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u45	There's a personal matter! It was mentioned in my name, and I have to give an explanation!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u46	He didn't even refer to alteration of content...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u47	I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u48	Now, what can I tell you? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u49	Please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and their vote will be taken separately. We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Following the Council of Europe Convention on Cinemas (Revised)'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u52	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u53	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Constitution of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematic Co-productions (Revised)’ has been accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television Administration of the People's Republic of China on the "Project translation and publication of works of the reason of classical and modern biblical production of China and Greece". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u55	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u56	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u57	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Statement of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Administration of Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television of the People's Republic of China on the "Projects Translating and Publication of the Word of Classical and Modern Libraries of China and Greece" was accepted by a majority of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u58	We are now entering the Treasury bill of the Ministry of Finance. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Conclusion of the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and capital and the Protocol annexed thereto’. The draft law in the Standing Committee was adopted by a majority. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of this convention for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes, and of course, provided that the chairmen of the parliamentary groups do not speak. The vote will take place after the end of the debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u59	The House has agreed. So let's go see who they have reservations or who they're against. We have reservations. Only the Change Movement and the New Democracy are in favor. The other parties will take the floor. We are starting with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Happy New Year to all and from the Step of the Plenary Session. Mrs. Mendoni is gone, unfortunately. I would like to make an observation to her that another is to turn the Parthenon Sculptures into Greece and the English to recognize that Greece owns it and another is to return as a donation, because Mr Mitsotakis asks that the Sculptures come as a loan, that we grant something else and that the Sculptures come. It is very different, and the Minister for Culture should know that. As far as the convention we are discussing today is concerned, we also told the committee that this convention is positive, it provides for a fair and stable tax system between the two countries, Greece and Singapore, in order to avoid double taxation, but also tax evasion. This contract was signed when SYRIZA and Mr Katrugalos were also the first and only Minister to visit Singapore, as well as in the governance of SYRIZA, the embassy was created in Singapore, helping very much in economic relations, especially commercial shipping, between the two countries. But we said that the tax evasion that we are trying to deal with and with this convention is a wound to our country, a wound that, as we said in the committee responsible, is certainly not due to the culture of the Greeks, that is, it is not because of what Mr Maravegias said that Greeks usually have the culture to steal from the state and abuse the rights given to them by the state. Mr. Maraveyas was referring to the free PCR test. So that's what we said, that's not the case at all. On the contrary, I stressed that the state often steals the citizens and abuses its power and said that one reason for tax evasion is that many economic scandals in the years of governance of the New Democracy and KINAL have been unpunished and contrary to what had to be done, many times, those who revealed economic scandals were persecuted. Many times, then, instead of the economic scandals being punished, those who reveal economic scandals and, above all, journalists are punished. I was therefore confirmed, twenty-four hours later, by prosecuting Mr Vaxebannis and calling him in an apology as a accused of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. So it is now true that Greece is a country in which the exercise of militaristic, investigative journalism is dangerous, something that the Vice-President of the Commission noted some time ago. The fact is that Greece is now being persecuted not by journalistic opinion - it is not important for you, and besides no journalist dares say what it really thinks - but research journalism. The fact is that the 'NOVARTIS' case has gone to the next stage. The distortion of this scandal by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis has really been humiliated. After you have intimidated the witnesses, after you have taken an active lead, after you have ignored the opinion of the Legal Council of State, you are now making your accounts clear with the journalists who have revealed this scandal and with your political opponents. The fact is that Greece is in the fourth place in Europe when it comes to the manipulation of the media by the government and by Mr Mitsotakis and it is true that this is affecting our democracy. Worse than us are only Romania, Malta and Hungary of Orban. I'm not going to comment on the prosecutors' decision to call Mr. Vaxebanes as a defendant. I believe, of course, that the public prosecutors and the judicial authorities have, as one point, been affected by the toxic situation created by the New Democracy Government, but I obviously do not know the case-file. It'll be judged whether or not it had to be done like this. However, in order to conclude, since we are voting on this agreement, I will make it quite clear that nothing has happened over the past few years about the scandals revealed by Mr Vaxevanis and the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. I shall mention, for example, - and I think that my New Democracy and my colleagues in the New Democracy would like some research to be carried out and the people responsible to be punished, given that something has emerged - the basics which have been said so many times and every time we ask, you say the same thing, or 'you are graphic' or 'they have been answered'. But I don't find any answers. So what about Mr. Mitsotakis' loans? With the "Greek of Chania", the newspaper of Chania, the newspaper that Mr. Mitsotakis had and stopped all publishing activities? What about the loans? Have they been erased? Will they be paid? What's going on? What about the loans from the New Democracy? Will they be paid? Aren't they gonna get paid? Are they increasing? Are they decreasing? Are interest paid? Is New Democracy going to go bankrupt? What about the banks? What are the banks doing for these loans? What about the case of Mr Mitsotakis, the interrogator 'from where'? Will answers be given? Is Mr. Mitsotakis' wife really the manager of this company that Mr. Mitsotakis omitted to include in the "outside you"? Answer us. Let's come here and answer. I am sorry, Mr President, but these scandals were revealed mainly by a journalist who yesterday received a call as a defendant in the NOVARTIS case.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u61	Come on, this is all out of the question. This case is pending in the courts now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u62	What about the Pecha list? No conclusion has been drawn from the examination carried out. What about the loans of the rich shipowners, which you have deleted? What about the loans and the debts of Mr. Piladakis, which you gave him? What is going on with direct awards of EUR 5 billion? during the pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, please complete. Ask the relevant ministers questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. They are disturbing what I say obviously, but unfortunately yesterday they opened a black page for our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u65	Listen, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, they don't bother what you're saying. Just the 'NOVARTIS' case has been judged by Parliament. He's in justice now. You're out of the question and you've been through time a lot. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u66	I'm not out of the question. The convention in question concerns tax evasion, and I believe that the Greeks' tax evasion is due to a large proportion to the fact that there are unpunished scandals that are revealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u67	For the tax evasion you said I didn't interrupt. I interrupted your other cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u68	That's what happens all the time when we ask these questions. So I will end with a reminder to Greek citizens, with something Abraham Lincoln said: "The vote is stronger than the ball, my fellow citizens. With the bullet you can kill your enemy, but by vote you can kill the future of your children." We demand that elections be held immediately, because all these scandals I mentioned earlier must be answered and they must be answered immediately. The Government of the New Democracy is dangerous. The Government of New Democracy is now persecuting those who reveal the scandals and the Greek people must soon punish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agreement with Singapore, which the government brings to ratification, must be reminded here that it was prepared and signed in May 2019 when SYRIZA was government. This is, of course, a very common parliamentary practice, especially in the field of transnational conventions, with which a government is carrying out a task initiated by the previous government. Because that's exactly what this is about. And this isn't the first time this has happened. Now, whether someone keeps saying this or an institutional memory of the state, but it is nothing but the continuation of the same policy and, of course, a further symbolic confirmation of the strategic political coexistence of urban parties, of the New Democracy, of the SYRIZA and of KINAL at the outset. So this agreement, which the main urban parties support, was prepared, as we have said, by the previous SYRIZA government, on the basis, as the report itself says, of fifty-seven similar international conventions in force, as well as on the basis of a model contract by the well-known, 'poisonous' for labour interests, a toolbox of a carabinat of imperialist organization such as the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Therefore, the text of this convention seeks to eliminate double taxation and avoid tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes, since double taxation again according to the text constitutes an obstacle to international economic relations, in particular, as the text says, to the exchange of goods and services and to the movement of capital. Here, right here, in this phrase, there is also the whole thing about this convention, about the movement of capital and persons. Yes, sir. But the question arises here: Who is this tax convention with far-sighted Singapore? Who is this convention that unites the New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL? The explanatory statement itself answers, saying: As far as Greece is concerned, it concerns the natural and legal persons, the tax residents of Greece who operate or acquire income in Singapore. I don't know too many. In other words, it is about large businesses and their major executives, which have business activities in Singapore, and also about the reverse with enterprises in Singapore in our country. Along with this sincere and cynical assumption, however, there are also several majorities for tax justice, for combating tax evasion. Even if it introduces a stable and fair tax system, the SYRIZA side has announced. Now what kind of tax justice is this further reduction in the tax rates on profits of the large limited companies subject to this convention, that is not going to bother telling us. As for the unilateral invoicing of the fight against tax evasion, you know this is literally a joke in an internationally regulated economic environment with offshore companies and countries that are, among them, Europeans, operating as tax havens of capitalists. This is therefore a typical case of a contract whereby tax facilities are legislated and introduced, with lower rates of taxation for the business groups in our country and Singapore, so as to create that well-known, 'friendly' as you say, an investment environment in combination with always, of course, and with the smashing of workers' labour and wage rights, that is to say, all that are the raw material of capitalist development. It is characteristic and revealing both Article 8 and Article 10 of this Convention. Article 8 sets out the criteria on the basis of which profits from the operation of ships and aircraft in international transport are taxed. In the case of the taxation of profits from the operation of ships, the criterion of the State of registration of the ship, the flag, i.e., which the ship has in accordance with the permanent Greek position, as specified in the bill and continues to ensure that the Greek interests are fully guaranteed by that criterion. You mean the interests of Greek shipowners, do you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA? That's what we're talking about, that's what you mean, so we don't make fun of each other. Here, however, we also see something else, we see the Greek armament fund, apart from the constitutional safeguarding of its own provocative tax exemptions and privileges in our country - in the Constitution it is legalized - to achieve these prerogatives of protecting them even from transnational conventions, such as today. The same logic is seen in Article 10 on the taxation of dividends of shares in public limited companies. This is the tax on dividends that SYRIZA took from 15% to 10% and then the New Democracy Government came to her from 10% to 5%, where she is today. That is to say, once again, a good cooperation on reducing dividend taxation. And, of course, dividends from anonymous companies do not have both the backbone and the bio-poplastics. So this symbolic 5% on the share dividends in our country today is also being set as a limit for the taxation of dividends and for the current contract. And when is this, please? When employees, self-employed, pensioners are taxed with 23%. As for the claim made by the General Accounting Office of the State that this contract should broaden the tax base and the overall return on more revenues to the State budget, despite the lower tax rates, this claim does not correspond to reality. For all these reasons, of course, we are voting against this convention. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Viliardos Vassilis from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as we mentioned in committee, this Convention was signed on 30 May 2019 by the Government - then - SYRIZA, and it is tabled to be voted on today, with the known delay in all conventions. It concerns the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion. Strangely enough, despite the fact that this is a country which is considered a tax haven, with a very friendly environment, as is at least advertised by the companies that establish offshore there, many companies are founding in Singapore offshore. We continued in committee by saying that it has low taxation and an opaque banking system, noting that the technological development it has, of course, Singapore and digitalisation do not involve honest taxation when there are experienced consultants and complex legislation. It is difficult to combat legal evasion, tax evasion, as the big companies call it, will be achieved in a country such as Greece. However, when no lists of Lagard or Borgians, Panama Papers, Paradise Papers and now the Pandora Papers of Cyprus, nor of course the fuel smuggling is most important. After analyzing its political situation, stressing that it appears as a democracy but runs by only one party, we talked about its economy, saying, among other things, that with just five and a half million inhabitants it has almost double the GDP of Greece today, at $340 billion in 2020, when we had $189 billion. But we must remember that when Greece's GDP was at 356 billion dollars in 2008, Singapore was under 200 billion dollars, as we will testify to the enormous catastrophe that we have suffered from the Memorandums - only a blind man does not see it today - under the responsibility of the New Democracy, the PASOK that dares to regain his name because of his debts, and to some extent also SYRIZA, the 'troika', as all three parties are called together. It is now important that Singapore holds the top in the table of international competitiveness in 2020, as in 2019, when Greece owns the fifty-nineth. Competitiveness, of course, of a country from the multinationals - multinationals consider how competitive a country is or does not - means in summary: firstly, that their investments will have significant returns, i.e. large profits. Secondly, that much of these returns, profits to workers through wages or public taxes will not be taken into account. Thirdly, that they will not be faced with annoying - as they say - laws and regulations such as environmental laws. However, the higher the competitiveness index each country finds, the more unfair it is with regard to its ordinary citizens, while the 'tax odours' countries are firmly in the first place. We continued to mention that Singapore is a large transit and shipping centre, while the fleet’s fleet with its own flag numbers about three thousand and eighty-seven ships when the Greek number totals over five and a half thousand, but to a very large extent with a foreign flag. We referred to shipping because this Convention serves shipping companies and there is a reference to it, and the most important thing is the trade in services we have with Singapore due to the migrations from the shipping received by Greece from Singapore and which reached EUR 1 billion in 2020. Finally, we said that in 2019, signed by the contract, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Singapore appointed Mr. Theodoros Sunday of the "K Group" Group and his TV "ANT1" to support the work of the Ambassador of Singapore in Greece. Coincidence? Maybe. I shall refer to the articles now. Articles 1 to 5 concern definitions of the scope and the tax basis. Articles 6 to 20 cover the method of taxation of the various incomes, with Articles 21 and 22, the capital tax, while the rest are procedural. Interesting is the reference to hydrocarbon exploration income in Article 22, where we asked, without getting an answer, if there is an interest in Singapore knowing that the country's state investment portfolio, TEMASE with $215 billion, has a mining company 'DOLPHIN DILLING'. Article 23 is reasonable, but, given the lower taxes in Singapore, consultants will try to make them look lower in Greece. It's easy. While in Article 27, which provides for the exchange of information on tax grounds, given the opacity of the Singapore financial sector, it is completely opaque, the exchange will be rather heterogeneous at the expense of Greece. Finally, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, there will be an impact on the contract, but as usual it is not quantified. It does not quantify the General Accounting Office almost anything. While the General Accounting Office already summarizes the fact that Singapore has lower tax rates. In closing, Singapore is a country that has contacts and offers opportunities, but we do not see how it will benefit Greece from investment or tax. On the contrary, there are risks of lowering our tax revenues, as we have said, so we are sceptical especially with this government and vote'residents'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. The last speaker is Mr George Logiadis from Mera25, with whom we will be linked via Webex. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. I would rather be with you, Mr President, but unfortunately I had a COVID disease, so I have to be here. I would ask you, too, for your tolerance in time, because I cannot easily speak today. The good day since the morning seems, Mr President. And in the morning of the new year, the first draft law brought by the New Democracy Government on Tuesday morning in the Committee on Economic Affairs is the Ministry of Finance to ratify the Convention between Greece and Singapore to eliminate double taxation and avoid tax evasion. As if this is the first priority for the downtrodden Greek people for the new Greek year. People die of pandemic, actually. You decide on the opening or closing of schools if the case is 50% +1 as a private S.A. And you don't hear the infectious. For the focus of other measures, other weightings. Alalum, alalum! The SYRIZA ended it with the S.A., 62% did it 0% then. You're two sides of the same coin. Your current draft law does not concern all those who work for a hundred and eighty days a year exclusively to pay taxes in the state, it does not concern all those whose purchasing power is at the bottom of the Eurozone and cannot live and so Greece records an unprecedented decrease in population that has not been observed in a time of peace, because in 2020 the Greek population has shrinked by fifty thousand four hundred people. It's a black history record of disastrousity, which the government wants to hide by shaking political costs. The draft law does not concern the new generation of microprocessors in taxes and insurance funds from the lowest incomes with debts between EUR 50 and 500. The fight against tax evasion is getting very good. You know very well how it can be done, but you do not even have the opportunity to do so by entrusting the administration of the country to enhanced supervision, as you so elegantly call it, and you do not have the political will to do so by obeying the Memorandum Laws, as is today. Who, then, is this draft law concerned with? Article 6 - Income from real estate, Article 7 - profits from companies, Article 8 - shipping and air transport, Article 9 - related undertakings, Article 10 - dividends, Article 11 - interest, Article 22 - income from hydrocarbons and natural resources. I read from yesterday's "NAUTERVO" 12-1-22: "Europe, USA and oil companies are changing policy in relation to fossil fuels. The increasing pressure worldwide by investors, activists and some governments to deal with the climate crisis force oil colossians to close the buckets of costs for new deposits and thus for gas and oil pipelines. In particular, European companies such as SHELL and BP have set themselves to slowly move away from slow production while investing in renewable energy sources. But you have just voted in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping on the cooperation of Greece - Cyprus - Israel on mining. We in Mera25 have always opposed the mining of hydrocarbons and in bilateral or tripartite agreements we have rightly voted against it, as demonstrated. So quickly, you're out of your mind and you're disdained by the facts. All this today's draft law concerns the very few, the very big ones. You're causing the public a sense of law. It states that the General Accounting Office report of the State is expected to widen the tax base, which will result in a collective return on more revenue in the State budget than the lower rates laid down in the Convention. The wise people tell us that the net of the laws is just to catch the very small fish, the very large ones escape, they have the knowledge and possibilities of avoiding tax evasion mentioned in your draft law. These very large, whom you support, have too many possibilities to tax offshore, offshore, offshore, interconnected companies, tax havens, accounting labyrinths of tax evasion and tax evasion. Are these colossians that you support, with the citizens, with the small businessmen, having them as a new year's gift this year's New Year's Eve, the scoring of widow and disability pensions up to EUR 268? The Single Pensioners’ Network calls it a shameful circular eve of the change of the year. How many thousands of our fellow citizens have been waiting for years to get the pension they are entitled to for which they have paid their contributions? And if they've worked in different branches, then "seek me to eat a triple" that the people say until they get retired. Let's see the complaint from a Finnish citizen who has been living and investing and working in Crete since 2011, who wrote a letter to the Ministry of Labour: “Dear Minister, I contact you because I am ashamed and I am disappointed by the specific practices of your Ministry. Minister, I fear that by the time my pension comes out I will be dead." These are not written in the newspaper of Mera25, but the whole article is in "Kathemerini" on December 5, 2021. Because you say you want foreign investments. The ordinary European citizen, each Finn, will not come, will come those colossians who are on the ground above and outside support. Cough and love, Minister, are not hiding, so the wise people say. And your love for the very few, the very big, of course, is not hidden, because to the very few and the very large, the SYRIZA Minister for Foreign Affairs said hello on May 30, 2019, who signed this Convention with the attached Protocol to the Greek-Sigapurian Business Forum. It mentions the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 12-1-2022, yesterday, that the permanent residents of Singapore number about five hundred persons, most of whom are members of shipping companies of Greek interest that keep offices locally. This is what you support the huge shipping companies, mining and hydrocarbons. As we all know, these companies enjoy over time, from the whole of the Greek governments, special treatment and privileges, but they do not return anything and their prosperousness remains virtually outside Greece. Well, good year, not for everyone but for the few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Loyadis, thank you, too. Happy birthday to you too. We are now entering the circle of parliamentary representatives, those who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, how many Members of Parliament will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u77	Five, Mr. Comrade. Mr Grigoriadis has the floor, which replaces Mrs Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u78	I will not go far, Mr President. You guessed it right. The dear Minister left and I did not have time to ask her, really, have you given 800 million to support culture? And where did they go, guys, that money? And why am I saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u79	Now we have another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u80	It's all right, Mr. President. As a parliamentarian, I am not going to talk much, so I shall say a few things about topicality. Mr. Loyadis said that he spoke just before me. He said wonderfully what he reveals for the government the particular contract that we shall vote on, you will probably vote in a short time. I will only tell the Minister this. If you have given 800 million and you have achieved forty-eight trade unions, that is, everyone - no one is excluded - to be against you, then congratulations, good for you! Look! Pan-Hellenic Vision Federation - Hearing, expresses us all. Panhellenic Federation of Artistic Personnel OTA, Panhellenic Federation of Professionals of Music, Association of Greek Actors - My Association of Greek Theatre Arts, Association of Technical Arts, Association of Greek Artists of Greece, Panhellenic Music Association of Panhellenic Music Association, Association of Musical Law of Serres, Association of Lyrical Champions of Greece, Association of Professionals of Western Greece, Workers of the National Literary Scene, Association of Workers of the National Theatre, etc. It doesn't make any sense, and I won't tire you. It's four and a half pages forty-eight unions. Everyone is missing from the invitation, which one says? That for two years you've done nothing for art workers. I have an answer, Mr President. I know why they haven't done anything. You have done nothing, not you personally, the government you represent, because unfortunately we have the misfortune to be fifty, not more than seventy thousand all artists and workers in art together. It's under two hundred thousand. That's the problem. Because if we were civil servants and we were millions, if we were the people who work in the Security Body and we were millions, if we were who determines who will go up to the government and give self-responsibility, that is, a very large mass of people, be sure that "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", something would have "secret" to us poor ones as well. Because we're few, we're following the fate of a few. But we have a powerful ally. It's the Greek people. I have said so from this step, Mr President. Culture is like water and food. The man can't live without it. And as long as our problem is made public and as much as our fellow people understand, in the city and in other cities, that we will be raccooned in a little while - the rest of us because I am a MP and have saved food for the moment, but I am talking about my other colleagues - and hungry, so much so that the Greek people are mobilized. Be aware that you will pay for your analgesia in culture in the vote of the rest of the Greek people, who sympathizes, assists and supports the arts and people who work in culture. I shall also refer to the "Children's Hospital" of Pentelis, Mr President. Following the publicity that took the issue with its imminent dismantling essentially - which hides behind the conversion of the allegedly large vaccination centre - and the support for the workers from a huge part of society, the head of the Ministry of Health informed the workers yesterday that the hospital will not finally close, but will work 8 to 2 at noon and will have six, of the four that had normally up to recently, vaccination lines. Of course, these two more vaccination lines, which are 30%-35%, will be available without absolutely any intake of personnel to make vaccinations, doctors and nurses. They're just gonna work doggies. So, after this smuggling, Mr President, the workers decided today - yesterday - on 13 January to declare a 24-hour strike, which is currently under way. And of course I'll close with ASAOE. Intensification prevailed yesterday, Wednesday, when police forces and, in particular, ten OPECE police officers and three security officers invaded the university space and arrested six students, who were complaining about the possible covertness of the professor who is accused of paedophiles - to say this in here - and misappropriate money. In the video we have all seen, police officers seem to be arresting six students, who according to the police - to say it all - had attempted to tear down a wall in order - I read from the police announcement - "to set up their own anti-powered station". On the other hand, unfortunately, destiny has escaped impossible. The students reported that the area that they supposedly occupied for their place was already sealed by the dean, so they had no opportunity to understand it in any way. The student party ARENA issued a statement saying: "After the cases of covert children and loan sharks, the dean now puts Greek policemen in the school to arrest students". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] My last word and I will leave you alone, ladies and gentlemen, is this. Previously, I read the letter from representatives of all workers in culture to our Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what he did when he took and read the letter? What do you think he did? He decided not to accept them, decided not to meet any of the forty eight presidents or vice presidents or board. All trade unions, all culture makers in Greece. And to be more precise, in essence with this refusal, he continued his refusal, the stubborn, one would say assailant - with apologies for the expression - refusal to meet them for two consecutive years. I would remind you, in passing, that the first thing Mr Mitsotakis did was to close the theaters. In February 2020, the first thing that closed in Greece was schools and theatres, without any proof that the theatres are infected. The theaters 'payed it'. So Mr Mitsotakis has been going on for two years now not to meet the representatives of the people of culture, and that, in our view, is a government reproach, according to the commonly called shame. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u82	I will speak from here to be more concise and not waste any time. As to the draft law we are debating today, I am first of all beginning with an observation about the criticism we receive from the JRC and the Greek Solution. I really have this question. This criticism is based on the fact that, if we had not made this agreement, would things be better in the field of taxation and tax evasion? Or is it a criticism that we shouldn't have done anything? It is good at some point to make this clear, because we are hearing a criticism of the'management of the system', but until the government of our dreams comes, one must be in the government and handle matters. So in terms of management, this agreement, which was first made in 2019 - PASOK and New Democracy, New Democracy and PASOK did not do so in previous years - improves things or worsens them for our country's tax system? I now come to the essence of the contract. I would like to congratulate George Katrugalo once again on the very good work he has done and the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the then political leadership of the Ministry of Finance for this agreement. He's here, and Katerina Papanatsiou, who was responsible for this at the time. In Article 27, therefore, there is provision, the very correct provision for the exchange of information between the two countries. It is a very good prediction, because on the basis of this procedure one state can inform one another and cooperate in the field of tax evasion, smuggling, anti-corruption and a number of other issues. So that's right. But now take note of the terrible political contradiction. In Greece we had information on the theme of the Lagard list at an informal level and then at official level, we had information about the Borgians list, about the "NOVARTIS" list and other lists. The last two cases were official. And what is the reality of the foreign press today in Greece? Yanna Papadakou and Costas Vaxevanis, who are among the emblematic persons in revealing this information, when then some people forgot the lists in drawers or were whistling indifferently, rather than being candidates at the moment for a prize for the work they did, are accused! And think about what message we send as a country. Those who contributed, who took the lead - and good for them - in this process of investigative journalism are indictees today. The only sure thing is - and it is a clear political message - that Gianna Papadakou and Kostas Vaxevanis are not alone in this struggle, it is the entire Greek society, it is the progressive citizens with them in revealing these phenomena. On the occasion of this bill, I do not want to ask again what I asked the committee and did not receive an answer, because in previous years the two parties of power did not proceed to this convention, but I would like to put new questions raised by the committee so far to the Minister present and, in general, to the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. I understand the stress of the government's ministers. There's a reshape coming. As far as I understand it, a minister has already been given responsibility from other ministries and has come out and announces, for example, what will happen to the Ministry of Finance, while it is the responsibility of another ministry. So there's a reshape coming. There is an anguish to the ministers, an overactivity. I get it. But one answer has to be given. On the subject of VAT, for example, will we have a reduction in VAT? Yes or no? Get this thing cleared up. We understand that two ministers are saying something at a time other Minister on the same channel is saying something else, but that is the worst message to the market and the citizens, because he sends the message that the government cannot agree with it. Also, Minister, in a few days' time the procedure for imposing fines is under way through ADP 100 euros per month for the citizens who have chosen for various reasons - poorly, in my opinion - not to be vaccinated. It's the biggest tax raid ever since 2010. Why did you blame SYRIZA for "taxation policy", etc. I want you to remind me of a tax initiative by SYRIZA 2015 - 2019 that burdened the citizens with 100 euros a month. Please. Because two ministers have already said one thing and another Minister said another thing, make it clear: will the fine of EUR 100 apply per month or be suspended? Clear words, clean words. And a request, get in touch with the government. I understand the problems, we will show understanding, but we also have to deal with economic and pandemic issues. Thank you for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Mr Giannis Vroutzis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I shall begin with wishes. It's my first parliamentary step in the New Year. Have a good and blessed year, a productive year for Parliament, for democracy, for Greece in general. I, Mr Alexiadis, as I take you to Stepma, wonder why so much prudence on an issue that we welcome to begin on SYRIZA. With regard to the specific contract initiated on SYRIZA - and neither has it been criticised by anyone's government - you are coming today and you are flattered for something that is positive and shows the administrative continuity of the state. It's not the first contract. And don't ask yourself why the previous governments didn't do it. Because it was a time-consuming juncture in 2019 that the general economic situation imposed on the country's interests. It has then been done, as has been done, and a total of fifty-seven so far bilateral double tax avoidance conventions have been made. That's how the States work. They have been following up administratively and today, quite rightly, the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance comes and brings the specific law under which we come to build this pact with a country that has truly surprised globally about its economic performance and set the framework and conditions for avoiding double taxation. Let me just one or two responses to issues that have been raised beyond the specific framework of the law, concerning the convention to avoid double taxation in Greece - Singapore. Firstly, criticism of the issue of culture. I had the honour of serving as Minister of Labour. I did not know the issues of culture, I was not a man coming from culture, but as a Minister of Labour at the time, as the Minister of Culture quite rightly said just now, as the Minister of Culture, who was found to be a similar agreement with China here in Parliament, said, that the pandemic did not create the problem, it raised the problem, especially in the field of culture, because it was an unpapered sea. And then we saw - as we all knew, we never talked about it - when it was time to subscribe this world that we didn't know about it. The same was the case with the registered workers in the private sector, who, with the suspension of contracts of employment that we did and the registration of "ERGANI", did not have this world ready to pay him, while the Ministry of Labour and the Government wanted to support him. That is why we started this register for the first time in our country's history and thankfully that it was "ERGANI", this valuable innovative tool, which was the pillar of salvation for the workers and the whole world, which supported the pandemic period, and the recording took place. And so far this world of culture has taken over 107 million. Another thing you say is that we've worked isolately, but you're saying that they didn't get the money, and they wanted more and more to say we didn't do anything. We did what we had to do. Unfortunately, we have seen that the environment was uncharted and now for the first time the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Labour can additionally know the specific environment of the cultural area and whenever it needs to be strengthened in the world. Second, scandals. Both SYRIZA's rapporteur and SYRIZA's parliamentary representative have opened up the issue of scandals, about Borgians, Lagard and the rest. I, address myself to my friend, Mr Alexiades, who has a lot to do with the issue of tax evasion and tax evasion due to an earlier status, will say this. Four and a half years when you were here, SYRIZA colleagues, what did you do for these lists? Can't you find the end of the thread so he can tax the one you said? But, you know, after you've removed from the fund, no one's ever been believed. Four-and-a-half years you have had the opportunity of doing all you today to restore as chewed-up food in the House that it is unfinished today for the government to do so. But you didn't do anything. Thirdly, as regards the question raised for justice, I ask the SYRIZA rapporteur a question, as she has raised questions, which should be answered. Do you think the supreme judicial authority in our country, the Marios Ice, is acting on political orders? First question. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Do you trust, yes or no, in justice? Two questions. Answer these and then we can discuss whatever you want. Not generally, we fly flares in the air. On the issue of avoiding double taxation, I must tell you that, in fact, if we do not do this contract when and when we see that the interests of the country are at stake, double taxation, apart from producing injustice, undermines economic relations and healthy competition, and the exchange of goods and services, and the movement of capital and persons, it actually undermines the economy itself. What are we pursuing? We are seeking, on the basis of this convention, to avoid double taxation with a total of fifty-seven such contracts, firstly, to be able to catch that tax item, which corresponds to the part that has not been taxed in the other State. In short, the target is double. The concept of double taxation should be reflected in cases of two or more States imposing a tax on the same taxpayer for the same income in the same period. What are the objectives? Improving the sound economic climate and economic development, functioning trade in an unintentionally way and having a stable tax environment, which will not create injustices. And the tax authority must manifest itself in income acquired by natural or legal persons within the territory. This is what this particular contract serves. In the articles to which the contract refers, a number of reasons and cases are defined - in the specific articles - through which this purpose is achieved. And we do it with a country that is proven to be an economic giant. The positive effects on our economy and taxation are already visible on the issues that this convention introduces. And I am one of those who are calling for opposition and for all parties to vote for it. It is good, however, that the anti-population side, recognizing the positive effects of the convention on double taxation with Singapore, will vote for it. It's in the right direction. I hope that the other parties with reservations will also do so so so far, because this double-tax convention currently proposed by the Minister, Mr Vesyropoulos, is only in the positive direction of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mrs Constantina Giannakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this bill, the specific ratification of a contract, while pandemic and precision phenomena are afflicting the country, afflicting society, afflicting all Greeks. Today's announcement by ELSTAT to inflation in our country of 5.1% with upward trends in November, Minister, at least breaks down the reassurance record of your government that we are supposedly on the average of the European Union, when even greater increases in the kinds of basic need, in the people's basket, in the household basket and when we expect even greater power accounts to be launched during the month. So I think that today's communication from ELSTAT and the way in which you generally manage the issues, with a reassurance that, unfortunately, we have paid him many times also in the management of the pandemic. So the situation is not at all easy with a double crisis in progress and, even though there are important developments, linked to the growing provocativeness - in fact - of Turkey. So all these developments are worrying, fearful, and there is a social fatigue which we cannot at all overlook. At this very moment, then, ladies and gentlemen, there is the need for a comprehensive planning, a fixed navigation line. The revolts, the different messages from different ministers of your own government on important issues of civil life are exacerbating the situation and creating an even greater confusion, Minister. Let me briefly refer to some of the crucial issues of this period. For the pandemic: we must not rest assured. The pandemic is here. We have an obligation to continue with the vaccination effort, to extend age, but also to professional categories, to compulsory vaccination and not to start again, as is often done by members of your Government, the way forward and back to complying with the measures. We have been on the way, so we need to fortify society, strengthen the ESS, support for hospitals, make a superhuman effort, and try for two years. A factor that can be decisive in increasing cases - and we have put it to you many times - are schools. After all, we will see that in the next few days. The PASOK-Switch Movement wants the schools open. Our position has been clear from the outset. Get away from us the blurred messages. We want them openly, but on safe conditions for the health of their pupils, teachers and families. That is why we have asked for stricter protocols, as is the case in most European countries, where 50% plus 1 is not needed to close a section. It is therefore necessary, as is also necessary to provide for telematics and rotating education, as is the case in all other European countries. In this effort, ladies and gentlemen, we must finally be able to reach agreement. But how can this be done, Minister, when the Change Movement tables proposals and on the government side no one hears? How can this happen when we, as a place, as a KINAL, went ahead in helping to get the vaccination effort into a special campaign and what the representative of the New Democracy found us to say is that we supposedly stole the ideas of the campaign in France? How, then, can we agree? How can this be done at the time when we tabled a specific proposal for tests, some parties - starting from SYRIZA - trying to show up more prologuely, we were criticised that we say about the same thing as the government, while they propose the 'all free', which, of course, is not free, but is paid again by the people through taxation? However, let us make our proposal very clear today, since the 'Omicon' mutation has too much spread, and so diagnostic tests must be multiplied. We have tabled a specific proposal in order to enable our weakest fellow people to be particularly facilitated, saying that public places must be increased and, indeed, with extended hours, where there is free PCR and rapid test checks, so that there is no cost for our fellow citizens who do not have the opportunity, but that people are not troubled in the tails, where there is even greater transmission. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President. Of course, people who have the opportunity to go to private doctors should be able to go, but a maximum price should be imposed for the PCR test at EUR 40. I think, moreover, that the example of Cyprus, where it set up the sums of EUR 50, but the cost of the free market was between EUR 25 and 40, proves in the clearest way that in recent months the government, Minister, did not want to curb speculation. That's the reality. So I imagine that it has happened today - because our President, Nikos Androulakis, has said so many times - through this Chamber the proposal of the Change Movement toward those who have asked well-meaning questions. Some people, anyway, listen, they don't listen, they say the same thing. They seem to be the dynamic and creative presence of KINAL, and that is their problem, not our particular position. At the same time, we have a debt - and I close, Mr President - to see the financial side effects of both the pandemic and the wave of accuracy and energy crisis. There is an ever-increasing situation, which reduces the purchasing value of citizens' incomes and increases the inflationary pressure day by day and the government has adopted at least one passive attitude. Of course, and Babel of the government with the Minister of Economy going out and disprove both the Government representative and the Minister of Development within a few hours does not show any seriousness on your part, no responsibility for the problem of inflation and the burden of consumer and business. What measures do they need, why do we make programme opposition? Immediately there is a need to increase the minimum wage and reduce VAT on basic products. The increase in minimum wage must be made tomorrow, Minister. We must therefore immediately see the reduction of VAT, especially in basic foodstuffs, the reduction of excise duty on fuels, the generous increase in minimum wages and intensive controls on the market. Another remark, which I consider crucial to support for businesses and workers, is that the planning of measures can no longer be carried out over the next month, as you always do at all. Minister, you must understand this: there must be a planning on the part of the state that can have a horizon of several months, especially if we consider that these great increases due to international revaluations are at a time when measures to protect the coronary continue to restrict business to very critical sectors. We therefore need to see this because there are many small and medium-sized enterprises that emit SOS, which are at risk of being crushed. See, for example, the immediate increase in doses to repay the business world’s obligations to the hundred and twenty of the seventy two instalments, which would be a substantial breath. It is something we ask you to consider and ask you to take it seriously. I'm hanging up. I'll need a minute, Mr. President. With regard to today's debate, our rapporteur, Costas Scandalidis, has developed the issue in detail and in detail in the debate in committee, in detail and in full the comments and attitude of our party. It is true that the economic environment has been unstable in Europe and Greece over the last decade, and tax evasion has been a major issue, a very serious issue that we must tackle. A number of measures have been taken by the tax administration with a view to fiscal consolidation. In 2017, the automatic exchange of information shall apply for the first time between States which have signed the Multilateral Agreement of competent authorities for the automatic exchange of information on a bilateral basis. This exchange of information is a basic principle among States in order to avoid tax evasion. For all the reasons that Costas Scandalidis has developed, we will ratify the contract. After all, it should not be forgotten that Singapore in a more general European context and with official data is far from the European Union's most important trading partner with a total bilateral trade of EUR 53.3 billion in 2017 and services transactions of EUR 44 billion in 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u87	Please complete. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u88	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that for all these reasons, and with the concerns put forward by our rapporteur, we will ratify the convention in the hope that all the same debates in the Greek Parliament will be accompanied by essential elements which will make any gaps or failures apparent and which will help to eliminate them for the best possible legalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. The debate will be closed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I want to wish everyone many years and a good year with health. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the double taxation avoidance agreements concluded by our country fall within a regulatory framework which bears the stamp of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. On a transnational level, the double tax avoidance contracts signed and ratified by our country relate to Greek and foreign nationals as well as to what is related to their scope. In this kind of agreement, the Contracting Parties are two. First, the source State, i.e. the State in which the income is created and produced. Secondly, the other State of residence or residence, i.e. the State in which the taxpayer is resident. The aim is for the two States Parties not to impose a tax on the same taxpayer for the same income in the same period of time. The provision of avoidance of double taxation also applies where the tax authorities of more than one Member State include in the taxable amount the same income in the same period, which ends in the hands of different taxpayers. Today, in plenary session of this House, another convention avoiding double taxation is being ratified between Greece and Singapore. As I pointed out in the debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, this convention aims to eliminate double taxation of income or capital and fully covers the interests of our country. Its main points include: First, the full definition of the concept of ‘permanent establishment’ and the registration of the conditions under which a ‘permanent establishment’ is established. In this way, a Contracting State is entitled to tax the income of undertakings in the other Contracting State, but engaged in business in its territory. Secondly, the precise determination of the tax treatment of different categories of income such as real estate, profits of companies, shipping and air transport, associated companies, dividends, interest, rights, benefit from capital, employment income, artists and athletes, pensions, students, other income, government services. Thirdly, the clear wording that income acquired by a Contracting State from immovable property situated in the other Contracting State - due to proprietary, leasing or any other use thereof - can also be taxed in the State in which the real estate is situated. In particular, the concept of real estate is specified and it is laid down that these provisions will also apply to income from real estate. Fourthly, the general principle that each State has a exclusive right to tax the profits of its business, unless that undertaking carries out operations in the other State by means of a permanent establishment. Fifthly, the Greek position on the taxation of profits from the exploitation of ships in international transport must be established by establishing the criterion of the state of registration of the ship. At the same time, for the taxation of the profits of a Contracting State by the operation of aircraft in international transport, it is foreseen that these will be taxed only in that State. Sixth, the provision of a right of reform and further identification of the taxable profits of the undertaking of a Contracting State if it is established that the transactions of that undertaking with a related undertaking of the other Contracting State have not complied with the principle of equal distances. Seventhly, the creation of a framework for the taxation of income from dividends paid by a company in one State to a resident of the other State Party. In practice dividends may be taxed in the beneficiary’s State of residence, since it is not provided for solely as a general rule, neither in the source State nor in the beneficiary’s State of residence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need one or two more minutes, Mr. President. Eighth, the regulatory framework on the taxation of rights, according to which the right to taxation of rights is retained in the State of residence of the proprietor. At the same time, the source State is also granted the right to tax under its domestic legislation, but the tax levied, if the actual beneficiary is resident in the other Contracting State, will not exceed 7.5% of the gross amount of the rights. Ninth, the issue of tax treatment for the benefit of real estate. The right to tax such income is granted to the State in which the property is situated, but at the same time the country of residence of the beneficiary retains the right to tax that income. At the same time, the tax treatment of the benefit resulting from the divestment of a permanent establishment, which an undertaking of a Contracting State retains in the other Contracting State in which a right to taxation is granted to that other State by virtue of the right to taxation of the first Contracting State. The benefit of divestment of Greek flag vessels or aircraft belonging to Greek airlines shall be taxed only in the Contracting State in which the profits of those vessels or aircraft are taxed. In that regard, it must be pointed out that, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of men and women, the principle of equal treatment of men and women in matters of social security must be interpreted as meaning that the principle of equal treatment of men and women in matters of social security must be interpreted as precluding discrimination on grounds of sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex, sex or sex. At the same time, pensions and other similar fees paid to a resident of a Contracting State against a previous dependent employment in the other Contracting State are taxed only in the first State, that of residence. Finally, the double taxation avoidance agreement between Greece and Singapore provides for the exchange of information between the tax authorities of the Contracting States, with a view to the correct determination of the taxable material, the treatment of tax evasion and tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has signed another fifty-seven double taxation conventions. It is a timely and cross-party option, which serves the objective of creating an attractive and stable fiscal framework for strengthening economic activity. Assuming that this objective is common, I believe that the ratification of this contract submitted by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be broadly accepted and supported. Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u91	Minister, thank you, too. A single debate on the principle, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby declared adjourned and they will be voted on separately. We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: 'Creation of the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and capital and the Protocol annexed thereto'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u92	Once the vote has been completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u93	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] Validation of the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the Protocol thereto
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u94	Consequently, the draft law of the Treasury: ‘Undertaking of the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and the Protocol attached thereto’ was accepted by a majority of single majority on the principle of Articles and on the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u96	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-13-S1-commons.u97	With the consent of the House at 13.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 14 January 2022, at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
