ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. 132 MPs registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Mr. Karimansky, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For today, the plenary session will start with two fixed points, as I recall, the Health Act and the VAT Act. I therefore propose that, after the point for the SJC, we fix point eight to set the point for the Gambling Act, which was point eleven so far. [[GERB-SDS Parliamentary Group enters the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, reverse opinion or other proposals in this direction? Mr. Svilensky, would you like a procedure in this regard? All right, fellow Members, I am voting on the proposal made by Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski, which is point 11 of the weekly Programme to become point 8. Vote 206 MPs: 188, against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to item one of the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Importers are Sylvi Kirilov and a group of MPs. Reports have been received from the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Who will present us to the Health Committee Report? Docent Tonev, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov Petrov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 11 May 2022. At its regular meeting on 2 June 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov Petrov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Petar Gribnev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Director of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev, Head of the Security Law Department at the National Insurance Institute Ms. Katya Petrova, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and NGOs. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carried out a verification and found that it complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Decree on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by associate professor Dr. Silvi Kirilov, who informed the MPs that the proposed legislative changes aim to fill the existing legislative gap in the Law on Health and its corresponding ones in the Labour Code and in the Code on Social Security with regard to temporary inability to look after a healthy child. According to § 1, t. 34 of the Additional provisions of the Health Act successful disability is a condition in which the insured person cannot or is prevented from working because of: acute, subacute or aggravated chronic general illness; accident; occupational illness; treatment abroad; sanatorial-cursor treatment; urgent medical examination or examination; quarantine; removal from work on prescription of health authorities; watching a sick or quarantined family member; the lying accompanying a sick family member for medical examination; examination or treatment in the same place or elsewhere, in the country or abroad, pregnancy and childbirth; watching a healthy child returned from a children's institution due to the quarantine in the institution. The legal definition of a children's establishment is laid down in § 1, item 1. 1 of the Additional provision of Ordinance No 2 of 20 January 2021 issued by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which includes nursery, kindergartens, joint childcare establishments and others which are visited by children up to 7 years of age. Prof. Kirilov explained that this definition does not include schools, which means that in the case of quarantine in the school or in the relevant class the healthy child is returned from school, but the parents of children from 6 to 12 years of age in these cases do not have the right to leave for temporary incapacity due to legislative emptiness in the Health Act, respectively in the Labour Code and in the Social Security Code. In this regard, the student until 12 years of age remains unsupervised and cared for, which is a violation of art. 8, para. 8 of the Law on the Protection of the Child and under art. 45 of the same law of the parent, guardian or person taking care of this child is subject to a fine of 1000 BGN. up to 5000 leva. or more severe administrative punishment. In the light of the amendments to the Health Act, the definition of temporary incapacity in § 1, item 1 is proposed. 34 of the Additional Provisions, the words "watching a healthy child returned from a children's institution due to quarantine in the institution's establishment' shall be replaced by "watching a healthy child until the age of 12 years, returned from a children's institution or school due to quarantine of the institution or the school or to a separate group or class in it, or because of the quarantine of the child's child's health care and the corresponding changes to the Labour Code and to the Social Security Code shall be made. In conclusion, Assoc. Prof. Kirilov explained that he had become familiar with the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the National Insurance Institute and between the first and second votes of the Bill will submit a written proposal to provide for the regulatory changes to take effect from 1 January 2023 in order to provide the necessary funds in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the Public Finance Act. In the Committee on Health, on the basis of art. 31, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 73, para. 7 of the Bulgarian Medical Association, Bulgarian Dental Association, Bulgarian Industrial Association, Economic Initiative Union and National Network for Children have received opinions from the Bulgarian Medical Association. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 and 3 of the Council of Health have received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute, as well as written opinions from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. On the basis of art. 73, para. A public discussion was held at the meeting with the participation of representatives of the word, trade union and non-governmental organizations who provided written opinions on the Draft Law amending the Health Act. The Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Economic Initiative Union and the National Network for Children support the proposed regulatory changes. Some of the opinions contain specific proposals that are outside the scope of the bill under consideration. Dr. Petar Grybnev informed the MPs that the Ministry of Health supports the bill in question, as this ensures and guarantees the possibility for parents and other responsible for children up to the age of 12 years to take care of him, in the case of quarantine of the children's establishment or school, thereby allowing no risk to the physical, mental and moral development of the child. Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov explained that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy fully supports the proposed legislative changes without remarks and stressed that they are systematized in accordance with the legislation in force in this area. He added that the Health Act laid down first the issue of a hospital list, in the Labour Code, that persons already issued a hospital list are entitled to leave due to temporary disability and the Social Security Code determines the amount of compensation for that leave due to temporary disability. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the National Insurance Institute states that the proposed entry into force of the law does not correspond to art. 19 of the Public Finance Act, under which the provisions of regulations providing for an increase in expenditure, a reduction in revenue and/or commitments for expenditure/payments, having adopted the annual laws on the state budget, on the budget of state social security and on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, must not be provided for to enter into force earlier than their amendment or their entry into force for the next budgetary year. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Health Commission expressed support for the draft in question and raised specific questions regarding the financial justification and the provision of the necessary means, given the proposed entry into force of the Law of 1 July 2022. It was noted that, between the first and second votes, the texts of some of the proposed provisions should be reviewed in order to avoid gaps or ambiguous interpretation of the regulations. In the light of the observations submitted, the importers of the bill expressed their readiness, if necessary, to submit the relevant proposals for amendment and/or supplement of the proposed provisions in order to achieve the objectives set out in the reasons set out in the Bill to the maximum extent. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Law amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov Petrov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u5	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, who will present the report? Here you are, Mrs. Korcheva, you can present it to us in a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov Petrov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 11 May 2022. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its meeting held on 8 July 2022 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Lazar Lazarov Deputy Minister; by the Ministry of Health Dr. Tsvetoljuba Genkova, Head of Department of Medical Activities. The bill was presented by the MP Sylvi Kirilov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to fill the existing legislative gap in the Health Act and corresponding ones in the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, pursuant to § 1, item 1. 34 of the Health Act "Foreign disability" is a condition in which the insured person cannot or is prevented from working because of: acute, subacute or aggravated chronic general illness; an accident; professional illness; treatment abroad; sanatorial resort treatment; urgent medical examination or examination; quarantine; removal from work on prescription of health authorities; watching a sick or quarantined family member; of lying accompanying a sick family member for medical examination; examination or treatment in the same place or elsewhere in the country or abroad, pregnancy and childbirth; watching a healthy child returned from a children's institution due to the quarantine in the institution. The proposed changes complement the definition of temporary incapacity in the Health Act by making the relevant changes to the Labour Code and to the Social Security Code. It is intended to cover cases where an insured person has to take care of a healthy child until the age of 12 returned from school due to quarantine of the school or in a separate class. A preliminary impact assessment has also been applied to the bill. When it is adopted, additional funds from the state budget and the state social security budget will be needed. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the bill. The Ministry of Health expresses support for the bill. The Ministry of Finance does not support the proposed bill, the changes proposed are primarily a matter of legislative appropriateness, but it should be borne in mind that it leads to additional financial commitments under the state social security budget. The National Insurance Institute shall express principle support for the submitted bill in compliance with the requirements of art. 19 of the Public Finance Act and after providing the necessary funding. According to Actuarial estimates, the additional expenditure from the state social security budget for monetary benefits in the proposed change amounts to 12.8 million. lv. for 2022. The funds are not laid down in the Budget Act. At a meeting held on 30 May 2022, the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation did not achieve unanimous support for the bill. The Bulgarian Medical Union supports the Bill. The Bulgarian Association of Dentists points out that filling the existing legislative gap in the Health Act and its corresponding ones in the Labour Code and in the Social Security Code is timely and appropriate. They also offer specific additions to the Bill. The National Network for Children welcomes the proposed amendments to the Health Act and, respectively, the Labour Code and the Social Security Code. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 13 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Colleagues, who will present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov Petrov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill, which was presented by the MP Sylvi Kirilov. The proposed changes aim to fill an existing legislative gap in the Health Act by supplementing the definition of temporary incapacity in § 1, item 1. 34 of the additional provisions, including the care of a healthy child until the age of 12, returned from a children's establishment or school due to quarantine of the establishment or school, or to a separate group or class in it, or to quarantine of the child. The current definition of temporary incapacity does not include schools, as the legal definition of the children's institution of schools is excluded. Therefore, in the case of quarantine in the school or in the relevant class, the healthy child is returned from school, but the parents of children up to 12 years of age are not entitled to leave due to temporary disability in these cases. Thus, the student until the age of 12 shall remain unsupervised and cared for, which shall be in violation of Article 12. 8, para. 8 of the Child Protection Act, according to which parents, guardians or other persons caring for a child are obliged not to leave children without supervision and care until the age of 12 if this creates a danger to their physical, mental and moral development. In addition, according to art. 45 of the Child Protection Act, the parent, the guardian or the person taking care of the child is subject to a fine of 1000 BGN. up to 5000 leva. or more severe administrative punishment. In conclusion, the proposed amendments to the Health Act, the Labour Code and the Social Security Code remove existing legal gap and contradictions between the provisions of the Bulgarian legislation. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 18 votes for the draft, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Sylvi Kirilov Petrov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to introduce us to the Report of the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! At a regular meeting held on 2 June 2022, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed a bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Silvi Kirilov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022. The meeting was attended by Dr. Svetlova Genkova Head of Department at the Department of Health and Health. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Silvi Kirilov, who pointed out that the objectives of this bill are to fill the existing legislative gap in the Health Act and the corresponding ones in the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, as well as to align the rules of different laws that must correspond to § 1, item 1. 34 of the Health Act "Stame incapacity" in the part of watching a healthy child returned from a children's institution due to quarantine at the institution. The importer clarified that the legal definition of a children's establishment does not include the school as such. At the same time, in the Child Protection Act, parents or other persons caring for a child are obliged not to leave children without supervision and care until the age of 12 if this creates a danger to their development. Due to a legislative gap in the Health Act, which is respectively carried into the Labour Code and the Social Insurance Code when quarantined in the school or in the relevant class, the healthy child returns from school, but the parents of children up to 12 years of age in these cases are not entitled to leave due to temporary disability. This, in turn, leads to non-compliance with the provisions of the Child Protection Act for which a criminal provision and sanctions are provided. With these reasons, importers propose in the Health Act the legal definition of temporary incapacity in § 1, item 1. 34 to be supplemented by the words "watching a healthy child up to the age of 12, returned from a children's institution or school, due to quarantine of the establishment or school, or of a separate group or class in it, or due to the quarantine of the child, making the relevant changes to the Labour Code and to the Social Security Code with the possibility for parents to take temporary incapacity leave and receive the corresponding monetary compensation. The importers propose that the change should enter into force from 1 July 2022, as regards the need to provide the relevant funds for payment of monetary benefits from the DEA for temporary disability when caring for children up to 12 years of age. The Commission is given the opinions of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute, the National Network of Children, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Union of Economic Initiatives and the Bulgarian Association of Dentists. All opinions support the proposed changes without appeal, with the exception of the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and to some extent that of the National Insurance Institute. The arguments for support are mainly the proposed amendments to the Health Act, the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, on the one hand, provide and ensure that parents and other persons responsible for a child up to the age of 12 years are able to take care of him in the case of quarantine of the children's establishment or school, thereby allowing no risk to the child's development and, on the other hand, compliance of the above laws with the provisions of the Child's Protection Act. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Bill with the argument that there are no financial assessments and estimates of additional funds needed, and that the proposed changes will result in spending on the state budget and the budget of the NSI approximately 12 million. lv. until the end of 2022, which are not insured. The discussion was attended by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Petar Kulenski and Dean Petkov. All participants expressed support for the proposed amendments, but stressed that importers should comply with the Public Finance Act, according to which the provisions providing for an increase in expenditure during the year should not be foreseen to enter into force earlier than the following budget year. The importer, in turn, undertakes to submit a proposal between first and second readings to postpone the entry into force of the provision for the following budgetary year. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 12-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Health Act, No 47-254-01-50, submitted by Silvi Kirilov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Colleagues, will there be an opinion on an importer? Professor Kirilov, would you like to introduce us to the Bill? No. I'm opening the discussion. Colleagues, are there any who wish to speak on this bill? Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Associate Professor Kirilov, our parliamentary group will support this bill, as it really concerns a problem which has been very difficult to solve so far and depending on the wishes of the relevant personal doctors. There was some possibility in the law, but it was the subjective factor. What is happening today, however, and what is happening in the country in particular concerning the COVID-19 and the upcoming rising coat of wool? It is strange and for the first time today that we are adopting a Health Act, without here, in this part of the Chamber, to have the Minister of Health present, without voting for any representative of the Ministry of Health, Deputy Minister or someone from the administration who is in the Chamber and, if necessary, to give an opinion on this bill. Can you imagine, we are adopting an amendment to the Health Act without having representatives of the Ministry of Health! Such a miracle has never happened in this room before. I don't know if anyone is on vacation, vacation, vacation and so on, but such a miracle to accept the Health Act without a representative of the Ministry of Health, this room does not remember. Secondly, what was the urgency of this law to be adopted after we in the Health Commission adopted it to act on 1 July 2022, provided that now the importers say that an amendment will be adopted to act on 1 January 2023? Yes, the amendment is necessary because this bill contradicts the Public Finance Act. It is clearly and precisely stated that when the State Budget Act is adopted and adjustments are required in it, imposing payment under adopted new bills, it must be in line with the deadline for the adoption of either the next law or the following budget year. Of course, we, as has gone, will have to make a new update of the state budget, as this government faces new and new risks and every quarter we are making an update of the state budget, so this law can enter into effect earlier. In terms of the new wool. Dear colleagues, strangely, but at the end of December last year, on 23 December, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov presented in the Granite Hall a model plan. This master plan was presented as the best master plan ever invented. This model plan was based on the number of intensive resuscitation beds in the country. What do we see in the media? In the media, we see ambulances running around looking for places for children, and a call from the health minister to find a hospital bed for the child concerned. This is the result of the perfect plan adopted. With regard to general practitioners. What's the situation with general practitioners right now? The number of Kovids is increasing, the sick are increasing. Personal physicians are not allowed to perform any diagnostic activity related to COVID-19. Personal physicians are not allowed to do and to appoint at least antigen tests. As a result, the Ministry of Health wakes up and on July 12th introduces a draft regulation for public discussion. This draft regulation amends the package of health activities financed by the National Health Insurance Fund and adds the possibility for personal physicians to appoint an antigen test study. Notice, the public discussion of this regulation will end on August 11th. According to the forecast of people who are dealing with COVID-19 management, then we will be in the midst of the wool. Now, the Law on Administrative Acts allows this period to be shortened to 14 days. The law even allows such a regulation to be adopted without public consultation when there are force majeure circumstances. What is this management mimicria from the Ministry of Health, which supposedly manages the horse pandemic, and does not allow general practitioners to perform diagnostic activities so that they can stop the spread of COVID-19 and quarantine all those who need isolation or quarantine as contact persons. Regarding the relevant plan we talked about. This plan was announced on 23 December. On 23 December, the Prime Minister said: we set our goals to be as follows: for one month, we will inoculate 300,000. Souls. That's 300,000. Souls will be paid. Some programs were developed to pay 70 leva. bonuses and so on. The result of these major goals was as follows: they were vaccinated for January 27 thousand. Souls.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u13	Professor Angelov, we're a little off topic, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u14	As regards the vaccination plan, this vaccination plan has been categorically failed. Bulgaria is currently giving away vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, related to the rising wool, congratulations on the information campaign, which motivates Bulgarian citizens to be vaccinated. It's missing! It's a failure again. That is why I would like to tell you that this law, now that it will apply from 2023, is not the urgent law in the country. It's not what needs to be done, it's what needs to be done at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health is missing! Thank you very much. Good luck. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u15	And thank you, Professor Angelov. We could be working on a bill right now, Professor. Are there lines? I won't. Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin by saying that our parliamentary group will support the proposed bill. This does not in any case mean that we do not have any comments on the proposed texts, especially on the chosen approach to sign the legislation, which, in our view, is contrary to the Law on Legislative Acts and the Decree on its offer. Because what is currently being proposed is changing the Code of Social Security! An additional provision in the Health Act changes both the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, which, according to the Law on Regulations, is completely absurd. Why am I saying this? Because the Labour Code and the Social Security Code are laws that grant rights! While the Additional provision provides an explanation of the notion of temporary incapacity. What is currently proposed is to supplement the legal definition of temporary inability to work in the Additional provision of the Health Act, § 1, item 1. 34. The reasons of the Bill claim that there is a coliseum between the various laws, which coliseum refers to age. For example, in the Child Protection Act, in art. 2 It is said that each individual until the age of 18 is a child. Next, in the Child Protection Act, in art. 8 It is said that parents are obliged to provide supervision of the behavior of the child until the age of 12. The Family Code states that family functions regarding supervision of a minor are up to the age of 14 years. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is no colosis in legislation, as these ages are defined in terms of the objectives pursued by the relevant texts. So to argue that there's a colosis in terms of age, I don't think it's correct enough. Next, what is currently being proposed is how to sign texts that give the right to leave, respectively monetary compensation. The leave is regulated in the Labour Code and the monetary compensation respectively for temporary incapacity in the Social Security Code. Notice, under current regulations, quarantine is for seven days, and of these seven days the two days are off. For the remaining five days, the first three are paid by the employer. Does anyone realize that? And in the next two days of the remaining five 60% are at the expense of the employer. We claim that we are burdening the National Insurance Institute for six months with an additional 12 million 800 thousand according to conditional assumptions, because it is very difficult to make this account, which means that the National Insurance Institute has calculated the 13 million additional in six months, and what is at the expense of the employer, no one can say how much it is. There's something else we need to keep in mind. In the Rules of Application of the Social Assistance Act, in art. 16b has a text which is not cancelled and which is active: during an emergency epidemic situation, persons who have children returned from school for quarantine are entitled to one-off targeted aid, but this applies only during quarantine. Now, the big question is: whether this bill solves the issue of quarantine in CIVID or all infectious diseases under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act? If this article solves the issue with CIVID, it would be absurd to solve all the hypotheses of all infectious diseases. These are the important things that need to be taken into account in my opinion. Next, ladies and gentlemen, it is not clear why all minors are not covered until the age of 14. Why is the segment selected up to 12 years old? The answer to this question is: because in the Law on Child Protection, in art. 8 It is said that the parent exercises supervisory functions of a child until the age of 12. But it's a measure of protection! This cannot relate to the general context. When it comes to a measure of protection, these 12 years are relevant. But when it comes to quarantine a child up to 14 years old, it is not clear why these 14 years are not covered. Therefore, I think that, although within a short period of time, there may be three days on this bill for proposals between first and second readings, several proposals can be made. The first proposal is for this law to enter into force from January 1st next year or if there is an update, a little earlier I do not know how this should happen. Because that money that the National Insurance Institute is talking about is not in the NSI budget. Next, it is necessary to specify whether the definition of temporary incapacity should be in the Additional provision of the Health Act, or the legal figure of temporary incapacity is determined in the Labour Code. 162? There is talk of temporary incapacity and leave for such incapacity. So with these remarks, I think we can support the Bill at first reading, and between first and second readings we are committed to making the proposals that we have just spoken about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u17	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, it is not easy for a person to present a bill that should be subjected to our expertise. I agree with many of the things you said. However, I will oppose you two points in favour of the importers and especially Professor Kirilov. The first thing you said at the end of your speech was said in the bill itself to enter into force as of 1 January 2023. This was also commented in the Health Commission. I think even you were at the Health Committee meeting at the time. On the second point, which you so very much asked, this question, which does not tolerate any particular comments from a purely medical point of view, I would like to say to you that the Law on the Child, as it is called in the Federal Republic of Germany, determines the age of up to 16 years and not up to 18. So these questions with the child's physiology are questions that are not from the competence of this room. They are very complex, very difficult to move as an age limit. The more important thing is the other. From the point of view of the Child Protection Act, which you are quoting, it is clear to every father, not even to a doctor, and to every mother, that this limit, which the lawmaker has put on for 12 years, and which is used by the importers of the Bill, is the relevant limit which they have assessed both neurophysiologists and psychologists, and pediatricians, that the age to which a child, being under picture and in any other situation, should not be left behind. In other words, it is unnecessary now to start arguing whether we should implant and the age from 12 to 14 years will only burden the Bill financially and thus things will not be resolved in a positive sense. With all your other remarks, I fully agree, but I think they can be easily cleared between first and second readings. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u19	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Docent Kirilov, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, with the Bill we want to give legal opportunity, which is not necessarily 100% to be used. First, we cannot predict what the volume and quantity of the cases affected will be, because there will be a sine-like course of this infection... each subsequent wave will be lower and less clinically manifested, but more virulent. This is one case, but we include.. there are quite different and many other causes, and other diseases that also occur with quarantine. They affect the same age group from 6 to 12 years. So this opportunity stays. Secondly, from this change there is no Bulgarian family that is not affected, regardless of the social status and the public situation. It affects mothers, fathers, grandfathers and so on. That is, we give an opportunity to ease the daily lives of these families. Regarding the practice... whether this law changes codes. First of all, we know that the code is a codified law. Secondly, it is not the first time in the practice of the National Assembly to make such changes. That's what I wanted to add. One more thing. We have followed a certain logic with this action we are saving a procedure for amendments to three laws. I believe that with this legislative technique we are saving considerable time to resolve this problem. In conclusion, there is talk of a demographic crisis here, I am not afraid of this tribune to say that we are in a demographic ka-ta-stro-fa! Every year we reduce between 60 and 70 thousand people, i.e. one city in Bulgaria with a population of 60 - 70 thousand people disappear in one year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u21	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. Docent Tonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, I think that the pre-talking colleagues with lines have cleared the details that you have suggested and which sound quite logical. I use my right to a replica in a slightly wider view and by taking your speech, to say that many of the proposals in this House can always be considered in one direction or another, looking for the perfect section and the perfect law. But I would like to remind you, especially in the dynamics of our social and civil events, with uncertain majority, with uncertain parliament, how much we will work, what we will be able to apply that very often law, although in an imperfect form, but in time accepted and put into our legal peace, is a much better option than cleaning up, clearing up in time until we reach the so-called perfect law in which there is no debate. In this case, we can always comment on the benefit of the worker or, as you said, the first 3 days of the hospital list are for the employer. Going in this direction, there will always be two opinions and this will always remain as an unresolved problem. We continue to support and are importers of this law because we believe that it solves a particular problem. As you mentioned, Assoc. Kirilov, in which every Bulgarian family raising children faced an opportunity to wipe out an injustice for us, and it was that in these two years of a social crisis it was necessary for parents who could not legally leave their children without parental control at home, to go on paid or unpaid leave and this was the only legal form to be right in front of the letter of the law. We support this bill. We had an idea if we could pass two votes in one sitting in the Chamber. Of course, this can only happen if there are no suggestions in the discussion. So we also have this readiness, but it still depends on the MPs who will have their proposals for changes between first and second votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u23	Thank you, Assoc. Tonev. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u24	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the lines. Honourable Professor. Mihailov, I comment on what is written in the Bill. It says: "It has entered into force since July 1st. " The fact that we have commented on it in the Commission, yes, that is so, I do not deny it. But when we look at the Bill at first reading, we comment on what is written. This one, first. Secondly, regarding the discussion about the age of the child, yes, I do remember the time when in children's clinics, children's clinics were accepted until the age of 16, but I know that there is a solution and a more precise proposal from the World Health Organization for these 18 years. So there may actually be comments on this point that are either way or the other. Regarding what Assoc said. Kirilov, regarding legislative practice. I think there may be another more legitimate approach, for example, to go through the Labour Code through the Labour Code, where the legal figure of temporary incapacity is regulated. 162. It says what temporary incapacity is and what kind of general leave is due precisely for temporary incapacity. So to go through an Additional provision now and to change higher regulations, such as the codes, I do not think it is the best approach. And as far as this kind of leave is concerned, I do not think that this leave should be unconditional. Because a parent who can work remotely from home, why should he be allowed such leave? Is there an answer to that question? Of course, the answer is not in the direction of what is recorded in the importer's text. Next, regarding whether this project has any relationship to the demographic crisis, I think this project at least solves the problems of the demographic crisis and disaster, as you called it. Because demographic problems are in every field. It's a horizontal policy, we all know. Regarding what Assoc said. Tonev, we had a preliminary conversation with you regarding what you said, but I want to say that in the current legislation, which, by the way, is flexible. In the Rules of Application of the Social Assistance Act there is the possibility of a single target aid, precisely for this group. So now to come up with new options and to name them as solving the issues of the demographic crisis, that they are the best proposals, I do not think it is the most correct thing, because, again, there is a legal possibility that these people can be compensated in the current legislation in an official way. This flexibility of the Rules allows this to change depending on the specific situations, because, you know, the situation with a horse and with acute contagious diseases, sometimes offers surprises that need to be resolved in a quick order.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u25	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Professor Mihaylov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill that Mr. Kirilov and the other colleagues, as co-authors, have submitted to the National Assembly, of course we do not raise it on a pedestal that this is something fundamental as a change in the Health Act. Therefore, we do not believe that it is any special discussion, regardless of some of the angles that have been put in place, should be made. He's helping families who have children who are underage, and Assoc. Kirilov said it very clearly and this answers the question, which was correctly put in the hall that he is flexible because parents can benefit from and not take advantage of this right. I don't see much point in wasting the time of the hall, and I didn't even intend to make a statement if I didn't suddenly burst into this room some potpuri, which I am obliged, of course, to resonate over them and this is the attempt to rebrand again. I see here already, and that's how you emphasize behavior. I remember there was a MP here who showed up in a protective suit and a mask. Now again we see such accents in a much softer form, of course, but I expect them to agrave themselves in the coming weeks. I would like to share with all of you, because on this issue we will surely have conversations, and rather passionate in quotes in the coming days, that there are very clear criteria, there are very clearly written instructions of the World Health Organization who wants to turn again into a powder keg theme........................... let them read, let them not create an atmosphere of hysteria, let them not curse the Ministry of Health that it has missed this or that regulation, that such miracles are happening in a negative sense, which we simply cannot imagine in the coming days, these are indeed strikes in empty space or as the Bulgarian people say. Let's concentrate here in this House right now on the Bill, and the rest of what will happen in the coming weeks and months, what should be done, how much the Ministry has missed, we will see this very carefully. I have correctly read the program.. it was presented in early January by the Ministry of Health, it was quite well composed, had its accents aimed at target groups, and they coincide with the instructions that the World Health Organization now gives to the elderly, on immunocompromised patients and on their closest surroundings, as well as on those serving in areas with a high index of contact with the population. In closing my speech, I would like to wish: "Good luck! " Of course we can comply with the idea of Assoc. Tonev and if there are no dramatic proposals that someone wants to implement in the Bill within 3 days or as many days as he wants, we can accept it on two readings. It will actually be useful in the current environment. He, Dr. Ademov, is not just targeting a Kovid. This was also commented in the Commission. It is aimed at infectious diseases at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u27	Thank you, Professor. Mikhailov. Hey, guys, any lines? Professor Baltov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihailov, dear colleagues! As you understand, we will support the proposed bill. But what's bothering us, and you're kind of ignoring it right now, and you've turned it around a little bit, is that, in fact, if we're going to have elections, you know what kind of panic was created last year at the beginning of how all district, section election committees and all members of the CEC should be vaccinated with a first, second dose, and suddenly we see that there is no preparation for these things. We are under the impression that adequate measures are not being taken at the moment for what is to come. It is no secret that Omicron BA.5 is already in Bulgaria. You know very well that of the people who are currently ill, there is a hidden incidence that is five or six times more than what is reported every day. We don't mind, but don't think we're saying and making any remarks, not thinking about people. On the contrary, we believe that the Ministry has no adequate measures in what lies ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u29	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Guys, are there any other lines? I won't. You have the floor, Professor. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Baltov, many things are known, but are not for this room to comment on. If you are interested in the specific data, now the WHO data goes to 555 million infected, turning epidemiologically into the iceberg of the epidemiological curve, this suggests that 5 billion have already been infected, that is, almost all of humanity has been in contact with this infection. The second thing that has been said and repeated in this room, when green certificates were waving powerfully around here, is that each subsequent version of this said and Kirilov five minutes ago is in times less toxic and with less than 50 percent mortality, as you know we call a similar phenomenon in individual viral infections. I mean, he's turned, and that's also said, into a banal, standard respiratory infection. That's the truth. Looking at his mortality projects, which are currently quite precisely defined in the world, his mortality is no different from that of the flu virus. That's what I did the year before last. It's not black. No one wanted to read this data then and to comply with them, but a multitude of moods were created that quite derailed the entire environment in the world. Measures shall therefore be taken. You have heard today the Chief Health Inspector that he was already talking about these measures, and that we should take some sensitive measures and be ridiculous in the eyes of the nation, I am somewhat supportive of Professor. Chorbanov is not seen here in the Chamber, he had a similar statement yesterday that I should not say it in this sense, not to seek any conflict with you, should not be rebranded in this very aggressive way. This infection will stay with us, it will continue to live in humanity, but far better known, better manipulative. You can see that a new vaccine is being created from 12 to 15 years old, Pfizer is currently being authorised by the FDA, there are specific medications for the treatment of this infection. So the question does not stand at all with the seriousness with which it was raised before humanity and it solved it 24 months ago. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u31	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Guys, are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Health Act with importers Sylvi Kirilov and a group of MPs. Vote 195 MPs: for 194, against none, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Associate Professor Tonev for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the various options put forward in the discussion for the treatment of this bill, between the first and second votes, I will take advantage of my right as MP to make a proposal to appeal once again to pass this bill in one sitting of the first and second votes, as one reference for which we all agree is that it must change is the date of entry into force of this bill, which Professor Kirilov will propose in the discussion. Of course, you are entitled to other counterproposals and let the House decide. Therefore, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be examined and put to a second vote in one sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u33	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Dr. Ademov, there was some criticism in your speech, but you did not make a request that you would make a proposal. Am I understanding you correctly?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u34	Right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u35	Thank you for your confirmation. Colleagues, back position, do we have? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Assoc. Prof. Tonev to examine the bill at second reading today. They voted 209 MPs: 135, against 71, abstention 3. That's how the offer is accepted. Professor Tonev, are you going to introduce us to the bill? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for this decision. THE LAW OF THE amending the Health Act § 1. In § 1, t. 34 of the additional provisions the words "returned from a children's institution due to quarantine at the institution' shall be replaced by "up to the age of 12, returned from a children's institution or school due to quarantine of the establishment or school, or of a separate group or class in it, or by the quarantine of the child. Final provisions § 2. In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 162, para. 1 words returned from a children's establishment due to quarantine in the establishment or to the child's home shall be replaced by up to the age of 12, returned from a children's establishment or school due to quarantine of the establishment or school, or of a separate group or class thereof, or by the quarantine of the child. § 3. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1, t. The words "healthy child" returned from a children's institution due to quarantine at the establishment or to the child's home shall be replaced by a health child up to the age of 12 years, returned from a children's institution or school due to quarantine of the institution or school, or a group or class thereof, or by a quarantine of the child. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13a, t. The words "healthy child" returned from a children's institution due to quarantine at the establishment or to the child's home shall be replaced by a health child up to the age of 12 years, returned from a children's institution or school due to quarantine of the institution or school, or a group or class thereof, or by a quarantine of the child. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 1 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the care of a healthy child up to the age of 12 years, returned from a children's establishment or school due to quarantine of the establishment or school, or to a separate group or class thereof, or due to the quarantine of the child until the expiry of the quarantine period. § 4. The law shall enter into force from 1 July 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u37	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion. Statements? Prof. Kirilov, then Associate Professor Ivanov. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, I'm recording you, too, mate. [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 80, para. The second sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall make the following editorial proposal: In § 4, the words. "1 July 2022" shall be replaced by "1 January 2023" and "1 July 2022" shall be replaced by "1 January 2023." This editorial proposal I am doing this with regard to written opinions received on the draft by the Ministry of Finance and the National Insurance Institute, which had discussions on almost all the committees under consideration, and I have this opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u39	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. Are there any lines to that statement, though? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u40	What's the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u41	What's the offer? The proposal, colleagues, is in § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u42	The proposal is in § 4 the words.. 1 July 2022..... 1 January
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u43	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. Docent Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u44	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u45	For the procedure Prof. Angelov. Wait, Professor Ivanov, we're listening, Professor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Look, we don't accept a greeting address or anything simple in this room, we accept the Health Act. What I have is the first reading report, which is in the Committee on Health. The report for the second reading of this bill is not available to the Minister, I'm sorry, God forbid you become Minister, Associate Professor Tonev, there is only the Chairman of the Committee on Health, who read it from this platform. Please allow time for the MPs to have a printed report for the second reading of the Health Bill. Otherwise, we do not know what we accept or what proposals and on what basis these proposals are made. Mr. Chairman, we accept the Health Act to repeat it once again! Even though there is no minister here from the Ministry of Health, there is no deputy minister, there is no one, we cannot have a law passed without a report on it either on the site or on emails, anywhere! We just have a first-reading report. Please make it possible to have a rest, prepare the report, give it to move forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u47	Thank you, Professor. However, Assoc. Prof. Tonev read to us the submitted bill as published on the website of the National Assembly [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] , as submitted to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u48	There's no report at second reading. It's never been...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u49	You mean, Professor, you're not familiar with the text of this bill? Because it has been available to all MPs since May.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u50	I mean, when a bill is adopted, a second reading report is drawn up so that we can watch what it says, what proposals are made, how they are made. And I have suggestions that I'm going to make too. We can't pass a law without a second reading report! How else can I put this?! In one look, in the second look...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u51	I get it. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u52	...three days, one day. [[From the BSP for Bulgaria and they want a procedure.]] What's this about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u53	I understand, Professor. I get it. It is not a precedent to adopt a bill and at second reading in one day, colleagues, you know it perfectly well. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, for a statement? Docent Ivanov, for a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u54	I wanted a statement, but now I want a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u55	Okay, for procedure. Prof. Tonev, Professor Mihailov, Associate Professor Ivanov, Hristo Gazhev and Professor Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u56	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u57	You were speaking, Professor Ivanov. Come in for a procedure, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is for you. I am taking this opportunity to inform you that no changes have been made between first and second readings, i.e. the second reading report, for second reading, responds entirely as proposals and paragraphs of the report which has been uploaded to the site since the first viewing in the Committee on Health. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] I can give you my paper copy to meet him, but it will be entirely about the importer you met, preparing for this meeting. [[Noise and lines from GERB SDS.]] A single technical proposal that the House adopted. [[Noise and lines from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u59	Colleagues, open your bill, which is on the website of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] I can't figure out what the problem is! Really!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u60	My procedure is to see the first and second votes, that is, we are now considering not my options and my opinion, but the opinion of the House. However, my procedure is as follows. What you have read in your preparation for this meeting as a factology corresponds entirely to the meaning of a second viewing report, except for a technical change which, meeting the terms of the Public Finance Act, replaces only the date of entry into force so that it does not impose a change in the budgets of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u61	Thank you, Professor Tonev. As I said, Professor Mihailov, then Associate Professor Ivanov and Hristo Gazhev afterwards. [[Relations of the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's all my procedure to you. Let a well-passed dispute regarding a bill that we said does not represent any fundamental change in the Health Act, regardless of the calls from the stands, that the entire Council of Ministers should be here when this detailed bill is adopted. There have been dozens of times when on two readings on the same day we pass a bill made with one editorial note. The one who's surprised he didn't see it being unprinted. It's printed for first reading. It's unprinted, no changes. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Now let's search under the ox, please, Mr. Chairman! You're in session, let's calm the passions down a little bit. Now more will come after me and Professor Baltov has raised his hand and who else. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And we're gonna go back into that stream yesterday, blaming each other for who knows how much legislation. There is no difference, there is a technical amendment, and from that we are now starting to make a scandal in order to burden the entire agenda that follows us. After that, we still have too many points. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u63	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. You're absolutely right. Docent Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wasn't going to take any attitude, but in the first vote, if you've all carefully met the Report, it appears that it had to come into force since July. Here, however, none of the negotiators asked a basic question: when a bill enters the middle of the year how and in what way is it secured financially? Since so far no one, so far [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you please, Professor Mihailov, with the greatest respect, I did not call you, so let's respect each other! I want to continue my speech. This bill, which we are currently examining, did not have any sound financial framework. None of the pre-speakers asked a basic question. When a bill enters in the middle of the year how and how is it secured financially? And since so far no one has... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov.]] If you please, Professor Mihailov, with the utmost respect, I did not call you, so let's respect each other. I want to continue my speech. So the bill that we are currently looking at did not have any legitimate financial framework. No one here has raised this issue, and suddenly we are adopting the Bill and making editorial change................................................................................................. When this bill is written, it is not thought about the financial framework, i.e. the most important. That's the most important thing! And at some point we accept the Bill as a philosophy at first reading, because at first reading a law is adopted by philosophy. We say okay, we passed the law, but here from this tribune, Mr. Chairman, there were considerations and suggestions. After the adoption the esteemed associate Tonev comes out and says: we have a change, we want to change the date of entry, because it is not thought about the financial provision. So, Mr. President, I appeal to you if we would like to adopt in a sitting of two readings this bill, please follow the procedures required by our Rules, which we have adopted here all. That is, either an option proposed by my colleague to give a break, to write, to make the report concerned, or to give the minimum period of three days. Once the necessary committee is made, then a report should be prepared and this report entered into the Chamber. Otherwise, when we have such debates, Mr. Chairman, we have no agreement. Normally I agree with you that we have adopted bills in one sitting of two readings, but when we have full unanimity, there are no proposals, there are not even editorial amendments. So I ask you, let us follow the Rules so that a proposal such as philosophy can be made and adopted in the appropriate way with the relevant financial framework. I would ask a question: where and in what way did the Finance Ministry give an opinion on this issue? Do we have an opinion? With what money will it be secured? Because, again, all this is wonderful, but, as you know, for example, parents who stay home in one way or another should receive the corresponding reward. Dr. Ademov very accurately expressed how and how this could happen. Thank you and I think that in order to keep the good tone, Mr President, I think that we should not create tensions, and I suggest that the bill goes as it is in order to reduce, for example, the time to consider the minimum period and therefore everything should be as it should be, in order to have a consensus, a understanding and there is no need to create tensions, conflicts, lines and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u65	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Mr. Svilenski for a line. Here you go. Mr. Lachowski, did this seem like a procedure to you? That was a statement and there will be lines to that statement accordingly. [[Noise and lines.]] I had to take your word away, Professor Ivanov, if it was a procedure. Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov! It was a statement, and that's how you started it: in my speech now, fellow Members, I'm going to tell you something. I think that this statement should have been made at first reading. We're already in a second-reading procedure, accepted... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, yeah. Adopted procedural voting for viewing the Law at second reading in one sitting, that is, it is absolutely pointless what you proposed at this time, if you had done it half an hour ago, it would have been resonant. The law was passed 216 votes and 1 against at first reading. Two hundred and sixteen votes. If you remove the bills in the 30-year history of the National Assembly, there may be 10 or 20 such ones adopted by such a majority. That is, the will of the MPs is clear, the remark made, I think, by Mr. Ademov, has been reported and there is absolutely no reason, unless you want to waste the time of the National Assembly with breaks, writing new reports. The report is the same and 16 times to rewrite it the Health Commission, it will be the same, it will not be different because the National Assembly adopted 216 votes for this report and not different. So if someone hasn't figured out what this is about, please get acquainted with the Report at first reading, it will be one and, secondly, it will be one on third and fourth if necessary. It will not be changed, and I propose that we really move on to a discussion of the Bill if there are proposals, that is, some speeches, if not, to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Associate Professor Sylvi Kirilov for the second line. Mr. Gajev, are you asking for a line or for your procedure? Okay. Professor Baltov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Associate Professor Ivanov! I'd like to bring in some details. First of all, the verb that is not thoughtful is thoughtful, and quite. Not only have we taken other actions, such as consulting the Social Ministry Bill, with the NSI, with the Ministry of Finance, from which we received an opinion on a figure of 12.8 million, which I said in my exposition that I had reservations about this figure, why? Firstly, because this is a legal opportunity that does not necessarily have to be used by families. Here were given examples of work from home, others have other opportunities, but we give this legal opportunity to many of the Bulgarian families to take advantage, to have peace and security at home in such a situation that they have the opportunity to look at the child and receive financial resources as compensation for temporary disability. So this is my clarification that it is not only thoughtful, but consultations have also been held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u69	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. For the third line, Professor Baltov. You have the floor, Professor, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is that in fact what Assoc.Professor Sylvi Kirilov proposed to enter into force from 1 January 2023, I personally have a proposal and I think that it is much more appropriate for this to enter into force from 15 September, because that is when the school year begins. Since we've foreseen 12.5 million since July 1st, why can't this come into force, for example, since September 15th? What is the logic of leaving it for January 1st, after starting the school year from September 15th, and we know that there is an exact wave coming? That is why we say that at least one three-day period had to be made to give, to take these proposals, to discuss them in the Commission and then come up with a common opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u71	Professor, do you make such an offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u72	Yeah, I do. Instead of being from the first year of the new school year.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u73	I'll put it to the vote. Docent Ivanov, you have the floor for the doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thanks for the lines you gave me. Mr. Svilensky, I say again that the philosophy of the Law, as you can see, has been adopted absolutely, and I think we agree here, but you yourself have quoted my proposals, and that is why I have come out of this tribune with a procedure you have quoted me and my two proposals. So one was about preparing a report, and the second was about giving a minimum period of three days. I appeal to you: this was a procedure and you yourself quoted me as saying that I have made proposals. This is for you, Mr. Svilensky. To my colleague, Associate Professor Sylvi Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov, you explained perfectly, but about the consultations you have conducted on your bill, I would like to say that they are in no way reflected and were not reflected in the update of the budget for this year. If you really thought, if you wanted to enter from the date, remember that there have not been 10 days since we updated the budget until the end of the year, that is, you see that when you hurry for a bill, some things are missed. I therefore appeal to you once again that, indeed, when we adopt a bill, it must also be financially padded, because only one bill, which is well-sound in society without financial argumentation and without coverage, has no value. And as for the line that my esteemed Professor Baltov made, I believe there is a largely resonant. Professor Baltov, you also cannot answer here that, for example, if this proposal enters into force on September 15th, how it will actually be secured again. I think we're all here for this good bill, but it's not exactly the financial framework that has no coverage. Here the only move I am improvising right now is that if money is found here, there is a social policy specialist Dr. Ademov, who would find some form of funding from the Social Ministry to finance this programme, but this, again I say, is an improvisation that is not embedded in the budget and the financial framework. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u75	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. For the procedure Desislava Atanasova and after her Hristo Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure relates to the proposals that have just been made by colleagues from my parliamentary group. I would like to draw attention to the texts in the Rules of Procedure on the legislative process. Yes, the National Assembly may decide that a bill should be examined in two readings in the same session and this procedure has been repeatedly used in the context of a discussion of various laws, mainly ratifications. The National Assembly, when discussing a bill relating to amendment of codes, amends the Code of Social Security and the Code of Labour, which are higher ranking regulations than the Law. You know that there is also a requirement to obtain opinions from the Trilateral Council. As far as I have seen, such an opinion has also been delivered in its conclusion, the Trilateral Council claims that this bill has not received unambiguous support from the social partners. This should not be passed lightly, moreover, that different editorial changes are being made at the moment, and within the time limit I hear that my colleagues will also propose editorial changes in the age of minors, i.e. the parents of minors who can benefit from such an opportunity. And although this law is not financially insured and due to the fact of the last sentence of your draft law, the reason is that the law is proposed to enter into force given the need to secure the funds in the forthcoming budget update of the State and, accordingly, the DVO. This update did not provide funds for this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. It's a statement of substance now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u78	I'm doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u79	Yes, I understand, Mrs. Atanasova, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u80	My procedure is: led by the understanding that the Rules may be violated, Mr. Ivanov, and subject to a third vote in this Chamber numerous texts or numerous proposals at first vote, I suggest you reconsider the approach and give at least a minimum period to discuss this law, even more so that it enters into force from 1 January. In other words, nothing requires that we have such disputes for the next two or three hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u81	I understand, Mrs. Atanasova. Thank you for this procedure. Mr. Hristo Gazhev also for procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u82	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President, we have come this far for the simple reason that you should not have put to the vote the opportunity to consider the point and the second vote in this sitting, especially when there have been several speeches that changes will be made to the texts. Including the first statement already in the second vote was to correct the texts. The rule has always been that when something is put on two votes or a bill, basically for ratifications, it is that there are no amendments to the texts, not to make an editorial, even here I will dwell on what editorial amendments are. Editorial amendments or legal and technical amendments that are allowed to be made in the Chamber without having passed through the Commission are mainly for texts. Now, six months delaying the entry into force of a law is not an editorial change, it is a fundamental change. Yeah, because that means you say yes, we'll give money, but we'll give it next year, or from Change you promise you'll buy a bike, but another time, because it stays for next year. What editorial change is delaying a bill by six months?! This is not editorial, this is fundamental, and as you can see, the debate is already going on this. You shouldn't have let that happen at all. That is, either no editorial changes should be adopted, that is, the text being voted on as tabled paragraph under paragraph and the deadline of 1 July should be maintained, or you should at least return it to the Commission in order to pass the proposals, because by this logic, if you accept a six-month extension for an editorial proposal, then I can make an editorial proposal to replace the figure with It is still an editorial proposal, but in this way the philosophy of the Law is completely changed, but in your logic it is also an editorial proposal. So, Mr. Chairman, either return the bill, or announce a break so that some Health Commission can pass it and make proposals in the right order. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , or will be raining at the moment such strange proposals that will amend the Law in the form of editorials, and will become an unnecessary debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Dear colleagues, I take my two minutes in response to these several procedures that have already been done. Colleagues from GERB-SDS, you know perfectly well that we are not breaking the Rules at the moment. The only thing that is happening is wasting the National Assembly's time with unnecessary procedures. [[Noise and lines.]] On the contrary, that's exactly what's happening. Why? Because the only, any potential request for editorial proposals was made by Dr. Ademov. He explicitly confirmed that he would not do such that he did not want and that his statement was not in that sense. I asked him specifically and he confirmed. It's on the record. Once there are no requests to make changes between first and second readings, look at the stenogram. [[noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u84	How do we look at her?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u85	None of the speakers have now made a proposal at first reading. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, it is. No. It was put to the vote, which is why the House decided to go on two readings. From now on, we are already on the second vote and editorial proposals are admissible. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gajev, when we were changing millions on the budget, even billions not to say, were the editorial proposals still not admissible? [[Noise. Replies from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] They weren't allowed again?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Without what? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Obviously, yes, I don't need to go into those explanations. Now for the procedure Lachezar Ivanov and then you, Professor Mihailov, for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u86	I went first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u87	I just gave you the floor. Alexander Ivanov, I apologize, Mr. Ivanov. Aleksandar Ivanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure, Mr. Chairman, is for you. Even in the explanation now that you have given to your colleagues who have given you a procedure in the manner of conduct, you are confused in my opinion. An editorial amendment cannot really affect the entry into force of the period and its effect, i.e. its entry into force. Indeed, Mr. Kirilov, as we understand, makes an editorial proposal, but it is essentially not editorial, it is serious about the entry into force of this bill. So even the request itself that two readings are being viewed, which you have allowed to vote in this House, was wrong of you. If we continue this argument, it may take longer. We are also telling you the proposals made at first reading, there were colleagues on both sides of the House who said they would make proposals between first and second readings. We could have made a shorter deadline. I think that this House would have united around this for three days next week this bill would have been passed. Colleague Gazhev even said that one such change may be if you do from the stands from 12 to 18 years old, I, if I do so for the children to be 14 years old, that is to say for all minors, this is still considered to be an editorial change, and it is not. Moreover, Mr President, between first and second readings, if there are proposals, including editorial ones, as you say, but we obviously have differences on this subject, we do not believe that the entry into force is as minor as an editorial amendment, but is a serious amendment to the Law. I think there are no colleagues from the Ministry of Health or the Social Ministry, and this bill concerns both laws. I propose that you, as the host of the meeting, allow this House to adopt a deadline between first and second readings, for three days of proposals, I think we will end this debate and continue on the work of the National Assembly. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And you're going into an explanation that we saw you contradicting yourself. I will allow myself to make you a remark, additionally in the State Budget Act, such proposals then you remember that the State Budget Act had both first and second reading, with the corresponding reports and you cannot refer to the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There is no way to cancel the decision already adopted by the Chamber. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the beginning of my speech, I will remind everyone that we are in a second reading procedure. That was already voted on. Here the silent requests to make a third vote cannot be, naturally, admitted, and this is known by the one who proposed them here just now. Let's talk about the fundamentality of editorial change we can do as much as we want. One can interpret a phenomenon as one wishes. The question is, what's the point of all that we're doing right now? Since the point is beginning to be lost, I have a procedure at the moment, I ask for a vote to end the discussions and move on to the vote. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u91	Thank you, Professor. Is there a reverse opinion? Who's gonna express it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u92	That was a statement. [[Noise and lines. People's representative Kostadin Angelov is going to the stands.]] Professor, are you in for a reverse position? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u93	That was a statement. You took the procedure from me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u94	Colleagues, indeed, yes, that was in the form of speech. There should be lines. Are there any lines? Docent Ivanov, come in for a line. You're absolutely right, we have to go through the lines first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to you, you wrote a statement earlier when I did the procedure. I accepted that thing. Now here was written Professor Mikhailov's statement and the procedure immediately... You can't do that. I suggest we just follow the rules, please. Please, now that we have here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u96	Here you are, for a line, Professor Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u97	...customer procedure, speech and accordingly we follow the Rules. Dear Mr. Mihailov, I am making this line to you with a very short question. I ask: what will change... but I want you to tell me exactly what will change if after three days this editorial change is adopted, as you say... as well as the proposal of my colleagues, for example, the age to be 12 years old, had one proposal and 14 years. I ask what will change when the Law will enter into force from 1 January 2023? I'm asking you very much to answer that question. And something else, I ask: the budget because you claim and want to enter from 2023, I, for example, of the committee to be held, will I ask the Ministry of Finance, what money will be allocated to Budget 2023? What is changing and I cannot understand why tension is being created for a bill that will enter into force next year. And here we are having some huge debates... How can I say, everything was going peacefully, as it should be, so to speak, dialogueally and at some point, this conflict is happening here. The law you want to enter from 2023. Please answer me this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u98	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Professor Mikhailov, you're a respected doctor from me. I think that in the philosophy of this law, which we are debating today, it has been very clear that there is some problem that it will pass at second reading. You can see that there are proposals in this House between first and second readings, which are fundamental. Suggestions that change the philosophy of the Law. This virus is not an ordinary flu, as some claimed during the heat of this coven pandemic. 40,000 people died from this virus. Children are not protected and are sick in their own special way. Adult people who have changed their character after the virus has been infected with psychological problems. We cannot take away the possibility of children up to 12 years of age, I would say 14 years of yes, this is my proposal between first and second readings. Why do we not allow children up to 14 years of age to receive this protection from the state, and we must in one reading, in one day, beat this law? There are a lot more important laws that we need to debate, were they 22, 27, I don't remember anymore. Why should a law that will enter into force from 1 August, from 15 September, say someone, from 1 January 2023, on one day we will end this debate? Perhaps as a leading specialist in children's morbidity, you should give clarity in the Chamber, whether we should today in this way beat the Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u100	Thank you, Mr. Subev. If you have an editorial proposal, please present it to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u101	I'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u102	Eventually. Any other lines? Hristo Gajev for line two. Is there gonna be a third one, guys? [[Reply: it's three!]] Three, okay. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Professor! Okay, at first reading, we supported all of us, a bill that would help parents if, God forbid, there was a crisis again and the closure of schools and kindergartens. All good, but you're actually at the moment of second reading, so by the way, in the gym, you're offering this thing to drop out. In other words, this bill is being null and voided by all of his watching at second reading at the moment. Why? Because you are suggesting that this thing should happen from January 1, 2023. Whether it will be 2023, 2024, 2025, may rain the following similar editorials. But then, if, God forbid, there's a fall crisis now, I'm not an epidemiology specialist and I can't say, but hopefully I won't. If it turns out there is, what do we do if they have to close again? What if this law has to be fulfilled again and thus be able to compensate for the parents? Well, they can't, because the law won't stand. And that won't happen until January 1st. So the problem at the moment is that a bill, which is generally good, has become meaningless, and it has become meaningless by its importers during this editorial second reading and thus you will be able to say: "Yes, we have proposed measures, but there are no real measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u104	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. For the doppelganger, Professor Mihailov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my speech, which is not contrary to the Rules, to draw attention to all my fellow Members, I would ask you to give me the opportunity to take advantage of my right to a procedure at the end of my speech and repeat this procedure. And now, regarding my last replicator, Mr. Gajev, if you're listening to me right now. Dr. Ademov very accurately replied that there is another option in the Code to compensate the families of children who are quarantined, and it can be used. So this flexibility between the Code and the amendments to the Bill give a more fully-fledged "legal" to the possibility of compensation, but it is not absent at the moment. So, suffering until the New Year, that there is only one option, we will make full use of it and enter the New Year. And this bill was proposed before the budget was updated, consulted with the Ministry of Finance, it answered on this issue and therefore, but it cannot be changed after reading at first reading, it cannot be changed. It is now changing editorially, during the debates in the Chamber and this is quite acceptable. Finishing up so we don't have to go in anymore because we've lost almost an hour at the esteemed people's representation, I repeat my procedure, for which I have the right to terminate the speeches and move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u106	Yes, Professor, your procedure has been recorded. I'll put her to the vote. For a reverse opinion. "Professor Angelov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Mihailov, I do reverse procedure. As I told you at the outset, we do not accept a greeting address or any type of decision of the National Assembly, which does not really matter that much. We're adopting the Health Act. We voted against the end of the debate because we have very many proposals that we want to make between first and second readings. We do not suppose that the National Assembly can resolve a problem with such a light hand within a day, as we have extremely many civil society organisations that have contacted us, we have stated people for speech who are from our parliamentary group. I ask that the debate not be terminated so that we can formally make our proposals related to the request of the Bulgarian citizens and satisfy the desire of the civil society organizations that have contacted us about raising the children in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u108	Thank you, Professor Angelov. I put to the vote Professor Mihailov's procedure to end the debate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u109	What paragraph are we calling off the debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u110	Everyone, Dr. Ademov, because all of the texts of the Bill were read, you know it perfectly well, and a general discussion was opened. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Vote 215 MPs: for 123, against 92, there is no abstention. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 217 MPs: for 123, against 93, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, we're moving on to... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] For procedure? Colleagues, we have a vote to end the debate, so we are putting an end to the debate right now and we are going to move on to the vote. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Mr. Nenkov for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Against any good practice, you put to the vote to look at two readings of this bill. Let's assume the gym decided it that way. We have three requests from our fellow Members who are made to speak precisely on the occasion of the second vote on the bill. It is a practice in the National Assembly to give the floor to those who have declared participation. You're driving it absolutely through the millet. Leave her the Rules, leave her everything. However, there is some parliamentary tradition, at least keep her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Dr. Ademov for procedure. Here you go. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is the way it's run. What happened just now, we ended the discussion. What's the paragraph? In this bill at second reading there are four paragraphs plus the title of the Bill. By which paragraph, can you tell me, we've ended the discussion? How will the vote take place? Is there going to be an anbloc or paragraph by paragraph? All these questions are not clear, and you, as President, must give clarity on what we are doing right now. We're closing the discussion, but there are four paragraphs. What's the paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u114	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. All texts of the Bill were read, and a general discussion was opened, and this joint discussion was terminated. Accordingly, after that, we will... [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. A line from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Are you here for procedure, Mr. Gajev? Here you go. [[Heckling]] Yes, there is, we'll put them to the vote separately. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Under the Rules of Procedure, since we are ultimately looking at the draft of two readings and there is no way to submit the proposals, as per the order of the Committees or written, at least the people who made and stated editorial proposals, Mr. Kirilov has already made a statement with his own, our parliamentary group has made two such proposals, at least the people who said they would do, to give them the opportunity to justify them, as is the rule of law. Because under the Rules of Procedure, MPs who have made proposals under the Bill have the right to justify their proposals for five minutes of speech. It's an inalienable right, as you well know. Since they had no way to do it in the established order.. through written proposals and to protect them in the Commission, at least in the House to have the possibility of the editorial proposals being justified so that a debate could ultimately be conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u116	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Valchev for procedure, come in. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, please. [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadayi, please. Here you are, Mr. Valchev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You said we were wasting time, but we would have wasted far less time if we had given three days between first and second reading and given us the opportunity to make technical proposals. We've been denied the right to speak. I've had one declared. I also have an editorial note on the bill. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the term "child institutions" is an anachronism that does not exist, causing problems in the implementation of a number of regulatory regulations. I was going to make such an offer. I was counting on Mr. Ademov's words to give the minimum period between first and second readings. I draw your attention to the fact that in the Health Act, in the Preschool and School Education Act there is a term for children's cribs and children's gardens, but there are no children's institutions. This is an anachronism that has remained only in the Social Security Code. We could have used the opportunity to fix it, even more so that we postponed the implementation of the Bill from January 1st. My personal opinion is that the Bill should enter immediately, because if you ask the National Insurance Institute, any authorising officer will tell you that there are no such additional funds in his budget, but my opinion is that reserves can be found. [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "This is a statement. "]] Why now? Professor Baltov proposed from September 15th, which also makes sense, but we still have school time in kindergartens, nursery and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First of all, I put the name of the Bill to the vote as it was read by Associate Professor Tonev. They voted 207 MPs: 142, against 38, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Mr. Manev, come in for an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against and I will probably vote on the other votes against two things. First, if you had left this bill to discuss it properly between two readings, two major problems would have been solved. The first one, what do we do in this period, which you have now postponed with an editorial amendment? Although this editorial amendment, first of all, costs a few million and because of several million children will not be able to take advantage of all the things we are voting on them now, but will it happen after 1 January was it, when, eventually? The second question, which is not insignificant at all, I know which law you took the 12 years from. But if there were a possibility between first and second readings to justify why it should be 14 years and not 12, it would become clear that some children of 12 years and 6 months would not be able to benefit from it. I want some of you doctors, psychologists who are in this room to come out and explain to me simply and clearly what the difference is in psychology, in being able to stand alone, in the psychological state, in growing up, if you will, in the healthy difference between a child of 12 years and 12 years and a month or six. What's the difference, and why is that? That is why I voted against, colleagues, and I will most likely continue to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u120	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Docent Ivanov, come in for a negative vote. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue The Change........................................]] Docent Ivanov, you had a speech. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Colleagues, we are going to vote on editorial proposals. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u121	I didn't have one by the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u122	As I said, there was a joint discussion, associate professor Ivanov. Accordingly, you have no right to explain your negative vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by Krasimir Sabev for editing in § 1, § 2, § 3, in which the words..12 years of age....are replaced by.14 years of age...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 215 MPs: 90 against 100, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. [[Replys: "Prevoting. "]] We are revoting, colleagues, the proposal made by Mr. Krasimir Subev. Vote 217 MPs: 91 against 101, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the proposal of Associate Professor Kirilov in § 4 the words.. 1 July 2022.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please, voting mode. Vote 218 MPs: 137, against 60, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. To explain the negative vote Mr. Gazhev and then Mr. Dilov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u123	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I voted against the date 1 January 2023 for the simple reason that this makes the entire Law that we are currently adopting meaningless. Postponement by six months, whether or not there is a financial justification, is another issue, as it turns out that at all, and at the moment there is still no financial justification for whether it will enter now. In this way, you are setting a bomb for the next government, for the next finance minister, who will be on 1 January 2023, to try to find the funds that obviously the current finance minister has not provided to ensure this parliament's decision. Meanwhile, in the next six months, it turns out that the parents will not be able to benefit from this law, and if they enjoy what Mr. Ademov said, then the whole Law becomes meaningless. This whole exercise is meaningless, which you have imported, and it is just a PR in your attempt to show that you are doing some measures to deal with the conflict and possibly a subsequent wave. In the meantime, briefings are also going to the Council of Ministers on the subject, so obviously the preparations at the moment are zero. I voted against this proposal because, on the other hand, we have made our proposal, which is for September 15th, that is, with the beginning of the school year or even when children return to kindergartens and would be much more logical. Now I hope you'll put it to the vote anyway, even though this is adopted for January 1st, and here you'll have a collision if both are accepted. Therefore, at least in my opinion, you should have put this to the vote first in September 15th, if it is not accepted, then put it on January 1st, but unfortunately, you did not do so. I hope, however, a little bit of reason in this room and to make the right decision for September 15th so that we can possibly secure parents from the beginning of the school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Dilov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, honourable Members, I voted against this proposal for several reasons. I'll go with two of them. One is that it is based on the famous principle of public communication, that the communicator is the message very often. The way the entire debate under this law took place, the way you led the Assembly, largely compromised the good intentions of its importers, and we have witnessed it all. An unnecessary haste, an unnecessary measure of the majority here, which ultimately, as you can see, led to nothing good. That's my first reason. My second reason. I didn't hear anyone declare a conflict of interest, so I'm guessing there's people in the gym with kids up to 12 years old. Maybe it was the right thing to do. However, I hope to hear from those in charge of explaining on what grounds did you harm the parents of children between 12 and 14 years of age. Why? Why did you do that? In what principle? All of this could be clarified if we had a normal time to discuss this bill for half an hour if you had given it to us, we would have clarified these situations. Think of it as a line in the manner of conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u126	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Mr. Nikolov, come in for an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u127	Mr. President, honourable Members, I voted against this text for one main reason, the way in which the debate was held, the way in which the sitting was conducted. It is high time we understood that the traditions in a parliament, the respect between political opponents, the way we go through crisis situations, through complex situations, show the political culture of a nation. We are standing in a room where there have been much more serious debates, much more serious problems, wars have been fought, they have been through coups, everything and all this time a certain tradition has been built. I cannot understand a law which had to pass with full unanimity why we had to witness all these circuses. There were colleagues from my parliamentary group who were experts in the topic who had made proposals that just wanted to protect their proposals from the stands. There would have been no problem if they had been given the floor according to the practice that had been imposed in Parliament for decades to protect these and to have heard them and, accordingly, Members of the National Assembly would have made an informed choice on how to vote. It is absurd to stop a debate, given that statements by MPs have been requested. And another thing that made me vote negative. Mr. Chairman, you have bad meetings. You allow yourself to make speeches from where you sit, although by the rules you must come down, stand on this stand and speak, and do it all the time. It annoys everyone, it sharpens the relationship in the room. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u128	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. For procedure? Okay. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u129	Mr. Chairman, the procedure is entirely for you. You may be surprised that I take the floor so often today, but I address you most benevolently, and I would like to express my disappointment with the way you have led this bill, which could have been unifying. This bill, as you have all seen, of all political parties, supported the first vote. I appeal to you that in such a consensus, I would say, a bill, you have trampled the Rules of the National Assembly. Moreover, you have smashed even the debate by taking away the right of fellow Members, in the case of the opposition, the right to make their proposals between first and second readings. I address you as a young, future politician, so to speak, who is at the beginning of his career. You're starting, how do I say, with a demonstrable, arrogant and bossy way of holding meetings. I'm addressing you, I've seen a lot of chairmen, but I advise you, again, most benevolently, just to observe the spirit, the law. We are trying to have some consensus, we are trying here, as you can see, and perhaps outside the Chamber notice that there should be dialogue, colleagues. I may bore you with these words, but I think the road here is to build bridges and in such bills to show that we can work together, that we can both give each other our hands. Mr. Chairman, you in no way tolerate this desire of the various political groups here in this Chamber to have some kind of dialogue, to have some consensus, although some timid attempts to throw bridges. So please, if you could just take a little bit of what I'm telling you. I turn around again, give it a chance to have a dialogue and understanding in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u130	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Mr. Karadaye, for procedure? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov was very right in his previous speech in the manner of conduct, but when you are in opposition you maintain these things. That's why, Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. The slogan for changing the model and the rule of law, if it is in action, will not come to those situations that we are now witnessing. Because I have a law, it is called the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2 It is settled that the National Assembly may exceptionally decide that the two votes should be held in one sitting, but there is a second sentence. The second sentence says: "This provision applies only if no proposals for amendments and additions to the bill have been made during the discussion, but there are proposals made during the debate. It is not enough that you have put it to a vote in violation of the Rules, now you are trying to impose other things, even if you are interrupting the debate, which is not right. This isn't a model change. This is not the rule of law. This is a violation of the laws of the country and when laws and the Constitution are violated by the right people, they belong to you. And when the opposition in one way or another makes you obstructions, you start putting labels on them, putting qualifications. Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you, do not walk into the policy field with the violation of the Constitution and the laws of the country! When the rules are followed, then there's no pressure and there's no problem. When the rules are broken, however, anything else about the rule of law that you speak as slogans from here, it is in the field of demagogy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Dear colleagues, although there is no legal logic and any other logic to put to the vote, the proposal made by Professor Baltov, as the Chamber decided that the Law should enter into force from 1 January, I will still put this proposal to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal made by Professor Baltov in § 4 to amend the text as follows: They voted 207 MPs: for 93, against 64, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] There's a request for a re-vote. We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 212 MPs: 95, against 62, abstention 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u133	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u134	You voted against your colleague's proposal? Here you are, Mr. Valchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u135	I voted against because I continue to argue that in the budget of the National Insurance Institute there are those reservations to enter from 1 July. There's no point in rushing, there's no point in breaking consensus. We could've given it three days. Congratulations, Mr. Tonev. I missed it last week. In the same way, we agreed on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education and, if you recall, he withdrew the proposal. Today I do not know why he decided to make a proposal to vote on two readings of this bill, since next week we will have a work programme, we could accept it, we have technical and not so technical proposals. The bill may enter into force on 1 July. It's the only thing that justifies his acceptance today. I am prepared to argue with the National Insurance Institute's leadership that there are such funds. I'm telling you again... Mr. Karimansky is shaking his head. No usher will reveal his budget reserves, because that means that we have voted on him a bigger budget than he needs. You know very well how much the National Insurance Institute budget is. Again, we have other suggestions. During the period from 1 July to 15 September we also have activities in kindergartens and kindergartens. For me the question remains unclear: do we have any other kindergartens outside kindergartens and nurserys, because that is precisely the contradiction we want to correct between first and second readings. One of the contradictions we want to correct between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u136	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Peter Kulenski, for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working day until the following items are adopted on the agenda relating to the VAT Act; the Judicial Authority Act; the Gambling Act and the change point in the committees. I think it's point nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Colleagues, I am voting on the procedural proposal made by my colleague Peter Kulenski to extend today's plenary session until the adoption of item 9 of the weekly programme. Vote 213 MPs: 120 against 92, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're overreacting. Vote 211 MPs: 118, against 92, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I put to the vote § 1, as it was read by Associate Professor Tonev; the name of the division; § 2, as also read by Associate Professor Tonev; § 3 again, as it was read by Associate Professor Tonev, and § 4 with the version already adopted. Vote 208 MPs: 204 against 4, no abstentions. The proposal is adopted and the Second Voting Bill is adopted. To explain the negative vote, please, Mr. Manev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I have deliberately voted against so that I can take advantage of what you have deprived us of talking about this bill. [[Part of the Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]] I just want to ask a question to all of you who are going to run outside: what did you accept today, colleagues? [[Noise and lines.]] What did we accept in this room today? [[Noise and lines.]] Nothing! Once, January 2023, eventually, something about these texts that you have adopted today will happen. Well, nothing's gonna happen! That is why I voted against because the pointless exercises in this National Assembly should have had enough already. Meaningless exercises from writing now on your Facebook pages: We adopted the Law that will help their children and mothers is a lie. We will not help with anything from either September 15th or June 1st. Never! First January 2023, possibly. [[Noise and lines.]] That is why I voted against!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u140	Mr. Manev, just for a second. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] I wanted to make a note to the colleagues in the front who were talking while you were making a negative vote. Still...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u141	It's like his negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u142	That's true, but we still have to respect the Assembly. For a negative vote! Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u143	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! My negative vote procedure will be based on the read texts. Why did I vote against? With a bill, colleagues, which the entire House supported, you managed with your inability to conduct dialogue and understanding under any excuses, even if you seek to sharpen relationships and political attacks, you proved it with today's meeting and this first point. In particular, the proposed texts I voted against because there was an opportunity next week, colleagues, with a three-day period to clear up the controversial texts, which are: the deadline for the entry into force of this bill, which we have repeatedly understood, and colleagues from our own, and other parliamentary groups have said and said that the editorial amendment postpones the Law after six months, that is, its urgency and its importance are postponed by six months. We could not debate on this, so I voted against because we have to prove to the Bulgarian citizens that when we are in this room, we must do something meaningful. I voted against because you have done something absolutely pointless today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although we supported the Law at first reading, unfortunately, the way in which it was approached opposed us to supporting it at second reading, even not plotting the proposals that we had made in an attempt to improve the texts. Unfortunately, the people who made this mess have already run away to drink coffee somewhere, without going all the way to hear what they got into and what problems they're actually going to do. Because we actually accepted a big nothing. This is the result of two-and-a-half hours of work by the National Assembly, a bill adopted under the exceptions in the Constitution, exceptionally adopted on two readings, with an element of urgency that has been postponed for six months. It was postponed for six months and will enter into force next year, certainly with the next government, as this government is resigned, and the next finance minister who will have to implement it, social minister and health minister. I mean, we adopted a bill that actually doesn't make any sense. If, God forbid, there is a crisis and a wave of wool and, God forbid, it comes to closing schools and kindergartens for the next six months this bill will not apply. If the colleagues are right, I'll say again that there are actually mechanisms, and right now the bill itself is pointless. That is, we adopted a meaningless bill, with meaningless deadlines, for a senseless waste of the National Assembly's time today on exceptions provided for in the Constitution, without making a qualitative debate, without allowing for proposals between readings as it is in principle in the Constitution and in the Rules of the National Assembly, and in general a bill that will be a door in a field, as are most of the majority that this majority proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u146	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. If there aren't any procedures, I'll be off by 12:00. At 12:00, we'll continue. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u147	Let's get started. Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON ADDED LOANS. You have the floor, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-254-01-42, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2022, adopted in the first vote on 8 July 2022. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Value Added Tax (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... Proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. [[The National Representative Petar Chobanov wants the floor.]] Do you want the title? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u149	Okay. Let's discuss the title and then you will report because you know that the title sometimes makes a little more political statements. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov, by the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, this law is important because it regulates economic relations and we had to take measures for them. I expected it to even appear in the budget update, as it could then, considering together with the update, and tax laws, which is not the best practice. It is better practice to examine tax laws first and to know with what framework from the point of view of revenue the budget itself will work. We chose together with the update to have tax laws, but the VAT threshold, in general, did not fall into them, so I expected there to appear, did not appear. Here also appeared, but somehow the framework itself that we are looking at, and the very possibilities to change some key parameters in the VAT Act in relation to this amount, for which VAT registration must be obtained, was pre-destined by the actions of the executive, that is, we tried to make constructive proposals, some of them we will also tell in the following paragraphs, unfortunately, however, they hung, as we were told that in May the executive decided to send a threshold notification that it had liked without having, naturally, and in this situation, some normal public discussion and to hear the views of the parties that depend on this threshold for registration. So this threshold of 100,000 has been sent. lv. and it prejudges the further discussion, the opportunities and the initiative that we can take on this issue. We have to comply with this threshold, it has to be 100,000. lv. and for this reason, although inflation processes and the development of economic relations in the country suggested another possibility, it was very limited precisely because of these actions of the administration and, as I said, taken without any public discussion, without in the Budget Committee even if we have put this issue to the Parliament, to have looked at it and see if there are other options and whether other options for a higher threshold correspond to the development of relations at the moment. So we will really support this threshold, make our proposals, then, when I hope in the autumn, in the next Parliament to deal with tax laws. I hope we will look at them before the budget, so that we are clear, as I said, what framework will the budget work with for 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements on the title of the Bill? I can't see. We're closing the discussion on the title. I am hesitant whether to vote now or after we have finished the discussion on the following paragraphs and then? However, I think we will still have to vote, not create unnecessary tensions. But I'm told, Mr. Karimansky, that you haven't read the title. Come and read it. Just Mr. Chobanov surprised us with his sudden desire to speak and confused us a bit. Read the title now and then we'll vote it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u152	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the law be amended as follows: The Act amending the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u153	I put to the vote the text of the Commission, which supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes an amendment to the title. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Re-vote, please! Vote 169 MPs: for 169, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u154	Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev u group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36b the period from 01.01.2020 to 31.12.2022 I'm going to fall in. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36b, para. 1, ct. 1 add the word "Vaxins" and then place a comma after it. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36b, para. 2 add the word "Vaxins" and then place the comma after it. The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for §1. Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The motion has also been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Under § 3, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski, made in accordance with Article 3. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it. Under § 4, there is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 4 and proposes to reject it. Under § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 5 and proposes to reject it. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 6 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u155	Are there any statements on the texts? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! We've had a number of suggestions. As you have seen, some of them have been withdrawn, and we have withdrawn them from this point of view, as I have said, that the threshold itself is predestined at the moment, and the possibility for our other proposals to be adopted, that is, there is no way at the moment to do so, but that does not mean that we should not indicate some important changes that are necessary and which we will take when our attention in the autumn is given to us the tax laws as they will appear for next year. This proposal, which remained here, concerns the vaccines, not only the vaccines for a horse, but also those on the vaccination calendar, as our proposal was for them to be at a zero rate, i.e. because they are very important for people's health, it is insane for us to think that this should happen. At the moment, the situation is such that by 31 December we have a zero rate in relation to the vaccines for a horse, but unfortunately, we see that the situation with the pandemic has not yet been resolved, and generally we see that at the moment the number of infected is increasing not only in Bulgaria, but also in Europe. For this reason, even though the derogation of the directive is currently until 31 December, we believe that, including at European level, the necessary action must be taken to extend this deadline in the next year. It is clear that, as a national Parliament, as a governance and as a whole in the country, we must comply with these European requirements, but nothing prevents us from being involved in the executive's participation in the relevant European Union formats, to be the initiator of such a change, because, as we see, the situation with a mackerel has not yet been resolved and it is necessary that this deadline is likely to be extended at least next year. Unfortunately, at the moment, as we have said, there is no way we can do this here, as we are going to go against existing European norms, but we have therefore drawn attention to this issue. Our proposal is at executive level to really take the necessary action, to initiate at least a discussion in the relevant European formats and to address this very important problem. The other proposals that have been withdrawn concern some outstanding issues regarding the fact that we are well raising the registration threshold to 100 thousand. BGN, but for registration there are 20 thousand. lv. That is, if we raise one threshold, it is logical to think about the other threshold, so that there is any reciprocity, there is some change there as economic relations already require it. Of course, since the Law was decided to enter into force from 1 January next year, we still have time to initiate similar changes in the autumn with tax laws. What we did not sign right now, because we need to look more closely and together with our colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, we need to do so is to ease the conditions and requirements for registration of individuals. As currently a natural person who has fees exceeding the relevant registration threshold within 12 months has to be registered under VAT. This should be done on his initiative, but the way to register is quite complicated.. Many documents are required, and most of the documents required are not available to the individual. In other words, it cannot know that it will exceed this threshold, and it is rarely possible to make such an account, it is not kept accounting during that time for a natural person, there is no requirement for it, and then, when it comes time to be registered under VAT, it is required to have all those documents that it does not have, it is required to have access to bank accounts for the last five years, even though the time limit is one year and a number of other documents that put the natural person in practice at a disadvantage and risk not to be registered under VAT, regardless of whether it has exceeded the threshold, and to be fined because it cannot provide those documents which it does not otherwise have. That is, in the autumn, when this issue is again addressed, it is necessary to do everything possible to make sure that the registration and deregistered individuals are in a more relaxed mode, thereby, of course, reducing the administrative burden of what we are all seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Chobanov? I can't see. Are there any other statements on the paragraphs so submitted? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u158	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u159	Oh, I'm sorry. [[Heckling]] You both will. Mr. Ananiev, I saw Mr. Dimitrov first. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is good that there are such important reforms around which Parliament is united and working together. I would like to explain a question that is constantly being asked by Bulgarian citizens, namely we are now deciding to increase the threshold of 100 thousand. leva, and they're asking if there's going to be a next increase? That question comes to me every day, and that's why I want to explain the following. This depends on a derogation requested by the Ministry of Finance, as well as the colleague explained, by the European Commission. This is a special type of derogation that, fellow Members, takes longer than six months. The practice in other countries that have requested such a procedure is that the time limit is roughly that. That is, 1 January 2023 is a viable or possible deadline, but we are limited to 100 thousand. BGN, because this is also the exception requested, this is about the average threshold in the European Union, colleagues. So there is reason to believe with great certainty that this wish will be fulfilled, this request from the Ministry of Finance will be fulfilled. Next year, however, life and health awaits a much more complex debate if we ask for a threshold of 166 thousand. BGN, because this is already the highest permissible threshold in the European Union, in terms of the rules that have been adopted. There will be a longer discussion and more complicated, but again, if we decide, I suggest we decide, we can do it and have this debate, but that's why we do it in two steps. Through the media, I want to answer all the citizens who ask this question because there are two steps, for this reason it is. But if we succeed with a large majority, as it has been so far, let's make the threshold 100,000. BGN, this for small and micro enterprises is an extremely important reform for which they have been waiting for 19 years. So this is the important action that I believe we will take together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Do you have lines? Here's a line, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, it was really necessary to take such action, it was good to approach the discussion about the higher threshold for 166 thousand from now on. lv. Yes, it is likely that arguments can be found in terms of turnover in the country, in terms of income, in terms of all other indicators that are related to this topic. We are not taking the second step anyway, as it is dropping as a paragraph, that is, we are discussing only this 100,000. BGN, which is still an important step forward, and if adopted, it will be good for economic relations. My specific question is because in my speech I have put my vision that we need to seek and alleviate certain requirements for individuals: do you agree with this? I mean, don't you see there a problem, and isn't it necessary to take the necessary action, because at the moment, as I said, the registration of individuals is quite complicated and risk not being approved by the tax administration and being fined, but not their fault, because these documents that are required of them can really be very difficult to obtain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go, for your coat, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u164	Mr. Chobanov, thank you for the serious and well-grounded question, we are ready to discuss these topics, to refine them very carefully and to think about what reliefs can be made. I also add that increasing the threshold to 100 thousand. lv. it also concerns self-employed people and it is a very important reform for them. But there is a nuance when we decide next year, if we make such a decision, there is such a will in colleagues from.. Democratic Bulgaria................................... to further increase the threshold of 166 thousand. I would like to say that this debate will be more difficult in terms of the fact that it concerns the adoption of the highest permissible threshold in the European Union. I mean, it's not as definite and obvious as it is now. The debate will be more difficult, but it deserves to be led. And to your particular question once again: yes, it is a topic that we will seriously discuss... the relief of the conditions for individuals so that they are not put before difficult administrative conditions that are sometimes impossible for them to implement and that they are not able to be active, to be entrepreneurs, to start an activity here we all have a common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u165	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The word is Mr. Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! GERB-SDS parliamentary group will support the proposal for lifting the registration threshold from 50 to 100 thousand. lv. Yes, indeed, perhaps there should have been a little more debate in the parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance regarding this threshold, but, anyway, this did not happen and the government has formally made a proposal for a derogation in the European Commission, indicating this threshold. We are satisfied with the debate that took place in the Committee on Budget and Finance. There it was decided that the entry into force of the new threshold will be after we receive the consent of the European Commission, or not earlier than 1 January 2023. This will enable us in the forthcoming debates on the draft budget for next year, which will govern, the executive in our country to make its macroeconomic forecast, its macro-ramma, policy, priorities that will follow next year, and then perhaps we will put to debate and proposed a new higher threshold, but everything is also related to revenues that will eventually lose the state budget next year. So the debate will be linked not only to the fact that there are really economic conditions that give us reason to raise the threshold above 100,000. lv. It's 166,000. BGN, or somewhere between 100 and 166 thousand. BGN to ease even more micro and small business, but also to make the corresponding estimates for the implementation of the revenue section in the next year and how it will provide the spending policies of the state. So we will support the proposed project to lift the registration from 50 to 100 thousand. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches on the paragraphs so submitted? I won't. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I suggest we make three votes. The first vote is on the proposal of Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 196 MPs: 29, against 113, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall vote on § 1 and § 2 by importer. Vote 203 MPs: 200 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. I mean, if you're up for rejecting them, you vote for. They voted 205 MPs: 120, against 48, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] Revoting? Please re-vote. Vote 202 MPs: 170 against 3, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u168	"Transitional and final provisions." Proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provision'. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 1 and proposes to reject it. Under § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 2 and proposes to reject it. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it. There is a proposal of the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs is created a new paragraph 4. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Ganev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3. .................................................. This law shall enter into force from the first day of the month following the month of the entry into force of a decision of the Council of the European Union authorising the Republic of Bulgaria to introduce a special measure for derogation under art. 287 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, but not before 1 January 2023
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Are there any speeches on the texts presented? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I could do it all at once, but it would still be cleaner to do it separately. First, let us vote on the name of the division in the version of the Commission. Vote 197 MPs: for 196, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. They voted 199 MPs: 171 against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the last text for the creation of a new § 3 in the version of the Commission. Vote 196 MPs: for 196, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been accepted, and the bill has been passed. [[(Applause from]] This consensus at times seems disturbing, but it's better than fighting. [[Radio.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. There are reports of three committees on this bill. I give the floor to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Mateev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022. At its regular meeting on 8 June 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Julia Kovacheva, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Daniela Belchina, Acting Director of the Department of Law and by the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria, Judge Galina Toneva, Chairman of the Second Criminal Office, and by the Civic Council of the Supreme Judicial Council. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs Kovacheva, who pointed out that in relation to legislative changes in 2020 and the implementation of the requirements and procedures of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office, it is necessary to establish rules to ensure the independence of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors when investigating cases of their competence and the exercise of their powers. The European Delegated Prosecutors are intended to be set up in a separate organizational structure in the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, with an act of the Council of Ministers providing the Supreme Judicial Council with an appropriate building to provide independent structures and legal proceedings, and the necessary funds will be provided by the budget of the judiciary. The draft Law proposes that the administrative functions of a Head be carried out by a European Delegated Prosecutor authorised by the European Prosecutor's Office, whose administrative functions are limited to the appointment of staff and the operation of financial resources. The rules for the designation of candidates from the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation (Eurojust) shall be revised and guarantees for a clear and transparent procedure shall be established. The amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code and to the Special Intelligence Means Act further develop the procedures for requesting, authorising and implementing specific intelligence resources by the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors, as well as the use of the data collected through them and material evidence. The bill provides for the structure of European delegated prosecutors to be granted the status of a unit of use within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act, with the aim of implementing and complying with the requirements for the protection of classified information. The Bill was notified by the Ministry of Justice, which applied an extract from a minutes of a meeting of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council held on 26 June 2022. As indicated by the Protocol, the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council gave a positive opinion on the Law, expressing reservations to § 1 and 4 of the Draft Law. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Judge Toneva and Ms Karagyozova took part in the public discussion of the bill. Judge Toneva expressed the support of the Supreme Court of Cassation to the presented Bill and emphasized the need for its adoption. It made detailed arguments stressing the special status of European Delegated Prosecutors in the Member States and the need to settle their powers in such a way as to comply with the powers of national prosecutors. Judge Toneva noted that the European Delegated Prosecutors have double status and are subject to both the European Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor-General, depending on their competences, and to guarantee their independence they should be assigned to an independent unit. She supported the proposed selection procedure of the national representative of the Republic of Bulgaria in Eurojust, pointing out that the proposal will guarantee a more competitive selection mechanism. Ms. Karagyozova put forward arguments against the proposed financing of the structure of the judiciary budget, the established independent status of the European Delegated Prosecutors within the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and refer to the written opinion expressed. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Dani Kanazireva, Branimir Balachev, Atanas Slavov, Krum Zarkov and Miroslav Ivanov. Ms. Kanazireva pointed out that the European Delegated Prosecutors are part of the European Prosecutor's Office and expressed arguments for the non-compliance of the proposed establishment of an independent body within the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria with art. 126 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which the structure of the prosecution corresponds to the courts and the registered in art. 8 of Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 structure at central and local level. She set out detailed considerations against the election of an administrative manager, the proposed powers of the European Delegated Prosecutors, as well as funding from the judiciary budget. The Deputy Minister of Justice emphasized on the powers of the European Delegated Prosecutors set out in Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 and stressed that their appointment in an autonomous structure to the Prosecutor's Office would ensure the implementation of the powers laid down in the Regulation. Ms. Kovacheva clarified that the said administrative manager has only organisational and no management functions in relation to the other delegated prosecutors. She pointed out that the Regulation explicitly provides for the means necessary to ensure that the investigative activity is borne by the Member States. Mr. Balachev said that the coverage in this way of the regulation is contrary to the basic law, as well as to the independence of the judiciary. He summarized that the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is united and the creation of an independent prosecution in it does not correspond with the spirit of the Regulation. The Member of the National Assembly noted that there is no order for judicial review of the acts and activities of delegated prosecutors. People's representative Atanas Slavov pointed out that the amendments proposed by the Law aim to create a legal framework to ensure the proper functioning of the European Prosecutor's Office and European Delegated Prosecutors. He summarized that the proposals were in line with Decision No 3 of 2004 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria which clarified the relations between national and European law. Mr. Slavov clarified that the European Prosecutor's Office was established by the Treaty on European Union and constitutes primary law. Mr. Zarkov said that from the Bulgarian BSP he supported the Bill and added that the proposed organizational structure and powers of delegated prosecutors are necessary to ensure independence in the activities of delegated prosecutors, with the correct reading of the provisions does not reveal a contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. National Representative Miroslav Ivanov pointed out that the Bill aims to secure the necessary resources to secure the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutors and its adoption will guarantee their independence from national authorities, as are the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. After the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Judiciary Act, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u171	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. The next report belongs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Who will present the First Voting Report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u172	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022. At its regular meeting on 8 June 2022, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Judicial Tribunal Act, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Daniela Belchina, acting director of the Ministry of Justice. The bill submitted complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The bill and its motives were presented by Mrs Belchina. This bill empowers the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors to perform the functions of the Prosecutor provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Judicial Authority Act, ensuring their independence as required by Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. The status of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors shall be aligned with the status of national prosecutors, allowing the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors to exercise their powers under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 in full. The Law provides for European Delegated Prosecutors to be set up in a separate organisational structure in the EPPO and for the administrative functions of a Head to be performed by a European Delegated Prosecutor authorised by the European Prosecutor's Office. To ensure good working conditions and working environment with an act of the Council of Ministers will be provided to the Supreme Judicial Council an appropriate building for the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutors, where separate registration and legal proceedings will be separate according to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Implementing Rules for its application. The funds needed to carry out their activities will be provided by the budget of the judiciary. The final provisions of the law provide for a change in the Law on Special Intelligence, in the Criminal Procedure Code, in the Law on Protection of Classified Information, in the Act on the Ministry of Interior, and in the Law on Customs. Members of parliament Krum Zarkov, Rena Stefanova and Nikolay Radulov took part in the discussion. The Members of the National Assembly expressed support for the bill under consideration, stating that its philosophy is correct, but that individual texts between the first and second votes will need to be refined. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results, 11 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal Law No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. The Commission's report on European Union issues is yet to come. Is there a representative? You have the floor, Mrs. Apostolic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u174	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Judicial Law, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 27 May 2022, the Council adopted Regulation At its regular meeting held on 23 June 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Bill. The bill was presented by Mrs. Julia Kovacheva, Deputy Minister of Justice. This bill aims to empower the European Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors to perform the functions of the Prosecutor provided for in the PPC and the PPC, ensuring their independence as required by Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. Independence is a fundamental principle which ensures the lead function of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the investigation of the share of its material competence. The status of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors shall be aligned with the status of national prosecutors, allowing the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors to exercise their powers under Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 in full. The WID of the Judicial Law aims to facilitate the exercise of the functions of the European Delegated Prosecutors, and it is necessary for each State to provide them with the necessary resources and equipment in order to ensure good general working conditions and working environment that guarantee them full integration into national prosecutors' offices. The European Delegated Prosecutor's Office shall be appointed by the European Delegated Prosecutor's Office in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament The Supreme Judicial Council is set to provide an appropriate building for the activities of European Delegated Prosecutors, where separate registration and proceedings will be separate according to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act and the Rules for the Implementation of the Classified Information Protection Act. The funds needed to carry out the activities of European delegated prosecutors will be provided by the budget of the judiciary. The degree of authorising officer with a budget of the head of the structure of the European Delegated Prosecutors will be determined by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. The final provisions of the law provide for a change to the Special Intelligence Means Act and to the PPC, which expressly governs the right of the European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutors to request the use of special intelligence means and to use the data collected through them and material evidence in the cases of the European Prosecutor's jurisdiction. The expected results of the adoption of the Bill are the provision of the necessary conditions which will allow the European Prosecutor's Office to effectively perform the functions assigned to it. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Union Affairs proposed by 9 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Apostolova. Would you like, Mrs. Yordanova, as an importer? In the end, it's okay. Then I open the discussion on the Bill. First Mrs. Kanazireva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u176	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! In this extremely important Bill that we are dealing with today, I believe that there have been contradictions again, and I hope that, if it is adopted, between first second readings will be removed. The submitted project thus envisions the establishment and establishment of European Delegated Prosecutors in an autonomous organisational structure with the election, including among them of an administrative manager, of a head with administrative functions. We strongly believe that such a wording, so written, is contrary to Regulation 2017/1939 establishing the European Prosecutor's Office, because in art. 8 of the Regulation clearly and unambiguously describes the structure of the European Public Prosecutor's Office at both a centralised level and a decentralised level. The proposed changes categorically contradict that part of them as they create a new organisational structure at a decentralised level, an independent level which is no longer subordinate to the central authorities, but has its own administrative manager. About the intended election of an administrative manager. According to the regulation which I have already cited, European delegated prosecutors have the same status and none of them can be elected as head. I therefore strongly believe that the order of subordination at the central level, consisting of a European Prosecutor General, his deputies, the College and others, is changing. Each Delegated Prosecutor should be really subject to direct subordination at the centralised level and not to another delegated European Prosecutor declared to be his administrative head. Delegated European Prosecutors under art. 13, para. 3 of the regulation retain their status as prosecutors, part of the national judicial system of national prosecutors. However, if the same prosecutors are both in a separate independent structure by delegated prosecutors and at the same time part of the national prosecutor's office, this is thus a contradiction in itself. There's no way they could be prosecutors in both structures. In this way you liquidate the possibility to directly apply art. 13, p.o.b. 3 of the Regulation. Apart from that, according to § 6 you have foreseen that the Plenum of the SJC adopted the Rules of Administration of delegated European Prosecutors. I firmly believe that this provision is once again contrary to the regulation, according to art. 9, para. The College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office shall adopt the internal rules of procedure and decide all strategic and general matters. The transfer in this sense of competence by the College of the Plenum of the SJC is categorically in direct interference with its independence. The idea, colleagues, for the establishment of an autonomous structure with an administrative leader, with own budget, with the adoption of the Rules of Administration and the activity is also directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126, para. 1 it is said that each structure of the prosecution must correspond to the respective bodies of the courts. By creating an independent structure of the European Delegated Prosecutors, you do not have the appropriate structure of the courts. Last, in § 12 and § 13 you have provided that the interaction between investigating police officers and European Delegated Prosecutors, as well as the customs inspectors provided for in the Customs Act, the interaction between them and the European Delegated Prosecutors, is governed by the signing of an agreement between these structures and that issue is an administrative head. We strongly believe that this is once again directly contrary to the Regulation because, according to Art. 11, para. 3 only and only the European Prosecutor General has representative power and can sign such agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Come in for a cue, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, let us look at the proposals for specific provisions in the creation of art. 139a and to see that in fact the head of which you spoke is not an administrative leader within the meaning of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Law on the Judiciary, but is only a head with administrative functions in relation to the administration. In other words, he is not the head of the other delegated European prosecutors but is the head of the administration. From this point of view, I do not think that there is a contradiction either with the constitutional order or with the regulation. Moreover, to the best of my knowledge, there is a decision of the College of the European Prosecutor's Office of 2021, which says: "Every State to empower a Delegated Prosecutor with administrative and coordination actions in relation to the decentralised level of the European Prosecutor's Office. "I mean, we have, so to speak, delegates from the College of Prosecutors. Member States shall designate one manager, I repeat, with administrative functions in relation to organisation and administration, but not to other prosecutors. From this point of view, I believe that we are not at odds with either the regulation or the Constitution. Further in my speech, I will make a note on other topics that you have affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u179	Are there any other lines for Mrs. Kanazireva? Mr. Gochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, I fully agree with what colleague Atanas Slavov said. And I will add to what you said there should be a correlation between the structure of the prosecution and the courts under art. 126 of the Constitution is clear that this is a constitutional principle, indeed, but it is also clear that it is not absolute. First of all, the first exception is obviously the figure of the Attorney General, who is outside the structure of the courts. The other thing is that inside the prosecution there are different departments that are organized in some particular way. Including territorial departments that work for the respective district prosecutors. So it's pretty clear to me that we don't have that kind of absoluteness here that I think you're talking about. Secondly, when we are talking about some type of specialist, including when it was the hearing or voting, the discussion at the Supreme Judicial Council of the Minister of Justice's proposal for the removal of the Attorney General, there was one of the members of the SJC, a representative of the Prosecutor's College, said that the specialization was a good thing and that the existence of this type of internal specialization within the Prosecutor's Office is not something that is excluded from the existing framework. That's actually what we're doing at an administrative level. The changes are by no means as big as they're said to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Third line, Mr. Enchev? No. Here you go, Mrs. Kanazireva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u182	Mr. Gochev, once again from How can you state that the principle laid down in the Constitution by art. 126, wasn't it absolute?! What does the text of the Constitution mean to be absolute and non-absolute?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u183	For citizenship.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u184	I mean, it's real to all of us and it's not absolute to all of you! What is this legal absurdity I hear in this National Assembly, fellow Members?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Please stop! I was completely well-intentioned on the microphone, absolutely expertly trying to explain. I even said: I hope, if it is adopted, between first and second reading, that the alleged contradictions will be removed, as the bill is important! You are telling me that the principle is not absolute, enshrined in the Constitution. No, he's absolute! I'll read it to you, too, Art. 126, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says: That's not a operative. It does not allow a deviation from this norm. That is why I am telling you: let us arrange for European delegated prosecutors. Yes, we have a European Union Regulation. It is binding for us as a member state, but we cannot create a single, organisational, new structure! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 of the regulation in question, which is clearly entitled "Structure of the European Prosecutor's Office', the European Prosecutor's Office is an indivisible body and its structure is indicated at central and decentralised level! No, this clearly does not contain the possibility of creating new structures at a decentralised level. The same goes directly against the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Slavov, my respects, however, what you say in the same way as in the Legal Committee. I have received nothing in particular from the Ministry of Justice or from you as governors of my arguments. Whether he is an administrative manager or a manager with administrative functions, you create a governing body and change the order of submission of European delegated prosecutors who are equal, of the same status and are subject to their central level! Okay, if that's your idea, clear these words and texts between first and second readings. But you can't create a single structure. Remove those rules, which are adopted by the Plenum of the SJC. The EPPO shall adopt its rules of procedure. It's not our S.E.C. to arrange the activities of delegated prosecutors! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And not to mention the agreement that this head with administrative functions even less, according to your words, has a representative authority to sign an agreement with the Interior Minister or anyone to settle the interaction between investigative police officers and customs inspectors. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Now the word is Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u186	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In fact, my speech will be somewhat a continuation of what my colleague Danny Kanazireva started. We represent in general the opinion that our parliamentary group has on this proposal for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary. I will start by saying that Mr. Mateev does not see it at the moment in this Chamber that the report he read to you.. he has assessed, of course, what to include in it and what not, but there were two things that I very much held..... in fact my whole legal structure about that this law is illegal, unconstitutional, is based on two things. Firstly, that the proposals so made do not actually aim at regulating certain socio-economic relations both in relation to the legal system in Bulgaria and in relation to the European Prosecutor's Office established on 1 June 2021. Because the idea, and in a moment, I'm going to justify why it's really going to be the prosecutor's office. Why would we do a prosecutor's office? Because we don't like this prosecutor. Maybe we don't like the whole D.A.'s office. Maybe we don't like one person in this D.A.'s office. And from this tribune I have repeatedly said: whether the chief prosecutor will be called Ivan Geshev, or will be said by any other name, he will not be loved by the same force by all of us. So the law in this regard, in order to change Geshev or to circumvent him in any way, can definitely not be legal or constitutional. By saying these things, I asked Minister Yordanova's deputy in the European Union from the 22 countries that have accepted because there are countries that are not members and did not accept this structure of the European Prosecutor's Office, which is intended and so on, will I say in a moment, is there somewhere created such a structure, solo, for which is actually the idea and what is the proposal actually of this amendment and addition to the Law on the Judiciary? They couldn't answer me back then, but I got a message from them afterwards, and they said what I had previously verified that there was no such structure in any of these 22 countries. In other words, no one has read such a structure as Regulation 1939 and, in fact, the incoming report, which has been since 2020, which has actually been decided by the European Commission on the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office. I will not, and I assure you, honourable Members, that there will not be, because it is unacceptable. We're a continental legal system. For those 35 lawyers in the courtroom, I hope that tells them something. This is our system, the so-called continental or Roman, where the prosecution in all, in all European countries, because we, except for England, which is no longer a member of the European Union that confesses the Anglo-Saxon system, we confess this and the prosecution is a separate, independent part of the judiciary. In us this prosecution finds its trust in the Constitution, not only in art. 126, who read the honourable colleague Kanazireva, but also in the powers of the Prosecutor's Office and respectively of the Prosecutor General in art. 127. So the establishment of the prosecution in the prosecution is inadmissible by law, as our prosecution is unified and indivisible. This, in order to be able to understand not only me, I have been digging around in this topic for a long time, but for those colleagues who are not lawyers, and the subject, indeed, legal regulation is not so simple, it must be clear what was actually adopted and which entered into force from 1 June 2021. The European Prosecutor's Office is an authority of the European Union which has a certain structure, has a certain perimeter of action and has certain rules with which it interacts with national systems. Or, in a simpler language, according to these rules, which have been adopted and one part find their expression in the 1939 Directive, are: First, that the European Prosecutor's Office is a body of investigation, prosecution and court through the national system of the State in which the relevant crime has been committed and within the perimeter, i.e. the subject of the extension of its powers is reduced to where the financial interests of the European Union are violated, i.e. it is not boundless. But here, I have said it to the Commission, and I will allow myself to say it in front of you, there is one thing that is very stretchy and dangerous. Therefore, we must be extremely demanding and careful about this, because it says that in art. 11 when the Regulation refers to the scope, it is not only those financial crimes that are referred to, but also to other related crimes. So here we could allow an out-of-control start of digging into opponents we don't enjoy. Today it's not going to be, you know, you're going to be somewhere at the end there, at the place of rebirth, and that way this thing can turn against you, and our task as people who create laws, let's make the law useful to society and not to any of you. Therefore, we must, i.e. the possibility for the Bulgarian legal system to control what is being done in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria through the so-called common control in art. 127, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution and respectively developed in the relevant laws and regulations, is that we still have some control over this thing. And if you think it's something I've come up with, it's not. Because also in the report adopted and decided to form the European Chief Prosecutor's Office, and in the regulation itself it is explicitly stated, and this is the purpose, task and method of interaction, which in fact this draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Judiciary is trying to derogate. And the European Union's idea is the national prosecution, together with the European Prosecutor's Office, to fight against the financial crimes that can commit ordinary entities, whether by natural or legal persons, by European funds, money laundering... They are four hypotheses that are listed in this report. That's why we need to know that there's no way we can split up and do a secret prosecutor's office, because the creation of a separate building, a separate law firm, a separate secret law firm, and secretaries, and I don't know what... What are we hiding it from and who are we hiding it from? Either there is a crime, and it will go according to the order, and if it is within the perimeter of the European Prosecutor's Office, it will even be started by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, we will seize it and continue it, or it will not be considered by this Prosecutor's Office at all. Unity should be there, not wondering how to separate and hide from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office what the European Prosecutor's Office will do. That's not gonna happen. The purpose, the idea of both the regulation and the report, and of our legislation with the reasons we have adopted it, is there to have synergies, not separation. And you're proposing, dear Minister, that we actually separate this thing. Apart from that, what's the idea? Because I guess most of you haven't read it and they don't know it. The idea is, in fact, that these delegated prosecutors receive in the appropriate order, whether through the prosecution, through the police, by post or by personal contact, signals of such types of violations. That's his role. And from now on we have another system, it is outside the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and it is clearly formulated in both the Regulation and the Report with which it was adopted, and it goes up and there is a structure. We cannot change this structure, Madam Minister. There is no way we can create such a structure and someone is trying to convince us that this regional structure at the state level was admissible. No, it's not admissible! Because according to the structure and the Report and the Regulation, it is said: the Prosecutor General has the following structure: the Prosecutor General, who manages the European Prosecutor's Office, organizes the work and organizes it in front of the other countries. What rules can we talk about at all? We're gonna make the rules of Koveshi, give it to her, and she's gonna take it, and she's gonna hug him, and she's gonna start working on our rules? They have their rules. The structure below is clear and clear, this is the College of Prosecutors. There are absolutely all prosecutors from all countries, these 22 countries, who accepted the establishment of this Prosecutor's Office. And thirdly, because there is talk of the independence of the European prosecutor, the so-called permanent chambers are in third place. These are the chambers that actually follow cases. Not our prosecutor, not the one you want to choose as head, administrative manager, and the Chamber distributes the cases, monitors each of the cases, gives the necessary instructions and this prosecutor, who in his other part is in the structure of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, performs these functions. So let's talk about the fact that there is and we need to create an additional structure, it is certainly against the law, including the regulation, including the Report with which it was adopted, not to mention our Constitution, where it explicitly says that such an entity in the Bulgarian rule of law cannot exist. First, because it is independent and it is fixed in art. 117 of the Constitution, and therefore in the corresponding other texts, which I quoted just now. That is why what you are actually proposing, I will not dwell on every single text, although I am prepared, but there are fracking cases. Even you didn't see that in § 1, t. 2 for example, para. 11 years ago, it was long ago cancelled by the Constitutional Court. However, you are putting it here, which speaks of the fact that in the creation of this law you did not really see what to do in the interests of the rule of law in Bulgaria and the detection of crime, but you just decided that this is how you can circumvent the Prosecutor General and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. So I'm not going to dwell on the other props that definitely don't respond and are illegal, yet I say to none of the three. I know Zarkov will come here and say how good the law was, but Zarkov won't be right, because he's, first of all, not a practitioner, right, and second of all, I understand that you've already gone to the PP and you're going to support theirs, maybe you're looking for your realization, but, a colleague, really...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u187	Colleague Balachev, let's concentrate on the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u188	No, it's nothing personal. We respect each other with colleague Zarkov. Nothing personal, but I mean, this is the legal basis, and we based on this legal basis have to say yes or no. And when we sit down and read them paragraph by paragraph, you'll see. Because here are the Special Intelligence Act, here we should bear in mind that the judicial repression, whatever it was, whoever led it, was led by a Bulgarian court; the permissions for special intelligence means are given by the Bulgarian court, they pass a mandatory structure and so on and so forth. So I said I could talk for another hour, but I'll do it at second reading. At first reading, I will not vote for a law that wants to make the prosecutor's office because it is illegal. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u189	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. You can't talk for an hour because the group's time is limited.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u190	Extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u191	Here you go. For a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u192	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u193	Ah, line, well, I'll give you the advantage. Then Mr. Slavov asked. Mrs. Dimitrusheva, you for a line or a statement? Then I'll give you the floor for a third line. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a line. I don't know now, this time at the P.I. Maybe they should count it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Balachev, we, as you said, respect each other and I will respectfully note one of your achievements: even from this tribune, rarely has anyone spoken for 13 minutes and missed a single true sentence. [[Applause and laughter from "We continue the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Big helmet! And now, you said I should go to the PP. It's not the PP! The European Delegated Prosecutors were created by GERB. By the way, we supported them because this is a regulation and this regulation, when we supported it, and I, and my colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group, warned that it was a good job, but a prosecutor, a European delegated prosecutor, does not work alone, he does not work in a vacuum and will need bigger changes than those that were then tabled by the government in the Criminal Procedure Code and the Judicial Law. Some of these changes are on the agenda today. The opposition that you have has arguments that you point out, and I think there are very clear answers. Most of them were given to the Legal Commission. They obviously didn't get to you or you didn't accept them, your right, but let's cut to the chase. What you are saying about the Prosecutor's Office is not a criticism of the organisational structure that is now being created, but a criticism of the very existence of the European Prosecutor's Office. A existence which is enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon developed by the relevant regulation and which took a long time to happen in practice precisely because many lawyers like you, from different countries, cannot exactly navigate in this new structure, I mean the European Prosecutor's Office. Why can't they? Because contrary to what you are saying, this is not about the interaction between the judicial authorities, the prosecution or others, but it is about the exclusive competence which the European Union gives itself and is adopted by the Member States, to remove certain types of criminal proceedings, those that are generally related to European funds, and to guide them, regardless of the national authorities. This isn't about Geshev, we like him or we don't like him, you obviously like him, we don't, this is another debate, this is about all the countries. All the countries! One of the foundations of this regulation, which you wrongly quoted several times, is to be an independent and independent body. In order for it to be so, it needs some simple things, such as self-trialing, secretaries and other things that you mentioned. I return to the argument of unconstitutionality by a colleague of yours, and I will end this, Mr President, by booking my right to develop my argument further. There is no contradiction with art. 126, para. 1 of the Constitution, because I am sure that you distinguish between the structure of the prosecution stated in the Constitution and the organisational structure of the prosecution that is being done here. One, of course, corresponds to the courts of the districts, districts, territorial units. The others are departments and units that have many now. So let us not give particular drama to a bill that has a clear purpose, not a hidden one, but a clear objective to provide work opportunities, working conditions for an independent investigation of European prosecutors, as they are provided for in the regulation. Your heated defense is ultimately of a single negative opinion that came from the prosecution, the others are positive. So once again, by accepting your respect and declaring mine to you, you are wrong. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u195	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line Mr. Slavov, third line Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Balachev! In your richly different statements, I have chosen a few things to replicate. First of all, as regards the structure of the European Prosecutor's Office, the place of delegated European Prosecutors and what organisational peculiarity they should have in the countries. I will read you an accurate text translated by the Regulation, proposal 32 of the preamble. The European Prosecutors should be an integral part of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and, as such, in the conduct of an investigation, criminal prosecution in connection with criminal offences of the jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office to act exclusively on behalf of and for the European Prosecutor's Office in the territory of their Member State concerned. In relation to this requirement under this Regulation, they should be granted an independent status in a functional and legal manner which is different from any other national law status. That is, there is nothing unconstitutional about the establishment of a single unit which, with the administration concerned, assists European Delegated Prosecutors, it is entirely consistent with the logic and meaning of the European Regulation. Also the main thesis that developed from both Mrs. Kanazireva and from you, Mr. Balachev, was about some unconstitutionality. Firstly, let us recall that European Union regulations have direct and immediate effect in the legal lines of the Member States. It's not international law, it's supranational law. [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] But none, Mr. Hamid, found a contradiction to the Constitution in this case. And let's say, however, there is a Decision No 2 of the Constitutional Court of 2017 which states that the full overlap of the territorial structures of the court and the prosecution is not mandatory within the meaning of art. 126, para. 1 of the Constitution. And at the moment, colleagues, there are district courts, without any relevant districts of prosecutions, because in recent years some of the district prosecutors have been closed down, territorial divisions have been created. So this argument from art. 126, para. 1 please do not repeat it again, it is not a valid argument, especially with regard to the European Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u197	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line, Mr. Tonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Balachev! Being a non-jurist, I will allow my comment to go beyond your details, which you mentioned, but I have been impressed by some interesting things in your speech. It's possible that after a while we'll be standing right across the street, we might be standing at the end of the room, we might be out of the room. But not where we stand will determine the prosecution's behaviour towards us, but our actions. And no matter where we stand, if our actions are related to the implementation of the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and the regulations and if during a quarantine, we stay at home and do not work, no one will probably pursue us. So I will not stress the hidden threat in your words to us, to our behaviour as politicians, which you may wish to say, but I will tell you and inform the Chamber to be calm that if they comply with the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, it does not matter what the prosecution will be. In your words, I also wish to receive an answer in your duplicate of the things I am asking as a reply, somehow an idea that every prosecution that we have no control over is a bad prosecution, because we are not creating our prosecution, as there was a special prosecution until recently by law, and de facto, and we are creating the prosecution, which, hopefully, no political party will be able to control, and this may be really worrying for some of the MPs in this House. I'm asking for an answer in the back. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u199	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll start my coat with the same sense of humor that my colleague Zarkov had to say. By saying that I have spoken for 13 minutes without saying anything, although I have quoted more than 10 texts from the document with which it is the decision to have a European Prosecutor's Office, and the directive itself, and the Constitution, and I have looked around to see if there is, after all, someone who can speak pό in vain from me. I turned around and, unfortunately, what did I see? Colleague Zarkov, make a printout later so you can see that you didn't say a single argument against my legal arguments that I put forward. So deep down I bow before you, you really beat me. With regard to the structure of the prosecution, which you believe is acceptable for this thing to happen. I am telling you and quoting precisely these legal documents, which you, as a person who is trying to prepare, should be known. And there is explicitly written what the structure of the European Prosecutor's Office is and it cannot be answered and Dr. Tonev in this case can not be part of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, understand this thing. You can't! It is a separate structure with separate guidance, separate control and everything else. So let's talk about this prosecutor's office being a department, part, floor, whatever else you think is going to happen. Because the prosecutor is a Bulgarian prosecutor when dealing with cases that are outside the perimeter of the European Prosecutor's Office of Justice, and when it is dealt with, he cannot make his own cases and this is not what you have read between the lines of these legal acts. Learn these things, you're a reading man! I guess this is where the flings between the two lines keep you from concentrating on the legal arguments. [[Laughter, noise, applause.]] As far as the investigation is concerned. The investigation itself can only be carried out by the Bulgarian investigative authorities, not only that. In particular, Professor Slavov wrote that I quote texts that are not true, I will say that this thing is not because it is explicitly written down how the investigation takes place. 30. Look at this thing, translate it from the Regulation, where it's said how the investigation is done, who's forming it, who's watching it, and so on. One more thing is there, Associate Professor Slavov that it must comply with national law and cannot be different from it. Our justice system can't be ruled out just because the D.A. is like that. Yeah, we can't, and that's why I'm saying it's unnecessary. It is absolutely unnecessary to say that he was not subordinate to the Prosecutor General, he is de facto not subordinate to the Prosecutor General because such is the construction of the European Prosecutor's Office. And in this text t. 7 to fail on § 2, you think it is meaningless, because it is unacceptable, it is decided, and we have accepted it. Whether I or someone else agrees, it doesn't matter, but we have accepted it and we are for the European Prosecutor's Office. So I said that most of your texts, not to say all of them, are contrary to the basic rules of what you are quoting as the basis for creating this request of amendment and supplement to the Law with what it actually says in the Law itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u201	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. There's no more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u202	Just two words. With regard to Associate Professor Tonev, I am finished, although I am accustomed to speaking for eight hours, so you have no concern at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u203	You'll get a line later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u204	Professor Tonev, when I said that you might not be here or who will be where, I meant the creation of the law and not your responsibility. Because if you now look lightly at this question and we accept one such prematureness, one legal nothing, then others will follow us even if we are not here, they will have to enjoy or amend, or supplement, or cancel this law. This is what I meant, not purely political or criminal responsibility for each of you. Of course, he who obeys the law has nothing to fear. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u205	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Now I give the floor to Mrs. Dimitrusheva for a statement. After her is Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Lying that you're working land, listing nobody's desert land as your own and tiller, forging documents, making attempts at fraud, blackmailing farmers and candidates under euro programmes to do your job as a civil servant, it's not just scenarios on how to drain euro funds. In fact, these are real facts of financial abuse by the Borisov era, which have been revealed by the European Prosecutor's Office. And that's part of the revelations. And our D.A.'s office has been closing her eyes for years. It has been seen that in order to have investigations for major abuses and to have justice, there is a need for independent and foreign European prosecutors, and this is actually one of the great benefits of our membership in the European Union. Currently, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is working on more than 120 investigations into abuse in various fields of agriculture, construction, health care, infrastructure. Let me remind you again what powers she has and what she is fighting against. As opposition colleagues have said, yes, against crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union, such as fraud, corruption, money laundering, embezzlement. In fact, all these are actions that have a negative impact on taxpayers' money in the European Union and, in fact, also on Bulgarian taxpayers. This is why it is so important to arrange the activities of the European prosecutors in Bulgaria by amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary and we from "We Continue the Change" will support these changes. I will share in more detail some of the reasons why this change is so important. First of all, in the European Union Bulgaria has a strong need for an active and fully functioning European Prosecutor's Office, it is proved by the record number of signals from Bulgaria, which have been submitted only by March are 120. It is also proven by the negative findings of the European institutions, such as the latest OLAF reports. Most of all, it proves the fact that money is being spent, and money does not reach the people. The rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer, and that is visible to everyone, there is no need to be a lawyer to see it, unfortunately. But this can no longer go unpunished. It is time for these abuses to cease, and that is why it is evidently necessary to take additional measures. If this requires assistance from Bulgaria, for example, the delegated European prosecutors to have their own organisational structure: building, law enforcement, registration, these seemingly additional things for their activity, yes, we will support them because we came here with a request for zero corruption and for the fight against thefts. That remains our cause. For me as a lawyer, frankly, it was also my main motivation to join the Change. I very much hope that very soon in these seats in our Bulgarian Parliament there will be a real anti-corruption majority and at last will be the positive changes that the people have long been waiting for. Something else I would like to point out that according to the Regulation and the commitment that Bulgaria has undertaken, it is appropriate for these delegated prosecutors to have full independence. 6 of the Regulation and national authorities to assist them, according to art. 96, § 6 of the Regulation, it is appropriate to provide resources and equipment which are necessary, it is not stated what exactly, it is not stated how many secretaries there should have, whether there should be a separate administration?. Everything that is necessary for their activity, and there is nothing wrong with that, these are guarantees that they can have a more relaxed job, this is also the purpose of this law to amend and supplement. I understand that the opposition is worried, I understand that the Prosecutor General is worried, this is evident from his opinions, but the European Prosecutor's Office is a fact and it is not subordinate to the Bulgarian Prosecutor-General, it is independent, obviously this is the chance of Bulgaria everyone in the country, who is king, to be revealed and to get what is deserved. As unpleasant as it may be for some, the European Prosecutor's Office has provided mechanisms for working on local soil. Here on local soil, regardless of the Prosecutor General, because Bulgaria is Europe and it is high time that there is transparency and justice here. With regard to legal arguments. I fully agree with my colleagues Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Slavov. I would like to draw attention once again only to the fact that there are no specific rules in the regulation on how the work of delegated prosecutors should be administered. It is only necessary for them to be independent and, in fact, the Bulgarian structures in this case to refrain from trying to influence it, and on the contrary, they have an obligation to support their activities. It is precisely for these reasons that we from "Keep the Change" continue to find the proposals PID extremely meaningful and we will support it, it is part of our cause for zero tolerance for corruption. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and shouts: "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. Are there any lines to Mrs. Dimitrusheva? Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for the first line. Mr. Enchev the second line and Hamid Hamid the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u208	Mr. Chairman, the question I want to ask is very brief. We've heard how to solve problems in the judiciary, we have to bring in foreign independent prosecutors, otherwise, if they're foreign, then they're independent, otherwise they can run us better. In the report, which was briefly summarized yesterday and now we are getting acquainted with it in detail, there is criticism not only of the judiciary but also of the legislative and executive powers. My question to you, Mrs. Dimitrusheva, is as follows: should we be able to deal with all those deficiencies and shortcomings identified by the European Commission, apart from foreign and independent prosecutors, foreign and independent ministers, foreign and independent MPs, in order to make sure that foreign and independent ministers, MPs and prosecutors can deal with all those identified by the European Commission, because once again, they do not concern the questions of the judiciary, which we have submitted since December 3rd, which has not yet been addressed. Now we're looking at each other. It's very interesting how it went before ours, even though ours has been aged for seven months, but let's just say it's not up to you. I will wait to hear the answer to this question: should we bring in, apart from independent foreign prosecutors and independent foreign ministers and MPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Second line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! My dear colleague Dimitrusheva, I am very pleased to see you here, and that you are trying to change something in this country in your way, with your thinking and with what you think you are doing. I already see the third parliament making efforts to the left and to the right to bypass the chief prosecutor and to make a new structure to help in some way. I ask you and your entire party to show a little more respect for all of us who are currently opposition. We're not worried about anything for the simple reason that the same thing you do works for us. Just because you don't know us doesn't make us enemies, doesn't make us bad. We're here together to work. Abstract from everything you watch and listen to and accept the fact that we went to the same schools you went to, and we work the same trade. Tomorrow we'll meet on the street and I won't be a mafia, and you won't be ruling. This will pass and leave. So read carefully and act naturally. We're all trying to do something. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u211	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Hamid, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are also wonders in this Parliament, for example, for Mr Vigenin to look at and record me as a replicator. It's in the circle of the joke. I would like to welcome Mrs. Dimitrusheva's speech and encourage her. Way to go! From here you should list everything the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria has closed its eyes for. This is the right path and do it bravely. You have our full support. But do we have to make it selective? Should we not mention here whether the prosecution closed its eyes when a man signed a false document? Hamid Hamid does not say that, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria says that. The whole world has found out that this man committed a crime under art. 313 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yes, the prosecution closed her eyes and Mrs. Dimitrusheva should have said that too. Mrs. Dimitrusheva should have said that the prosecution closed her eyes on another extremely difficult case. He didn't protest an acquittal at first instance, why? One of the few convictions untested by the prosecutor's office and left like that. We have to say here from this tribune who hid the oligarch Prokopiev the acquittal of the beloved oligarch of power, Mrs. Dimitrusheva. Otherwise, I fully support you in your speech. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u213	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. For the doppelganger? Mrs. Dimitrusheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would just like to draw attention to the following. First of all, I am pleased that there is a constructive dialogue and there is definitely a desire in this House to talk about justice and ultimately to have a desire for it. However, the discussion today is about a specific topic, and it is about the abuse of EU funds and how this is controlled. With regard to all the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, I think that it would be most appropriate to carry out a hearing of the Prosecutor General in the relevant committee. I think it would be interesting for everyone and God willing to have a quorum on this committee. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and shouts: "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u215	For speech, colleagues are enrolled Atanas Slavov, Dimitar Gochev, Petar Petrov, Petar Kulenski, Anna Alexandrova, Hamid Hamid, Krum Zarkov, Radomir Cholakov and Tsvetan Enchev. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! So far, we've heard a few things in the discussion. First of all, we have heard that it is wonderful to have a European Prosecutor's Office, European Delegated Prosecutors, but when we have to give them a real opportunity to do their research and these investigations to give their result to the Bulgarian society, we refuse this opportunity because we do not give them the necessary resources and the necessary administrative provision to do this activity. We also heard that in the continental legal system prosecutors are always part of the judiciary. No, colleagues, prosecutors being part of the judiciary is more of an exception. And even in countries we respect and have always taken an example of them as Germany and Austria, prosecutors are not part of the judiciary. This has its positives and its negatives. This brief bill is otherwise very meaningful. It is a real test of whether there are not only individual groups in the National Assembly who claim to be Euro-Atlantics, that they respect European values and swear on them, but whether, when it comes time to apply a fundamental European value, the rule of law, whether justice is applied in practice or whether we will look for a way out of the track of European integration. I'm making a political statement right now. I'm not just here as a lawyer. My political statement has a certain message. The message is to do our job as representatives of the Bulgarian people so that in Bulgaria there will be less corruption and those who break the law to be punished and all of us to live a more peaceful and better life. It's our job as politicians. Several arguments, however, on the substance of the Bill. As already mentioned, this is not about creating a separate structure within the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office that we should look for its place somewhere between the Bulgarian court whether it corresponds to our judicial card or not. We have a very clear European regulation, a regulation with direct, immediate effect, we have a decision of the College of the European Prosecutor's Office which enables and encourages Member States to create such organisational autonomy so that European prosecutors can do their job. Next, we have a need, which arises from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, unfortunately, is not a body that achieves results, especially when it comes to corruption on the high levels of power and detection of fraud with EU funds precisely because the national authorities do not achieve results in these areas, and the creation of a European body is necessary. There are several important moments in this bill. In addition to setting up an organizational unit, which is headed by a head with administrative functions, which I stress here, he is not the head of the European Delegated Prosecutor, he has coordination functions, but he is the head of the administration, which will provide the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutors. Next, there is a possibility for European delegated prosecutors to request permissions to use special intelligence means so that they can actually do their job. From our experience to date in solving crimes with European funds, we know how difficult it is sometimes to prove fraud without the application of special intelligence resources. But we cannot place the European Prosecutor and the investigation which he heads and directs depending on the will of national prosecutors who want such funds. Next, it is extremely important that the Law regulates coordination, interaction with investigative bodies, according to the Bulgarian law. Those bodies which must effectively support the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutor. And in any of these fundamental elements of the legislative proposal, I see neither unconstitutional nor contrary to European law. On the contrary, we have the creation of structures to ensure the activities of the European delegated prosecutors so that we can see their work in conclusion, effectively have criminal sentences issued by the Bulgarian courts. So, in conclusion, really adopting this law, I hope that it will receive support, not just from the ruling majority parties. I hope, however, that opposition colleagues who claim to support the European Prosecutor's Office will also support this bill, because its aim is to protect all of us, as Bulgarian citizens, Bulgaria, our funds and European funds, to spend transparently, in the interests of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u217	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Are there any lines, colleagues? Danny Kanazireva for first. Hamid Hamid and Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u218	Mr. Slavov, I was impressed by your statement in the part about doing our job. It is very important that we do it, but it is important that we do it the right way and not distort another bill that is being tabled. And colleagues, one more thing, and to Mr. Slavov specifically, do not be confused that you are creating something, because of all your statements I understand. You create nothing, the European Prosecutor's Office has been created and you know the number of the regulation. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] And the regulation is mandatory, don't replicate me from place, gentlemen of Change. And the regulation is binding on all member states, so don't get confused, you haven't created anything, it's already created. You have to put it into effect, and you can't even do it the way you signed it. From what I understand, it is that, first of all, you do not know how to pass into the Law so that you can secure your own structure, and so you wrote it that you are in conflict with both the Regulation and the Constitution. Secondly, I have learned from the Change that the principles in the Constitution are not absolute. They are absolute to us, but unabsolute to them. And thirdly, I understand, colleagues, even my colleague didn't know she was a lawyer, my respect, but I beg you very much, make a distinction between national prosecutors and delegated prosecutors. And the delegated prosecutors in question that they are part of it are also national prosecutors. Don't mix the concepts. Mr. Slavov, last time. You are very pleased that the interaction between investigating officers and delegated prosecutors is arranged. Such agreements shall not be signed by those delegated prosecutors. There is a specific text with a clearly written text of who has what representative power and these European delegated prosecutors do not have such representative authority to sign such agreements as you have placed, I think, in § 12 and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Professor Mihailov also asked for a reply, so Mr. Enchev, Mr. Hamid, find out amongst yourselves who to take the second. Okay, you'll stay for the last one. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I'm the only one outside of the legal expertise who's gonna take a stand. Dear Mr. Slavov, allow me from a human perspective to congratulate you. I don't want to make remarks to ladies I like and respect, but the tone makes the music, the Germans say. It is very important to remember it when we go out to parliament to talk and to insult someone in the most pythonian way, I can say an epithet. We know very well what was created and where the European Prosecutor's Office was created. We create conditions for her work on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It's crystal clear, and whoever doesn't like it, things are seriously stinking up there. That's the truth in this whole debate that's been rolling for an hour and a half here and it's crystal clear from everyone where things are going, who's against who and what's against him. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[(Unique applauses from the BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u221	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. For the third line, Mr. Hamid or Mr. Enchev? Mr. Enchev, you have the floor. Then Dimitar Gochev is recorded for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Slavov, I have long been monitoring the work of the Bulgarian Democratic Republic, before other names, in the area of overcoming the current Prosecutor General and creating any possible obstacles of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to do its job and to create some parallel structure. At the beginning of your speech, you said that we refused to support it. We have not refused yet, we have not yet voted, and we hope with common efforts to do something meaningful to help the Republic of Bulgaria go the right way. And Mr. Zarkov is right about the big helmet. He probably means tennis, but on the etropole end of a big helmet is something else. [[Laughter]] We usually violate either the Constitution or the Bulgarian laws. From another point of view, we manage to transpose directives and rules so that we are Europeans, but we are not always that way, as Ganyo said. So this time we somehow manage to break both of them. Maybe in your backside you'll say that's not true, but I think we can manage this time to break them both, one way or the other, we can do it. For Brussels and how many signals and how, you see, we most need Europe to come and fix us. I had the pleasure of working in European structures, in the European Parliament, and I would like to say to the whole House that I was impressed by a leading footage from OLAF, who said: "It is good that you have you, the Bulgarians, because we might have had a terrible little job. And to the young colleague, I mean, in all of these signals, maybe somewhere deep in our people's psychology is that we melt ourselves and end up taking it out on each other. Today there's one, tomorrow it's you. That's it, Mr. Slavov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u223	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are for the coat, Mr. Slavov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u224	Thanks, guys, for the lines. In fact, I have completed my speech in the hope that also my opposition colleagues, who I believe really support the establishment of a working structure of the European Prosecutor's Office, will also support the bill. Based on the arguments whether we are entering some kind of collision with European and national law. More than a month ago, and here Minister Yordanova can share, in a meeting with the European Prosecutor General Mrs. Koveshi, Mrs. Koveshi herself said that Bulgaria has the chance to establish a good practice in how to settle the European Delegated Prosecutors' Unit. That is, the European Prosecutor General himself promotes the legislative amendment that we have made, which is presented as a positive step in ensuring autonomy, in the independence of these European prosecutors. I trust Mrs. Koveshi's intuition and professionalism that we are really trying to do something important, something that will result and in very few cases Bulgaria can be an example for the other European countries. In this case, it can be an example. Let us not miss this opportunity to be a positive example for other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u225	Thank you, Professor Slavov. The colleague Gochev is giving up his speech. Peter Petrov, come in, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! During the past few years, a mantra from "Democratic Bulgaria" has been carried out that you see, with Laura Kovesi's appointment as European Prosecutor General in the autumn of 2019, an effective investigation of crimes against Bulgaria related to EU funds will begin. This mantra has dried up because it has been seen that nothing like this has happened, and now the Reformers, supported by the Change, have come up with a new genius idea, namely to create a competitive independent structure in the prosecution, which is subject to the European Prosecutor's Office on the grounds that a European regulation must be implemented and that this group of rescue groups of European prosecutors will effectively investigate all these crimes, which were said to be carried out in Bulgaria in a destructive European environment. This legislative change takes place in one of the most insolences since in art. 139a, which is yet to be established, this bailout office, European prosecutors, delegated European prosecutors, will be led by a leader who will be independent and who will, of course, report to the European Prosecutor's Office. It is not only this that the crimes will be investigated and reported according to the discretion of the management of this European Prosecutor's Office, regardless of how those who speak before me call it an administrative manager or not. Well, he's also the D.A.'s administrative head of the D.A.'s office in general. This creates a dual structure, a competitive prosecutor's office, an uncontrolled structure in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and data about this are found in the transitional and final provisions of this bill, where these European delegated prosecutors are given independent powers, both in the Law on Special Intelligence, both in the Criminal Procedure Code and in the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. And not only that, on top of that, the Bulgarian Supreme Judicial Council will pay the bill for this, as it is written in the Bill that the funds for the activities of this new competitive prosecution will be paid by the budget of the Supreme Judicial Council or so I understand. In fact, I think that in one person's dreams, he would like to have the telephone number of this administrative manager, as they call it, and be able to analyze with him, have a constructive dialogue, make strategies for their application for zero tolerance for corruption, which has already been spoken, which they are waving as a major slogan of their political party. Unfortunately, colleagues, this bill is another expression of the refusal of national sovereignty and contradicts the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, what is being offered to us will by nothing lead to some judicial reform which has been given to us by the ruling majority that it should be done. What's really going on? With this bill, importers from the Council of Ministers say the following that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office obviously does not work and we need other competitive structures to investigate these crimes. A short time ago, it was also mentioned by a ruling coalition spokesman. In fact, what they represent as judicial reform is a very bad sign to the Bulgarian society. A bad sign with which they say the Bulgarian institutions do not work. And since we, as reformers and a ruling majority, are unable to reform them, we prefer to bypass them, bypass them by creating a rescue group of European prosecutors who are not subject to any control. This is, of course, contrary to the absolute principle of application of art. 126 of the Constitution, which you, the ruling coalition, have dominated and replaced with some agreements that, according to the Bill, will be signed between the Interior Minister and the so-called delegated prosecutors, for example, so that crimes can be investigated. We're already in agreement to investigate these crimes. In fact, it is normal to use an agreement because for you everything is a deal and the most normal thing in the right is the deal to be subject to an agreement. However, unfortunately, the fight against crime cannot be done with deals and agreements to investigate a certain type of crime. If there is a problem in the prosecution, it should be solved within the prosecution itself, and not by creating a competitive structure for which even importers, notice, offer the creation of their own administration, proceedings and registration. In my opinion, the Council of Ministers has no idea of investigating crimes in Bulgaria, because whether this prosecutor is a European Delegated Prosecutor or a national prosecutor, they both work with the same investigative bodies in the Ministry of Interior, the Investigation, the DANS. And what are you trying to say with this bill? All of these authorities have not worked well so far, however, at one point, by putting prosecutors in a new form and calling them European delegated prosecutors, suddenly they will work in unique sync with their subordinate bodies in the investigation. And although the prosecution is a hierarchical system, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, we do not need to follow this model, but as we believe it does not work and you have criticism of it, we will make a competitive structure, which, I repeat, will work with the same authorities in the Ministry of Interior, in the DANS, in the Customs, in the Investigation. How do you think that's gonna happen with a magic wand all of a sudden? I think colleague Zarkov just mentioned that changes in the PPC are also needed. They are necessary, but they are not going to happen in practice, to tell you because there is no way to ignore the current centralised chain of command control that has the national prosecutor's office in relation to investigations. You know, the appeal of the lower prosecutor's acts to the upstanding prosecutor, before the upstairs prosecutor to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, for example. How will this thing be implemented in practice by creating a new competitive prosecution? Who will control her acts? Dear colleagues, this bill, unfortunately, I find it absurd and there is no way to support it from our parliamentary group. To prove his absurdity to you, I will now make some proposals in the form of ideas to the Democrats who wish to reform the judiciary. When you are going to make a European competitive prosecution in the national prosecution system, then let's make and import European delegated police officers, European delegated staff of the DANS, we can make even a single bill in order to fully implement this regulation, a European delegated court that investigates only and only crimes involving theft of EU funds. Why don't we offer it? We may even go further to bring in a European Delegated Minister of Justice, with all due respect, who will deal with reforming this particular part of the prosecution, which you have newly created. Because, honourable Members, I am sure you will agree with me that sooner or later this new structure of European delegated prosecutors will also need reforms. Because, otherwise, how are they going to wave their election program from "Democratic Bulgaria" if they are not going to talk about reforms in this part of the prosecution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u227	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? Mr. Georgiev for the first, Peter Kulinski for the second. Colleagues from DB Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dimitrov, find out about the third one of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject is very interesting and very responsible. I am not prepared because I am not a lawyer, but I will give you only two examples of why this draft law should be adopted. Examples in the field of environmental protection. 2020 - 2021 Two of the same companies are draining under Operational Programme "Environment" through the Ministry of Environment 305 million. lv. Signals were sent to the former Minister of the Environment. We've alerted the D.A. No response. We signaled in Brussels and they started moving from there. There's an investigation going on right now. The other example, for some, may be banal, related to that person, Prokopiev, who brutally violated the Underground Treasures Act, which brutally violated the concession treaty. And when we alerted the D.A. that they were being committed, I bravely say, crimes, the D.A. ruled that there was no crime. And it wasn't until the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry took the attitude and issued a signal that violations were committed that the concession of this person was terminated. Be careful you who are in this matter. There are plenty of examples that our prosecutors do nothing, and it is imperative that we adopt this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u229	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Kulenski, you have the floor for the second line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! Dear colleague Petrov, I cannot agree with the suggestions you have tried to make that we are creating a parallel structure in the prosecution. On the contrary, we are not creating any structure at all. The European Prosecutor's Office has been established under a regulation. The only thing we do with these changes in the Law on the Judiciary is to ensure the normal administration, the normal functioning of European delegated prosecutors in Bulgaria and their financial independence in carrying out their activities. If you have any obstructions to the people who create parallel structures in the judiciary, perhaps you should turn to GERB, who once set up the specialized court and prosecution, which we closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u231	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Petrov, colleagues! Mr. Petrov, I have a feeling you've missed the debate so far. The colleagues from GERB explained very precisely and clearly that we are not creating anything a zero, and that everything has already been created by Europe, there is a regulation on this thing which regulates how this prosecution works and so on. You've been explaining to us for five minutes that we're creating some parallel structure that has actually been created and created in Europe. At the moment, the only thing we decide is how to work in Bulgaria this prosecution, how to work without being prevented and to create an administration for it. I understand that you had to repeat what your leader said about who we should bring in and not bring in, but you are a lawyer, a penalist, and you should not speak like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u233	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Georgiev, I just didn't hear a question. Colleague Kulenski, Art. 139a, which you are creating, on this parallel structure, you are placing her with a boss, a leader who is out of control and who, if she decides not to have absolutely no interaction with the management bodies of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to act independently. That's what you do with this bill. To the colleague from "Democratic Bulgaria." However, I would like to point out to him that in the Transitional and Final Provisions of this bill you are creating the possibility for this parallel structure, this bailout service of the European Prosecutors to derail, by giving it powers under the PPC, under the Law on Special Intelligence and under the Law on the Protection of classified information, to act completely independently and uncontrollably on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. And it is so that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will no longer investigate certain crimes committed on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and these crimes will investigate them through the changes and powers you give them under the PPC, under the Special Intelligence Act and under the Law on Protection of Classified Information, other prosecutors who will report them somewhere else. Greater refusal of national sovereignty and greater contradiction of art. 126 of the Bulgarian Constitution I cannot find. That is why I said that we cannot support this bill, because if the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office needs reforms, they must be done. We started with our bill, which allowed temporary removal of the Attorney General in cases where disciplinary or criminal proceedings were initiated against him. We brought it in on December 7th, still aged somewhere, an honourable ruling majority. On the other hand, the bill we are looking at now, submitted on May 27th, has already received a fast track, and we are already looking at it in plenary, even though we are talking here about the Law on the Judiciary. With this dual standard and this dual practice that you apply, you do not make any judicial reforms. You are simply doing a mimicry of judicial reforms, which has led not only to the fall of the government, but will lead to new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u235	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. To make a statement, please, Peter Kulenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Zero tolerance for corruption is the motto with which we from "Keep the Change" have come to the political stage and which we observe to this day. Fighting corruption is the red line that we have not crossed and will not cross. That is why we from "Keep the Change" our parliamentary group will support the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary because we believe that they are an important step in the fight against corruption. Basically, I've heard a lot of arguments so far that we're almost creating some parallel structure. I mentioned it in my colleague Petrov's line earlier. I'll take the liberty of saying it again. We create absolutely no parallel structure, the European Prosecutor's Office is established under a regulation. What we are doing is some changes that will essentially guarantee a high degree of administrative and financial independence for European delegated prosecutors in investigating crimes of abuse of euro funds. Namely, the amendments to the Law will enable European delegated prosecutors to obtain their own business, regardless of that of their own prosecution, which will reduce the possibility of leaking information in the relevant files and, of course, their own budget, which will guarantee a financial independence of these same prosecutors and will enable them to determine the personnel and administrative resources themselves, and not to rely on one in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. And last but not least. I heard a lot of arguments, especially from colleagues from GERB, against the adoption of the bill. I understand why they're so sore. Perhaps because there will finally be independent prosecutors who will investigate the relevant crimes within their scope, and those who may have participated in the illegal embezzlement of EU funds can become the subject of criminal prosecution. We have a lot of examples of the past here. Those were the abuses of the so-called saga houses for mother-in-law, a rural development programme and other operational programmes that we all hope will receive proper attention from the investigating authorities already. Last but not least, evident from the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, these legal amendments are not at all liked by GERB's friend Mr. Ivan Gesev, the man with the five-year expertise, who so far has managed to successfully stretch political umbrellas in a number of investigations. So, colleagues, this is a small step that we are taking today with the adoption of this bill, but we believe that this is actually a huge step in the fight against corruption and we will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u237	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. For replicas.. Emil Georgiev, Petar Petrov and Danny Kanazireva. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is just to finish what I had to tell Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u239	Mr. Georgiev, you can take a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u240	My fellow Members, I am alerting you again in connection with the adoption of this law. In advance, I am telling you that there is a change in the Law on Device in the Area, where certain NGOs will get to the prosecution again. They are trying to get us into a very difficult scheme. Therefore, I ask you to adopt this law, because this will be a barrier to the experience of such people who, under the decent pretense that they love nature, are ready to commit new crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u241	And thank you, Mr. Georgiev, but let us still follow some order of speech. The lines must be to the person who makes the statement. Mr. Georgiev, you could have taken your own speech and made your own statement. Mrs. Kanazireva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kulenski, clichés, clichés and only clichés and common tales. I don't know who's writing you these literary writings, but they're starting to exhale. Some of them will be interesting, and believe me, people have already started to lose interest in this general talk. I, when I took the floor and told you: I will fully speak expertly. Nothing political. On the contrary, I started by saying that it is important the bill that the Regulation regulates the European Prosecutor's Office. Yes, we must create conditions for the work of delegated prosecutors, but the way in which you do so is contrary to the regulation in specific texts that I quoted you and, respectively, the Constitution. 126, para. 1. You told me that the principles in the Constitution are not absolute. From the very beginning of your emergence and management you gas and laws, and regulations, and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. When I repeated to you from this tribune and in the Legal Committee several times that in the Law on the Judiciary, the quota principle is unconstitutional, you still voted on it. Today, the Constitutional Court tells you that it is unconstitutional. [[Noise and lines.]] I beg you very much without any space. The only thing I've ever said about ZB is that the quota principle is unconstitutional, and so it is. The President knows very well what my proposals were in the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u243	Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u244	Clichés, general talk and nothing to the point. Gas laws, regulations and Constitution. And Mr. Kulenski, tell me in this regard, not to talk to me again about who the prosecutor was. Just so you know, delegated European prosecutors do not start or start their work from your bill. They are already created and they work and perform their functions. So that kind of fear, there's absolutely no fear, and that's not the essence. You're wrong. You're wrong about legal concepts, you're wrong about bills, you're wrong about Constitution. Learn and then import. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u245	Mr. Petrov, come in for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues Kulenski, your speech has only proved what I just said that your concept of the entire bill is wrong. You say this bill must be passed because we need independent, investigative bodies. Some of ours are now independent, they're not doing their job well, and now we're gonna make them independent with a special rescue service that I rephrased, and they're gonna be able to do a quality investigation, at least that's what I understand, and they're gonna be able to investigate and solve all these crimes, respectively, to a court. If we have problems in the investigation and in the investigative bodies, then we should solve them here and not make it easier for the activities of a competitive structure, creating powers for it again, I say in the NPC; in the Law on the SRS; the Law on the Protection of qualified information to make it so that it is out of control. The lack of control, which is not regulated by this Bill of yours, will only lead to a distortion of an activity that you hope to be independent now, because in your opinion the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is not independent. What about eight months where you were? Why didn't you introduce the relevant legislative changes that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, if you think it is not independent, because at least 10 times you said that the new authorities will be independent and that exactly we need them, why didn't you make the relevant legislative reforms, a colleague, so that we can now talk that we have a really working Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office? No, you're just doing bypasses. You say: we will empower more and more and more the European Prosecutor's Office so that crime can be investigated here in Bulgaria, with which, unfortunately, I cannot agree. And I will only quote for the last time the words of your leader from December 17th before Panorama, a freshly elected prime minister who says: "We must put people in the prosecution and KPCONPI, who do not have any brakes to check every thief in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u247	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You don't have group time anymore, you know. Here you go, Mr. Kulenski, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear replicators, thank you for the lines you've given me. I'll start with Mr. Petrov's line. Mr. Petrov, I think that in the reply to you and in my speech I said very clearly that the purpose of this bill is to create conditions for the work of the European delegated prosecutors in Bulgaria. The scope of the crimes investigated by the European Prosecutor's Office is different from those which could investigate the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. So, you know that these crimes about the abuse of euro funds under the regulation are exclusively conferred powers on the European Delegated Prosecutors, so our job is once again to create the best conditions for their functioning, for the carrying out of investigative actions within the territory of Bulgaria. To Mrs. Kanazireva. I don't see her in the gym, but I'm still gonna make my ass out of her. She was talking about clichés and talk. In her line of speech, as well as her statement, I heard the word "unconstitutionality" probably more than 20 times. So I also think she's using clichés. And whether a bill is unconstitutional or not, it is ultimately not up to us to decide. You know, the Constitutional Court decides. So if you refer to the Constitutional Court, it will rule and we will finally see whether this bill was unconstitutional or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u249	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Hamid, come in for a statement. Then Mr. Krum Zarkov and then Mrs. Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, it is becoming a really good debate and I will start by encouraging the Minister of Justice for the submitted bill. Let us say that, as Mr. Balachev was right, he was right and Mr. Zarkov was right and Mr. Slavov There are two ways to do this, colleagues. Whether through a structure, a relatively independent structure, a functional and administrative structure, as proposed by this bill, but, unfortunately, not through the SEW. Next time, we'll make a technical link through the ZSV. The Ministry of Justice in the Council of Ministers uses the approach with a separate structure. Therefore, I do not accept Mr. Slavov's words that there is no separate structure within the prosecution. As Mr Kulenski said, we are not making any structure, on the contrary we are making a structure of the European Prosecutor's Office with our administrative and functional autonomy and two are signs that you cannot deny them. Firstly, that there is an administrative manager and secondly, that structure is an authorising officer, i.e. the very disposition of budget funds is the most clear indication that this structure is autonomous in its nature. We have already heard several arguments for unconstitutionality regarding the Road map. However, I am going to tell you something that has not been mentioned in this debate - more arguments for unconstitutionality - and these are not my arguments. These are the arguments of the Constitutional Court and these are much deeper arguments when the structure, organisation, activity and functions of constitutionally regulated institutions and bodies are changed by law. I'm not brave enough to say which law is unconstitutional and who isn't. Indeed, Mr. Slavov spoke in committee as well, and I think here in the Chamber that in the quota distribution of judges and prosecutors from the specialized administrations there is nothing unconstitutional, so I will not speak to Angro. I will quote Decision No 3 of April 2003, however, Mr. Slavov. I think you know him, you know him perfectly well. This is precisely the judgment of the Constitutional Court that, when the structure, organisation and operation of constitutionally regulated bodies and institutions are changed, this constitutes in itself a form of change of government, constitutional rules of government. I advise all colleagues to carefully read this decision of the Constitutional Court. It is fundamental to our legal system and to our regulation as a whole. Here's just one sentence from there: "Inextremely related to the form of government that would change is if the structure, formation and functions of the units of the judiciary and the status of its bodies, including the higher constitutionally established positions, are changed. This will be the case, for example, in the merger of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and so on and so forth. In his operative, this decision says: The term of government within the meaning of art. 158, p. 3 of the Constitution should be interpreted extensively. This concept is defined not only by the nature of the state as a parliamentary or presidential republic or monarchy, it includes what was built by the Grand National Assembly through a number of constitutional texts which further develop the parliamentary system of higher state institutions: the National Assembly, President, Vice President, Council of Ministers, Constitutional Court and the bodies of the judiciary, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Judicial Council, their existence, their place in the respective authority, the organization, the conditions, the manner of their formation and mandate. That is, if we agree to support this approach by creating such an independent body within the prosecution itself, okay, we should do so, but we should do so with the amendments of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The place of this body is in Chapter "The Judicial System" of the Constitution itself. However, the same Decision No 3 of 2003 states whether the General National Assembly could make this constitutional change. And here the answer is categorical: "This change should be made by the Grand National Assembly" because it concerns the change of government in the extension interpretation within the meaning of Decision No 3 of 2003. The reasons say: "It is unacceptable for the National Assembly to make a change in the organisation, functions and status of the main constitutional bodies implementing government, as well as the balance between them. Therefore, Mr. Slavov, we support the system of European prosecutors in one way or the other, but not in this hybrid way. I mean, if we follow this path, we have to do it in the Constitution. If we follow the other path that you will have the opportunity between first and second reading to do it, first change the terminology a little and change the functionality of this body a little bit. The European Prosecutor's Office could then be settled as a technical unit within the EPPO and then there would be no need to change the Constitution in this chapter on the judiciary. Therefore, at the risk of not supporting unconstitutional texts, we will not support this bill. I respectfully say that to the Minister. But if you take these actions between first and second readings, at second reading the texts will most likely receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u251	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. For a replica, associate professor Slavov. Expected. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u252	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Hamid, you started well with Decision No. 3 of 2003, but if you read one of the special opinions then to the President of the Court of Justice Rumen Jankov, who has already died, Judge Rumen Yankov, what does he say about Decision No. 3 of 2002 itself? I will tell you, I quote literally: With this decision, the Constitutional Court distributes indulgences and retains a status quo, taking on the role of an oracle. But there are two other decisions that you did not quote, but are directly related. The first is Decision No 3 of 2004, in which the Constitutional Court defines the relationship between European Union law, constitutional law and national law, and Decision No 8 of 2005, whose operative I will quote, because it is directly relevant to what you have said. It says the following: "Changes in the Constitution, concentrated within the judiciary, which are aimed at restructuring, optimizing from a meaningful point of view, clarifying individual functions of its bodies, setting accents, specifying their powers or names, and their interaction with institutions of other authorities, do not constitute a change in the form of government and can be carried out by the National Assembly if they do not violate the balance between the authorities and respect the basic principles on which the constitutional model of the state is built. However, Mr Hamid, neither Decision No 3 of 2003 nor Decision No 8 of 2005 are relevant to this case and question that you are asking. Why? Because the European Public Prosecutor's Office exists under a European regulation and is governed by the Lisbon Treaty. That is, we have both in the primary law of the European Union and in the so-called secondary law framework of this issue. This regulation is direct, with immediate, direct, direct effect in our legal system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We do not need to go through amendments to the Constitution in order to achieve the action of this regulation in national law. Otherwise, it means breaking one of the fundamental principles of European law, formulated in 1962 and 1964 with the two key decisions. So let us remain in the field of European Union law, on the one hand, and see what the Law on the Judiciary actually governs, as proposed in the Bill, and it is nothing but to create the organisational opportunity of European delegated prosecutors to do their job quality. That's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u253	Thank you, Professor Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u254	This is not about dislocating powers and transferring functions and violating the principles of the Constitution. Thank you. [[Unique applause by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u255	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Guys, is there gonna be a second line? I won't. Mr. Hamid, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, first of all, the particular opinion of Judge Rumen Yankov is before me and it begins with the fact that the opinion refers only to eligibility and has absolutely no bearing on the nature of the case itself, so you may be referring to the particular opinion of the other Judge by Judge Tomcheva, I think it was. On the contrary, the organisation and activities of the prosecution itself are being violated. A separate structure, an administrative manager, an independent administration and an independent budget and an independent body shall be broken down when an independent body is established. So there is no way to say that the activities and structure of the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Bulgaria are not violated. I told you: let's do it as a technical unit or do it as a real independent unit, but with a change in the Constitution. In both cases, you will receive the support of the Members of the National Assembly from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Because unlike all the others, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has prepared constitutional texts, met with all the parliamentary groups. First, even Mr. Gurov and I had the honour to see each other and he received our project, but then not a word from him or you, and there we wanted to arrange the place of the prosecution, the control of the Attorney General and all these issues that society puts in the work of the judiciary and in particular of the Prosecutor General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u257	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate, although for some, is extremely important. He's important with what's said and what's not said. It is important, perhaps even a little more important than the bill itself, which, as was remembered just a while ago, should not be quite such passions, as it was about the creation of a structure which is basically exhausted by registering and filing. That's what I'm talking about. But why is the debate important, and why are these lyrical sometimes deviations, in my opinion, worth noting? Firstly, because of what has been said, and I will try to respect the opposition as much as possible by giving a brief and, hopefully, clear answer to most of their concerns. The first thing that is said about the so-called parallel structure or surrounding structure, or the competing structure, shows a certain misunderstanding of the idea of the European Prosecutor's Office, which was actually made not to compete or be parallel, but to work independently from national ones. Basically, the idea is quite simple to understand. The European Union has considered that, since it is common means, it is necessary to have general supervision over them, for the simple reason that the countries that may abuse them have an interest and can be expected to have an impact on national authorities. This idea was the subject of a 10-summer discussion in all countries and many of the arguments that sound here also sounded in other national parliaments because of the natural and understandable reason that the legal community is conservative and keeps its own powers. But this debate was resolved in Bulgarian legislation two years ago. The next one remained open: how to become effective. It has been mentioned that this is the European Prosecutor's Office, and what is the European Delegated Prosecutor? There is also, I think, a certain misunderstanding, and here I address the parliamentary group of aging, which has created the impression that these are almost some foreign prosecutors. No, no, these are Bulgarian prosecutors. These are Bulgarians and Bulgarian prosecutors. The structure of the European Prosecutor's Office is quite clear, there is a central European Prosecutor, a College that is a supervisory authority and where there is a representative of each Member State and in each Member State European delegated prosecutors who are national prosecutors. That's where most of the troubles and misunderstandings come from eventually. In Bulgaria these European delegated prosecutors should be 10, they are actually only 9, because we have quite difficult broadcasts and continues to be unoccupied, at least as far as I know. I also want to inform you that they have a lot of work to do, because they have been referred to more than 120 times, how much I know, and they may have become more. I mean, they've got a lot of work to do, they need that kind of help. Now there is really an administrative organizational character. Who says they control these people? First of all, like any other prosecutor's control, the most important thing is the control of the court, of their acts. This is the Bulgarian court. And with regard to administrative control the topic is so important in the Bulgarian society, it is, and this is the second difficulty, is made by the College and the European Prosecutor General, not as it is in the Bulgarian system of the Bulgarian prosecutors by any administrative supervisor leading to the main one. And this was done with amendments tabled by the government of GERB and supported unanimously, which with special provisions removed European delegated prosecutors from the normal conditions of control in the Bulgarian legislation. Why is that, you say, not in any other country? Firstly, because in 29 countries the structure of the prosecution is not such as in Bulgaria. It's a debate. Secondly, it actually exists, but according to the specifics of each country it is done by internal organisational acts. We have decided to do so in the Law on the Judiciary, also because of the specifics of both the Bulgarian legal system and, let's face it, in the Bulgarian public debate. That's why! What does this law do? I've already mentioned: nothing much, it creates registration and filing. What is the role of the SJC Regulations, which is mentioned here and which would almost be imposed on Laura Koveshi, the Regulation and so on? That's not true. He does not deal with the issues of the Regulation. The regulation lays down the general structure and how the country will be organised internally so as to fulfil the terms of the regulation, the first of which is independence and autonomy, is our business and this will be done by these rules of the SJC. What is the role of the administrative director.. almost appeared that the second chief prosecutor will have. It's not true. 139a has described what she's going to do, basically she's going to be responsible for the bookkeeper. It can neither give the methodological guidance we are familiar with nor carry out the general supervision with which some of you are familiar with the work of the other eight colleagues. What's the budget and we're gonna pay for it? Yeah, we're gonna pay it the way we pay it now without that law. Because naturally, these Bulgarian prosecutors work with the funds of the Bulgarian judiciary and this is so with or without this law. In general, this whole debate was a great amalgam of concepts and regulations and constitutions and, in my opinion, it was worth talking about and being answered, but there is one thing that I think is keeping quiet: why is one so, in the end, harmless law, because it is a body that has already been created, or bodies that have already been created, awakened such opposition or so many passions and come so far? Because the big question is whether these European Delegated Prosecutors can work without one way or another keeping an eye on them by the Prosecutor General and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] That's what I'm talking about! That's the question! [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] And when they have their own business, it'll probably help them not to. Otherwise, they will work with the same investigative bodies and will appear before the same courts, but they will have that operational autonomy, or at least they will have more than they have so far, which the Regulation has spoken of. It is no accident that this bill was created in cooperation with the European Prosecutor's Office and is enjoyed, as far as I know, by its European support. In other words, the Bill is important, and with that I am ending, it must be supported. Without a doubt, there is something to be said about some concepts between first and second readings, and I hope that we will have an opportunity to do so, for example, here is the word "structural" that has created such severe debates, but there is nothing to be afraid of, it is nothing by chance. This is something that is ultimately continuing along the road that Bulgaria took a year and a half or two ago. It does not solve and will not replace all the problems of the Bulgarian judiciary in particular the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, but will at least make it possible for the European judicial system to function in Bulgaria, I would say, more European. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "Democratic Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u259	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Yordan Tsonev for the first line, Mr. Cholakov for the second. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I would not have dared to make a replica of such a wonderful lawyer as yourself if it had not been for the public debate and the applause you received on the right, regarding the control of the Attorney General. I want to ask you, first of all, what is the discourse of public debate in this direction? If the discourse of public debate is the discourse of a group of society and not the majority, yes, this group is 100, 200, 300, 500, 1000 people for example, conditionally speaking. If the discourse is: should the Constitution be circumvented because there, and not somewhere else, the functions of the Attorney General and the organization of the prosecution's work are defined, let us clarify it and you will clarify it as a wonderful lawyer, which I respect very much. However, if the discourse is to create attempts to circumvent constitutional authorities and their powers through laws, I claim that there is also such a discourse in society, and here in this plenary, and I will give you an example. Are you going to speak in the same way from this tribune about the KKCONPI draft law? And there's no attempt to circumvent it? Because this right here is the same thing as good intentions, we have to bring in a regulation, we have to create a structure. Of course, for everyone here in this Chamber, who we are dealing with law-making, it is clear that in every legislation there is one, second, third approach and they are visible, at least seen by experienced lawmakers, so I ask. Is that law not being circumvented, too, not creating a structure that absolutely cannot take away the powers given to only one body and one structure in Bulgaria by the Constitution? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In general, when we talk about the status quo, because there was also talk about the status quo of my respected colleague from DB, the Constitution is a status quo, a colleague, it is a status quo, and we keep this status quo. And if we want to change it, we do it in the proper way as we have proposed such a framework for the debate in society from this particular discourse that there is a need to change the powers, and the arrangements, and the structure of this body, and not to try through the backyard. There is a way. We therefore call on you to think about the highway roads for changes, not about the surrounding ones. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u261	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Zarkov! There is one text, I'm sorry if you've said it several times, but I'm going to repeat it to you, Mr. Zarkov, as a line or as a question, because you said you'd answer our questions, so if you don't mind this one. There's a text that I think is a litmus test. Lakmusov in the sense that we put into this concept. This is, in fact, in the framework of the Law on the Ministry of the Interior, amended by a new Act on the Law on the Ministry of the Interior. 7 in art. 15: The cooperation of investigative police officers with the structure of European delegated prosecutors shall be governed by an agreement between the Minister of Interior and the authorised head of the structure of European delegated prosecutors. I know that the legal level has fallen very much in recent years, including not only in Bulgaria, unfortunately, also in the European Union. I'm used to thinking or at least being taught that public law is a right to power and obedience. There, things are very clearly regulated. One has power, the other obeys. The word 'agreement' is, in principle, a concept of civil law where there are equal entities that agree or do not agree or agree or do not agree. I ask you very much to tell me: which branch of the right is it for the prosecutor to sign an agreement or the prosecution to sign an agreement with the Ministry of Interior, since the relations between the prosecutors and the Ministry of Interior are very clearly described in the Bulgarian legislation, and what if the Minister of Interior refuses to sign this agreement, that is to say how? I want to understand your legal thinking, you understand? We're obviously in some new virtual legal reality that I, I'm afraid, don't understand. I studied law many years ago, when it was in the right order, it made sense and it was clear what public law was, it was clear what administration was, it was clear what civil relations were. Right now, I'm afraid I'm unprepared for this new legal reality we're living in. My question is: the minister says: "I will not sign an agreement." What do we do?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u263	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Is there a third line? Mr. Enchev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Zarkov! Because you said it was a structure, a simple registering and filing, and nothing more, besides in the field of administrative law, I tried to explain to myself: is this an independent body, or is it not? And I wish you could help me in that direction, because besides registering and filing, we will undoubtedly have to make a secret register, an information security officer. Visible of everything, these nine prosecutors will have an administrative leader, perhaps he will only lead the secretary, but I still understand that he will also sign agreements with the Ministry of Interior, with Customs and, apart from that, this structure will have its own rules. We know that an office, by building a building, a supervisor, a rules of procedure, is an administration, apart from that, clearly from everything, will have a budget. Personally, I think we're starting to meet the requirements of an independent body somewhere. This is also my request: to help me in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u265	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For the coat, Mr. Zarkov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u266	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Replicators! Thanks for the lines. I will start with the questions of the gentlemen Cholakov and Enchev, as far as they are much easier to answer. I don't need to help you, dear Mr. Enchev. It's just in art. 139a, the current § 4, is described very clearly what it is about and whether it is an independent body or not. His independence does not come from this law. His independence of the authority, every European Delegated Prosecutor, as such, comes from the regulation that we translated into Bulgarian legislation two years ago. As for the agreements between institutions, firstly, there are dozens of them. I don't know if you're finding them now or not, but there are agreements between the D.A. and the Ministry of Interior, and there's practice what happens when the Ministry of Interior doesn't want to sign. You know, until recently, such agreements have been concluded to counter, for example, electoral violations. Minister Rashkov refused to enter into such an agreement last time, and by refusing, there is no such agreement. Can the European Delegated Prosecutor do this? Again in art. 139a, para. 1 this person is authorised by the European Public Prosecutor's Office to do these things, and this is agreed with the European Prosecutor's Office, i.e. these are two entities that enter into agreements, such as there are hundreds of thousands of institutions. I hear that behind you, Mrs. Kanazireva says it's not true. Perhaps you should ask the ministers around you who have concluded such agreements with other departments and ministries. And now the big question that Mr. Tsonev asked. Yes, I said the public debate, but I could say, "And our political reality." Isn't it absolute political reality not now, for years. You're an experienced parliamentarians, you remember them from the '90s, about the relations between the prosecution and the various ministries and departments, and different authorities. This is the Bulgarian political reality. And now that you're talking about bypassing, when you're talking about bypassing the problem... [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Listen to me, please! ... Your criticism would be true, but not for this law. Your criticism would have been true when it was found that the prosecution was not doing its work effectively on the confiscation of illegal property, for example, the KKCONPI was created, or when it was found that no conflict of interest was established.................................................................................. And I can continue with abbreviations from here until tomorrow. This behaviour of circumvention does not apply to this law, but it is a vicious practice, and I am one of the supporters of those who believe that the problem should be put where it is and not looking for paths. And one last thing. You said: "The Constitution is a status quo. " The Constitution announces to us that Bulgaria should become the rule of law, democratic and social state. Unfortunately, it's not a status quo yet, it's a struggle that's about to come. Our constitution is progress, not status quo. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u267	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, but please don't turn the procedure into a replica of the back, it won't be correct. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Let's see. Reprove me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u268	No. You again, Mr. Chairman, like to talk before you hear and be clever. On behalf of a parliamentary group, I'd like a 30-minute recess. I hope I didn't grieve you.! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u269	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Take 20 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u270	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Mrs. Alexandrova, you're signed up for a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Law proposes that European Delegated Prosecutors should be identified as an independent organisational structure in the prosecution to be led by a European Delegated Prosecutor authorised by the European Prosecutor's Office. The proposed provisions on the establishment of the structure, the activity of European delegated prosecutors and financial rules, we believe that they are contrary to the rules of Regulation (EU) 2017/1939. The Council Regulation of 12 October 2017 on the establishment of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is binding and should apply directly in all Member States, with the rules of the Regulation taking precedence over the domestic law of Bulgaria. In accordance with art. 8 of the Regulation, which I cited, the European Prosecutor's Office is an integral body of the European Union, which consists of a central office, colleagues and before me mentioned, at the seat of the European Prosecutor's Office and European Delegated Prosecutors established in the Member States, this central office consists of: the College, permanent chambers, the European Prosecutor General, the Deputy of the European Prosecutor-General, the European Prosecutors and the Administrative Director. The proposed amendments, which create a new organisational structure of the European Delegated Prosecutors in Bulgaria, contradict the Regulation, we believe from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, as the European Delegated Prosecutors are part of the European Prosecutor's Office and its structure. By establishing an independent unit of the European Delegated Prosecutors in the structure of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the independence of both the European Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Bulgaria is violated. Next, it must be borne in mind that each European Delegated Prosecutor is directly subordinate to the European Prosecutor's Centralised Unit and not to another Delegated Prosecutor. We also consider the proposal of the importer to be § 4 of the Project incorrect, according to which the head of the structure of the European Delegated Prosecutors is an authorising officer. The proposed § 4 is in complete contradiction with the provision of Article 4. 93 of the Regulation under which the budget of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is managed by its administrative director. As contrary to the budgetary procedure set out in Articles 90 to 95 of the Regulation, the conditions under which European Delegated Prosecutors in the country will be able to benefit from the budget of the judiciary may also be defined in the draft. Here I will only open a clamp: how will it be secured financially, when, for example, I give that in the budget which you voted on, you cut almost more than 20 million from the budget of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria? It is also unacceptable to define the proposal of the importer concerning the adoption of separate rules for the administration of European Delegated Prosecutors from the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, since all internal organisational rules are within the competence of the College of the European Prosecutor's Office, honourable Members, and the transfer of this competence to the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council constitutes a violation of the independence of the European Prosecutor's Office. And, yes, I do and I pay attention to the provision of art. 126, para. 1. I know I repeat myself, and many of my colleagues quoted it, but I am obliged to give a sign and attention to the Republic of Bulgaria. According to her, the structure of the prosecution is relevant to that of the courts, but given this constitutional provision, it is not clear which court's new unit will correspond. Let us not forget that the judiciary, under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, is independent, and one of the main functions of the prosecution, which is part of the judiciary, is to lead the investigation and to supervise the proper conduct of the investigation. In conclusion, I would like to sum up: all proposals relating to the establishment of an independent organisational unit of the European Delegated Prosecutors, the appointment of the administrative head of this unit, the granting of an independent budget of the judiciary budget in Bulgaria and the establishment of an independent administration of this unit contradict not only the EU Regulation 2017/1939, but also the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why I call on you not to support the proposed draft of the first vote, namely: Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary introduced by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Gochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, thank you for that speech. Maybe not a very long line. You said there was a violation of the independence of European prosecutors, as their organisation, budgeting and so on should happen at central level at the level of the European Prosecutor's Office. Here I would like to draw your attention to art. Paragraph 136. 8 of the Law on the Judiciary, according to which the European Delegated Prosecutors from Bulgaria are part of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and from this point of view it seems perfectly normal, logical and justified that it is also appropriate for the Bulgarian State to be able in some way to ensure the proper functioning of this part of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which we are currently doing with the offer and adoption of this law. The other thing that a lot of chewing gum in this debate is art. 126 of the Constitution. It is quite clear there that art. 126 speaks of prosecutors and judicial authorities. That is to say, for prosecutors and for persons who perform a judicial function and for courts, for bodies who perform a judicial function. We are not creating the prosecution right now, we are not empowering anyone to carry out an indictment function, and for this reason we have no way to talk about compliance at all. There is no principle of compliance when it comes to administration that would mean putting, if, say, six accountants in court, having six accountants in the prosecution, or if there are five bookkeepers in one institution, there are five bookkeepers in the other, right? That's what you're saying, quoting art. 126 of the Constitution obviously has nothing to do with the discussion. You have somewhat taken this topic into account that this principle should be applied without exception and that the Constitution does not provide for exceptions to this principle, but it is clear that it provides for such an exception. It is also the way in which the judiciary is currently operating, as there are 36 district prosecutors, but 133 district courts. So obviously this is a principle and I stress it again for all colleagues from GERB, some of whom are not here, that it is about a principle that is not absolute, which means that it is a principle from which there are exceptions and they are written in the Constitution and in the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u274	Mr. Zhelyazkov, would you like a second line? No. Is there someone else? Mrs. Alexandrova, the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gochev, thank you for the line. That is what I wanted to say: yes, for me and for our parliamentary group there will be perhaps a violation of art. 126, para. 1, because you are creating a whole new structure, as I quoted in my speech. Oh, by the way, I apologize for deviating, but just to sneak in: we also gave a sign at the Bill you accepted for closure of the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, if you remember. I remember from this tribune I said: yes, it is necessary to change this law, yes it is so you have a majority to accept it, but do it properly. The quantum principle of reassigning judges and prosecutors was clear then that it was unconstitutional, and now, thank God, and the Constitutional Court ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The next one is Mr. Cholakov. Is he in the gym? [[Heckling]] Okay, I get it. Mr. Tsvetan Enchev from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! I will speak in principle, as many things have been said both in one direction and in the other direction. We've heard arguments about and against. Thanks to Mr. Slavov and Mr. Hamid, we have also come to know much of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I also listened carefully to my colleague Petrov from rebirth, whom I deeply respect. [[Heckling]] Yes, Commissioner Petrov, this is the way things are when we are part of the European Union. Unfortunately, little by little, alone, slowly and slowly is a denial of sovereignty. Today it will be this, tomorrow it will be a single defense capability, unified public procurement for this and that, and we will gradually become a single market, as we already are, we will have a common currency and here the question really is: is this good for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian society and are we walking together in the same direction? As a convinced European, I am sure that this is the right direction for Bulgarian society. I suppose there are other opinions, of course, and I'm glad we can express them in this room and it should be so. From another point of view, with this bill, we are once again Bulgarians in our own European decision, which we use for our own purposes, and so purposefully, to bypass an existing structure and make one equivalent, will it be, will it be parallel to live and see, as older colleagues say, for every single thing we have accepted, it takes time to see how it works. If we accept what we are going to vote on today, we will give it time to see who was right, who was wrong and, for God's sake, there will be reformers here who will reform. I am impressed that we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have always stood in a position when something is done, to do it according to the law of the state. And as you have noticed, we have tabled a bill amending the Bulgarian Constitution and we believe that what we are doing today should have done it in the order and manner that is regulated in the Constitution. Perhaps there is a need for other changes to this law, perhaps there is a need for regulation of these already elected European prosecutors, perhaps they really need administration, a law firm, a secret law firm, a budget. With what we accept, whether they will become more self-sufficient, the majority colleagues will say here. I believe that and this is perhaps my fourth-fifth vote on a bill, which I do not agree with the way it is done and with the fact that we are stepping in and creating practice to solve some problems of society in one way, how to say it, not so elegant a way to help a cause that certain political forces have put themselves towards a natural person. Maybe I'm wrong. My dear colleagues, however, will not support me and my colleagues from the parliamentary group, this bill for the simple reason that I believe that we are acting against the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and against the rules that we create ourselves, and we should set an example of how to work. I am extremely worried that the independent prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will have an administrative leader, accordingly they will have rules, we will practically turn them into an independent administrative unit, which, at the request of the people who support this bill, obviously has to work in a certain direction. We shouldn't lightly say that a whole system, like the D.A.'s office, you see, doesn't work the way someone likes it or wants it. That's how we shut down the Special Court, and then it turns out that specialization isn't such a bad thing. That's how I guess we'll do it today. But, colleagues, again, let's not do it through the back door, on the side side, let's go in the order set in the Constitution, let's gather the corresponding majorities. These majorities are therefore envisaged in the Constitution to be complex in order to seek common will, to find consensus in order to be able to move forward. And indeed, let us not adopt such laws, which the Constitutional Court then has to repeal and therefore have to make new decisions in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u278	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Thank you. The next one is Mr. Nestorov, but you're running out of time, you don't have time for DPS. Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u279	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, colleagues, not only are we not afraid of the European Prosecutor's Office, our colleagues from the European Public Prosecutor's Office, we continue the Change and our government was the first government in Bulgaria to say that this regulation is useful and good and will be useful to the whole European Union and Bulgaria. Bulgaria was one of the leading countries, one of the three, as a matter of fact, the initiators of the establishment of this regulation. This work of our governments continued during the second and third cabinet and therefore we very much want this prosecution to work well, in accordance with the regulation, in accordance with the Constitution of the country. Ms. Alexandrova, if I am not mistaken, recalled the debates during the Law on the Judiciary, which also closed the specialized courts. I remember the debate with Mr. Slavov in which we explained these quotas to him. Today, the Constitutional Court ruled on them. Please, colleagues, and I insist when there is indeed an expert debate going on in this House right now. Then, when we say some things both from experience and from education, do not take everything as an attempt at sabotage. And I very much hope that between first and second reading, if this law is passed today, you will correct not a little text in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Come in for a line, Mr. Zhelyazkov, you have 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u281	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Draft Law proposes the creation of a creation that is sui generis, it is some kind of unsub. In the Regulation, the entities are delegated European prosecutors with the decentralised structure, who must, of course, carry the triad of the characteristic... to have experience, qualifications and, of course, their independence. What is offered with the Bill, Mrs. Zaharieva? You tried to affect this thing. First, a separate organizational structure. The structure cannot be the name of the administration and Mr. Zarkov correctly pointed it out. This is a budget organisation.. a budgeting organisation because the head is also an authorising officer within the meaning of the law. Moreover, it has been said that the head is in charge, organised, appointed and released, these are the powers of the head of an entity. [[Replyes: "Search, weather. "]] The question is who will carry the passive and active procedural legitimization? Who will be the plaintiff or defendant in the cases of the Head or the Organization itself? So, Mrs. Zaharieva, the conclusion is, is the independence of delegated European prosecutors going to the independence of a new body or its supervisor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u282	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, second line? We don't have time for our parliamentary group. I'm sorry. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Gochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Minister, Mrs Zaharieva, what I have learned from your speech is that you have rather, so to say, such a type of remarks to the bill that can be overcome by proposals between first and second readings. That is, now that we are discussing at first reading and therefore voting for the first time on the bill, I understand that you agree with its provisions in general and therefore I call on you, as well as the entire parliamentary group of GERB, to support the Law in principle and then to make your proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u284	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Mrs. Zaharieva, the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u285	Mr. Zhelyazkov, with this law, here I will indirectly respond to Mr. Gochev, the way his philosophy has been proposed, in fact an attempt is made to write the Regulation. It is one thing to create a unit, and other colleagues have said it from the opposition, which will help and in which I do not think that anyone in this House has any objection or at least one who has supported the adoption of this regulation is quite another, the way in which the entire philosophy of the Bill has been proposed. And several times they said false things that, with the exception of the prosecution, no one had objected. On the contrary, even if the Supreme Court of Cassation pays special attention, and it is an opinion written to the committees, that is, not under the Draft Law, not to create and refine the provisions, so as not to create an administrative structure Whether you will name the Head, the relevant Delegated Prosecutor, an administrative manager or a head with administrative functions, is exactly the same, colleagues. That was, I remember an argument with a colleague that we argued with if, if we named one thing an order, it would be an individual administrative act. Well, however we name it, its functions suggest the creation of a structure that contradicts the regulation. Also, because here I will indirectly respond to Mr. Cholakov, Krum Zarkov failed to respond to the agreement in question § 12. Mr. Rashkov himself writes to you, writes to Mr. Atanasov, to be honest, that he believes that the need for its creation should be considered at all. I continue: Because the interaction of investigative police officers with the European Public Prosecutor's Office is also largely settled in the PPC. So, colleagues, and Mr. Gochev, I don't think we will support the Bill at first reading, we will think, the group will decide, there is little time left. Why? Because unfortunately, our practice so far in this Parliament has shown that whatever we offer between first and second readings, and most benevolently, it is not accepted, colleagues, it is not accepted simply because it is proposed by the opposition. If we had accepted some of the things that we proposed between first and second readings, maybe we wouldn't have today... and there is this constitutional solution that announces some of the provisions on unconstitutional closure. We have proposed two options, not to mention that we have proposed deadlines, more clearly scheduled. So what should we offer now? We hear the same props every day: how we fear, how we do not want justice, how we are the mafia and what not. [[Replyes: "Search, weather. "]] So this is my answer to your lines and thank you for them and the opportunity to speak for another three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any other statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u288	Mr. Karadaye, the DPS doesn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u289	DPS always has time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u290	No, you don't have time for the bill. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47 202 01 25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022. Vote 166 MPs: 125 against 41, no abstentions. The bill has been passed. Here you are, Mr. Dilov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr Chairman, honourable colleagues! I voted against this bill not because I am opposed to having European prosecutors in Bulgaria and they investigating the abuse of European funds, but because this was another very bad parliamentary debate that blew up the opportunity for us to treat the Bulgarian society of legal nihilism, which has covered it and which has been for years. It would be wrong to say that only this parliament was pouring water into this mill, no, many parliaments were doing it. We again became convinced that texts that should be precise, professional, become victims of political games. We once again convinced ourselves that for a large parliamentary group, the largest, the Constitution is something like a railing when they are comfortable with it, when it is convenient for them to be away. In general, the whole impression that we leave is that I look not as a lawyer, I look at it as a person who explores public opinion, and sometimes it has influenced it for many years, and we leave the impression in people that we really, first of all, do not know what we are doing, second of all, we do not know why we are doing it, and the last thing we are interested in is the triumph of justice. And believe me, open the media and you will see that this is an issue more early for the Bulgarians from the war in Ukraine, from the energy crisis, from inflation. So to some extent, my vote was a vote of protest against what happened in the Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u292	Thank you. Negative vote, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! I voted against. Not that I am opposed to the idea of creating a structure of the European Prosecutor's Office, I voted against because of the debate even for those who did not want to hear the debate, it became clear that this type of important laws should be drawn up at a normal time and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria should be respected. But it is clear to us that the current power came with a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. He continues to reside on the field of politics, violating the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria daily, including this bill, which should be adopted at a normal time after normal discussion. But, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Atanasov, not the DPS has run out of time, the time of this wicked power is over. And on the eve of elections, a power that has lost confidence in both the National Assembly and in society and is trying arrogantly to impose laws in violation of the Constitution should not. Even more power that serves the behind-the-scenes of the oligarch and media, and energy boss in Bulgaria, power that was created at the malls, and today we see that in the back seats of some jeeps are trying again new constructions to make. That's not what I'm supposed to do! Therefore, at this time, our call is: let us go to some elections, have a serious, responsible behaviour before the elections, so that after the elections those who will be in the National Assembly can make those efforts to create, restore normality to politics, and at all restore democracy, restore statehood, and once and for all not leave with rematchism in violation of the Constitution, but instead create laws, respecting the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause from The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u294	He has the floor, Mr. Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u295	Mr. Chairman, we did not support this bill for a very simple reason. It does not meet the interests of Bulgaria and the independence of the Bulgarian judiciary. When the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office were discussed in this Chamber a few months ago, it was agreed to close down the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, we supported the government at the time because for us this was a good decision for the Bulgarian judiciary. At the moment, however, it is required of us as MPs to accept as normal that when there is a requirement of a European, Brussels bureaucratic unit to start ordering and having powers in our country, without any sanction from any Bulgarian institution, there should be accountability to any Bulgarian institution in no way, we at the age of no way can accept this thing. That is precisely why there is no way at the moment that we can support this bill, not just at the moment, but at the second vote, if it comes to this bill at all, to support it. Again, it is not a problem when reforms in the judiciary need to be made, it is not a problem when reform is needed, if there was at all the purpose of this majority that governs us until recently and is currently continuing in the last days of governance, when we have created a parliamentary committee for amendments to the Constitution, which has not been assembled once to make judicial reform in any pretext or way, we would have supported this thing. But at the moment to be required by the Bulgarian National Assembly to give power to Brussels bureaucrats, whatever they are, in any form whatsoever, to have no accountability of what they do, why they do it and what they do with the Bulgarian court and prosecution, we cannot agree. Yes, we will support reforms, most likely in the next parliament, not here and not now, no matter how much the government has proclaimed this until recently, but not in this form, which means denial of state sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u296	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My initial intention was to take part in the debate essentially, but it was over before that. I will therefore take this opportunity to say a few words by thanking you for your support. I think that today the majority supported at first reading an important bill which is in fulfillment of the obligations of the state to ensure the resourceful work of the European Prosecutor's Office on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is a bill supported by the European Public Prosecutor's Office and has a positive opinion from the European Prosecutor's Office and it has been assessed that these texts correspond entirely to Regulation No 1939/2017, namely the Regulation establishing the European Prosecutor's Office. The opinion is in the materials of the Bill. This year I had two consecutive meetings with Mrs. Laura Koveshi. At the first she raised a very important question: how Bulgaria will fulfill its obligation to create organizational conditions, good conditions for the work of European delegated prosecutors. I am going to make a clamp, and there is a lot of talk about the structure of the European Prosecutor's Office, but to remind you that it is acting at a centralized level and at a decentralised level. Decentralised level with European Delegated Prosecutors in the territory of each Member State. The administration of the European Public Prosecutor's Office shall serve only the European Prosecutor's Office on a centralised level. At a decentralised level, it is the responsibility of the Member States to provide resources. Also, the costs of the investigation are borne by the national states, only in exceptional cases by a decision of the European Prosecutor's Office. The investigation shall be carried out by the budget of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. And yes, this is the problem of the regulation, as with several others. But the regulation is in this form, and now we have to apply it. To go back to my first date with Mrs. Koveshi. She requested the support of the Bulgarian state so that the European Delegated Prosecutors would not fall into the following situation: to request the appointment of expertise and the Special Prosecutor's Office to refuse. This means that, in this way, organised work, we are in fact violating the regulation which requires the European Prosecutor's Office to act independently, to assist the national authorities and, accordingly, to coordinate the investigation with the national investigating authorities. This is what we decide with this bill. We give them the opportunity, we provide them administratively European delegated prosecutors, we provide them financially, we create good working conditions, that is, understand premises. We are not making a new state body, nor are we changing the structure of the European Prosecutor's Office. There is no such purpose as the Bill. And yes, we do restrict the powers of the Prosecutor General to the European Delegated Prosecutors, but we do so in the implementation of a specific text of the Regulation, and this is in art. 6 which says that European Delegated Prosecutors, that is to say, European Prosecutors cannot seek nor take instructions from any external to the European Prosecutor's Office at all. That is, colleagues, we are bringing our law into line with the law directly applicable. So thank you for your support. I listened very carefully to the debate and there are actually elements that need to be refined between first and second readings. Thank you for the suggestions, including Mr. Balachev's comment on the technical error in the provision of one of the points of the bill. So thank you again. The Ministry of Justice will actively participate in the debate to refine the provisions between first and second readings. Thank you. [[Applause from the... Democratic Bulgaria.... We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u298	And thank you, Madam Secretary. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u299	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I propose the term under art. 79, para. 1 for proposals to be reduced to 5 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u300	Thank you. Mr. Petrov, back offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope that all of you are aware of the seriousness when changes are being made to the Law on the Judicial Authority. The same cannot be made urgently, in an urgent order, especially when there has been such a serious debate at first reading. That is why I believe that the deadline should not be reduced, but should even be increased. So I will propose that the deadline be increased to 14 days at the very least so that relevant proposals can be made based on a specific analysis of what we are trying to do, as I think a lot of people in this House today seem to be unable to understand what is being done with this bill, what new powers are being given and what unaccounted for are being created. That is why I am making a reverse proposal - I even want the period between the first and second votes to be increased to 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u302	Thank you. We have made two procedural proposals regarding the deadline. The first one is Mr. Mateev's in five days. Please, voting mode. Vote 210 MPs: 108, against 92, abstention 10. [[Reply: "Prevoting! "]] It's a rethink mode. Vote 214 MPs: 110, against 93, abstention 11. The proposal for the 5-day deadline is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE HAZARD LAW. Two bills at one point. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-75, submitted by Deyan Petkov and a group of Members of Parliament on 17 June 2022, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-96, submitted by Lubomir Karimanski, Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihailov on 11 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined these bills. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u304	Mr. Karimansky, thank you. I'm sorry. Colleagues, the discussions on the sidelines, please don't let the President of the Commission get in the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u305	Thank you. The meeting was attended by representatives of: Ministry of Youth and Sports: Radostin Vassilev Minister; Ministry of Finance: Lyudmila Petkova On behalf of the importer, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-75, was presented by Deyan Petkov, who pointed out that the proposed changes enable the state gambling operator State enterprise In order to expand the portfolio of games that the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer can organize, it is proposed to allow the organization of an online momentary lottery. Changes are proposed in art. Art. 10 and art. 10c of the Gambling Act. The aim of the bill is to provide additional funds for the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer." The Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Radostin Vassilev added that the Bill removes some of the errors made during the last amendment of the Gambling Act, according to the Ministry 1000 points of the state gambling operator should close from 1 August 2022. He stressed that it is necessary to support the activities of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer in the direction of using the opportunities for carrying profit rather than loss. The opinion of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is that it supports both submitted legislations. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. In their written opinions the Bulgarian Sports Analyst and the Ministry of Youth and Sport support the Bill. The Ministry of Finance supports the changes providing for the expansion of the public gambling operator's portfolio, the withdrawal of the restriction as of 8 June 2022, to organise gambling only at own or hired posts with staff, but under the condition that the points are limited as a number and in cases where the distribution of gambling is not organised through its own offices, the distribution by outsiders should be organised under the conditions of franchise. Support in the provisions of art. 40 and in the sanctum norm of art. 116, para. 1 of the Gaming Act Terminologically the words "stop the activity" shall be replaced by "stop the activity." They do not support the other legislative proposals. They believe that they are not motivated, vague, unreasonable, contrary to the rules of the Law in force, contrary to the protection of vulnerable persons. They stand behind the position that gambling advertising should be socially responsible and protect against gambling addiction, especially young people, and that it is unacceptable to advertise the winner and the amount won in the media, thereby putting him at risk of racketeering and extortion. According to them, the proposed addition in the definition of a pledge will create a risk of abuse and opportunities to avoid the payment of state fees under art. 30 of the Gambling Act. The Association of Gamblers and Activities Organizers in Bulgaria does not support the Law on § 1, § 3, § 5, § 6, § 9 and § 12. They accept that the provisions will create discrimination between the organizers of the various gambling games, create difficulties in interpreting the actual meaning of the legal rules, dependent persons will be deprived of protection in respect of certain gambling and will ease the situation of certain gambling. Apart from their arguments, they also support the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. On behalf of the importer, a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-96, was presented by Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski. He pointed out that the Bill focuses entirely on the preservation of the lotto points of the state-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Analyst" from August 2022. The important thing is that with the proposed addition of art. 10c, para. 3 of the Bill provides for any person who has gambling problems, as well as persons susceptible to gambling and the development of gambling addiction, will be able to ask not to be allowed to participate in gambling organised by the persons under art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 of the Gambling and Gambling Act organized online. At the same time, and on the basis of an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance, it is proposed that the lotto points should be limited from 5000 to 3000. According to the analysis, the total contribution of the external network to the proceeds is 15% of the proceeds from numerical games, which for this year is approximately 15 million. lv. for lottery games. With regard to maintenance costs from January to May 2022, an average of 1 point of internal network has direct costs of 3431 BGN, or a total of 2 178 685 BGN. From January to May 2022, an external network point on an average monthly basis has costs of BGN 476. In case the proposal for 3,000 points is accepted, the expected revenues of the state-owned company will be 310 million for the current year. BGN, for 2023 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, and for 2024 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Prof. Rumen Gechev expressed his position that the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer should be saved and the efforts should be directed there and the other changes should be discussed further. According to him, the state gambling operator was kept out of business and therefore made losses. Mr. Yordan Tsonev said that his parliamentary group would support a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-96, and would not support a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-75. Thus, a fair advantage would be given to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, noting that now is not the time for other changes under the Gambling Act. Ms. Venice Netzova-Angova pointed out that the focus should be on the development of the state gambling operator and their parliamentary group will support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-96. Mr. Kiril Ananiev said that the first draft should be done many and in-depth analyses, and the proposed second version of the bill has detailed motives and its parliamentary group will support it. The representative of the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Ludmila Petkova noted that they maintain their opinion on the first bill and support the second bill. Minister Radostin Vassilev stressed that the only way the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer to remain stable is to sell tickets outside its own posts and should be equal to other gambling operators. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski expressed his concern that the first bill brings back the arrangement of the so-called coupon rub, which is a prerequisite for the development of gambling dependence in the young generation, as well as affecting gamblers. In addition, the proposed changes in art. 9, para. 1 of the Bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-75, should be subjected to a thorough debate and be implemented by a government with a wide horizon so that it can be effectively controlled. No annulment of § 99 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, which was proposed by Mr. Petkov was proposed. (prom., D.V., No. .). Express a position that between the first and second votes on the second bill will put forward editorial proposals. As a result of the discussion, the Budget and Finance Committee shall: The National Assembly, with 1 vote, proposed that a draft amendment and supplement to the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-75, submitted by Deyan Petkov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2022, should not be adopted at the first vote; The National Assembly proposes to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Gambling Act, No 47-254-01-96, submitted by Lyubomir Karimanski, Iva Miteva and Andrey Mihailov on July 11, 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u306	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on both laws. Anyone? The first was Mr. Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u307	Mr. Chairman, extremely interesting things have happened in recent days. Given that the government is still constantly repeating the mantra of how this Parliament should continue to exist, how they must form a government so that this Parliament can urgently adopt 21 bills relating to the Recovery Plan, at the same time introduce a Gambling Bill. It's okay. It is important that this is what we are currently discussing, as it is about preserving the points at which the lotto is located. However, the paradox does not end here with the priorities of our government. When the Finance Commission was discussing a bill introduced by the "We continue the Change" it happened so that the Change did not support its own bill. I don't know exactly how they explain this to themselves, how they explain it to their constituents, and how they see this thing in their legislative work, a bill is introduced that does not support it in the Commission and does not want it. It is not the first time, it has also happened, but the truth is that a bill has been introduced by them, which, apart from keeping the lotto points, allowed the lottery, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, except that it retains its monopoly in the distribution of the so-called coupons, which rubbed and gave revenues of hundreds of millions in the budget, to be able to distribute not only at the lotto points but also elsewhere. That was one of the main things. Against the backdrop of crocodile tears, figuratively speaking, about this budget that has been adopted, and they complain that there will be no income to fulfill all this thing that has been approved in this House, they are putting in a bill that will guarantee hundreds of millions of revenue, but the Commission does not support it. Only ARRANGEMENT supported their proposal. They voted together with all the other parties in parliament. It's just a paradox I'm pointing out. We at AGE think it is important, given that we retain the monopoly of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer for the coupons in question, no one foresees in these bills that this status quo will change, on the contrary, remain. And I can't understand why they gave that signal at the last minute, and, figuratively speaking, they gave up all that stuff they were offering and they entered, and it had to be accepted. And they would have gotten the approval of rebirth in this thing. We are currently discussing their bill, which did not pass in the Commission, came quite another one, which simply rejects and does not comment on the coupons, but the preservation of this state which is currently. It's not normal for me to do this thing that's happening. We will support their bill at ARCHIVE. We'll support the other one. That's not a problem. The point is that when you make requests that you want to urgently remain in this Parliament to work and change 21 laws in order to absorb some funds under European programmes, at the same time you are dealing with other laws that you do not accept. This is anything else, but not thought-out, targeted and management actions of political power, which has claims to govern Bulgaria. [[Private applause from AGE.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u308	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines? Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u309	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, if you had come to know each other a little more carefully, in detail, and had compared the proposal made by colleagues about the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Gambling, in their proposal you will see that they offer art. 9, para. 1 to be amended so as to allow again the rubbing of tickets freely throughout the commercial network. This we cannot allow at this stage without knowing how this is controlled, without knowing whether this will not create concentration in precisely defined, whether it is franchise objects or other. We have no debate on this. And I don't know why we should say at all, such motivation at all to express from this tribune, as we very clearly say in art. 9, para. 1 who are vulnerable persons and how they should be stopped from being vulnerable. There's a list of all the bans. And these bans are extremely important. Just like we're putting the online lottery into that same ban. Otherwise, yes, I agree that there may be an increase in revenue, but you and we have no way of knowing how all these gas station tickets will be controlled, in commercial networks and everywhere. That's one thing. And the next, you have not most likely paid attention that § 99 regulates precisely the continuation of the existence of these lotto points, which will be able to continue their activities after August. And this paragraph is absent from the first bill at all. Well, then how do we extend them?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u310	Thank you. Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Ganev, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u311	Mr. Karimanski, the fact that even you and I are having this dialogue, constructive, shows the attitude of the importers of the bill in question. What I stressed and what was most important about their legislative power at this time. Regarding what you said specifically. Exactly because I read it, so I'm going to repeat it again, which is important. First of all, this is at first reading and, as you know, between first and second reading all these problems that you have raised, especially on the second, the main problem of the absence in their bill, by the way, I am extremely uncomfortable that I am the one who has to defend the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u312	Don't defend him!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u313	Absolutely. No baby, Mr. Sabrutev. Keep your upbringing, please. It's not like I'm defending their bill, but there's good stuff in it anyway, and that's why I'm here. The paradox is that they don't want to protect their good things. Otherwise, the bad guys, about what you said, the lack of this paragraph, is something that at second reading could be removed, supplemented and done. Regarding the first thing you pointed out as an argument. Again, and you know it, it's clearly written the monopoly of the State Lottery for this thing is preserved, no one else has access to sell such a thing, such coupons. Yes, the control of where, how and exactly it happens in the same way is a detail that can be removed, corrected, put into certain frames when desired between first and second readings. And discussed. So what you have put forward as arguments is a fact, but it is not a problem to remove and adopt this bill. Unfortunately, in this Chamber, we will probably be the only ones who will support it, but from now on all that you have said as arguments, I think it is something that can safely be removed if desired.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u314	Thank you. Colleague Angova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will make clear on the issues raised in my speech. In view of the current political situation and the need to adopt key laws in short time to implement the reforms for the absorption of funds under the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan from.. We continue the Change. We believe that in relation to the proposals made under the Gambling Act, the urgent and important task is to prevent the bankruptcy of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and to preserve the lotto points. You know that it was set in 2019 about 60% of the posts to close next month. We believe that this is unjustified, and we will therefore support this measure, which is pressing and must be resolated in a very short time. It should be noted here that we will make editorial proposals under Mr. Karimanski's Bill on the proposed paragraphs between first and second readings. Finally, I would like to share that the systematic changes to remodel the sector think that it is necessary to park them at this stage in the light of Parliament's unclear mandate, as well as the need to focus on urgent and important tasks such as reforms in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. And we also need a broad debate and public discussion for these systematic reforms and remodeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. Are there lines? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u317	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angova, as far as I understand from your speech, there is no political will of the importers to continue the reform of the Sports Totalizer as they have imported it. That is the case, and as I look at the Commission's own vote, even those who have imported it are not going to support it. I was curious, only when you said that we could continue with the PWI reforms. I'm very curious to know, yet I've been asking this question for some time now, what are these reforms? Because so far, there's been an ambiguity of what is envisaged? There are 22 laws. By the way, on the ISU 2020 website, and there are not 22 bills there, but less of them, none of them are in the National Assembly stage, that is, the Council of Ministers has not done its job yet. In other words, how can Parliament focus on reforms in legislation relating to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, given that the Council of Ministers has not done its job? Unless Members of the National Assembly appear to be in urgent order to start importing these bills. That's what we'll see if this practice is necessary. As for the bill itself, I think that colleagues just said it, in the text you proposed, in fact, what they wanted to achieve is not really there. And there are quite different things, which means that maybe, I hope not, but it's still some attempt at lobbying legislation, something you were going to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u318	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there another line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Angova, I still could not make the connection, as said colleague Gazhev, between the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the proposed bill, which you as importers will not support yourself. Because today we are debating on both laws proposed for amendment to the Gambling Act, to emphasise that the essential part of the bill of colleague Karimanski and the group of importers overlaps with that tabled by your parliamentary group and other colleagues. The question was also that we discussed to the Budget Committee: why did we not support the majority in the first part of the proposed bill? Because it was imported by a group of MPs. We commented that the powers and changes he proposed in his composition, the main ones, concern a very wide range of public interests and there was no time for public discussion of the Bill.. You were also present. But the analogy you made with the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the speed with which bills to support the absorption of funds from it are irrelevant to this bill. As long as the second part and the second bill will be supported, I see that your parliamentary group also agrees and it is right to give real opportunity to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer to continue its activities in the volume and powers it has, with even slight expansion. But the recovery and sustainability plan, as the re-dereplicating colleague said, has no connection here. Unfortunately, from the consultation we made with the Council of Ministers on the Plan, these 22 bills have only just begun to be worked on, if memory serves, one or two this week, which were rather ratifications, not amendments to the legislation, were adopted by the National Assembly. But it was nice to have the Council of Ministers, and also the colleagues from the Council of Ministers. And when they were one of the conditions for your government's continuation, your term of office, was to have a clear, scheduled time programme to be adopted to be proposed to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, there isn't one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u320	Thank you. Mrs. Angova, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u321	Thank you. I understand, Mr. Gajev, that you want to shift the debate more to the recovery plan. Yeah, but because of the analogy I made, I'm gonna answer with the information I have right now. With regard to the reforms that are at stake, they are located, as you said, on the ISU website. There is up-to-date information that is updated every day. Like, yes, there is a difference between number of laws and legislative proposals, 22 are legislative proposals, laws, if I'm not mistaken, are about 17. You can meet this. And to the Budget Committee, Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev announced that about 13 of the legislative proposals are in preparation, so don't worry, expect them. And I also wanted to share with you that these legislative proposals should actually be adopted by the end of this year. I don't know what your expectation is, exactly how you think it is, I'm interested to tell about your plan how you see it in the coming months. And in fact, I want to address that, indeed, these proposals and changes are very key and very important. I don't know why you're so focused on them. Perhaps some of them bother you, especially in connection with public procurement, I don't know, or others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. The next entry is Mr. Gechev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Firstly, I would like to state once again that I am personally adamant of any gambling and I share the policy of many countries of the European Union, and beyond, where gambling is prohibited, or if allowed, it is permitted in individual cities. Including in the United States, which are the flagship of the free market economy, as you know, this is very limited. But since there are not enough opponents of gambling, and there are enough friends, we should actually take into account the realities and optimize gambling so that it benefits the fisca, the Bulgarian budget, and through the redistribution of revenues, and the Bulgarian economy, the Bulgarian sport and the solution of social problems. But, honourable Members, two projects are being proposed. We discussed again in the parliamentary group.. we will support both projects, as the main goal of the project is to ensure the interest of the state company in gambling.. State Sports Totalizer, as it is not a technical error at all, but in a previous amendment of the law I think that Mr. Simeonov proposed this amendment, which I should have, what audacity I would say, the State Sports Totalizer now, on 8 August, had to close several hundred, I think 1000 points of the lottery to be even more pleasant and even more disturbing for the private business to accumulate its profits. In addition, we took this issue because to recall that according to the Agency for State and Financial Inspection, confirmed by the government of colleagues from GERB and their allies, and personally by the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, they found that gambling was stolen to 700 million. BGN, 500 and several million. lv. the fees payable, and together with the interest rates, to 700 million. lv. That's what they appreciated. That money hasn't been returned at the moment. Besides, those who missed the 700 million. lv. in favour of the State, are Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Economy then, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Justice, SANS officer, Director of the National Revenue Agency, Head of Supervisory of the Gambling Commission, appointed, directly proposed by the Minister of Finance then. And what are the results so far? The money's gone, the director of the NRA, who's been a representative for many years, quietly resigned and took cover. That's how the DANS officer was covered, who, from what I understand, left the DANS and is now in private business. From gambling there's only one person who's been investigated ever since, and have you heard anything? You won't hear because there's an umbrella and it'll probably be covered. So to remind you of the huge scandal of 700 million losses. Secondly, it became clear that the company "State Lottery" for years was deliberately held in the corner, only in the offices of the State Lottery, without interfering in the wide market of private companies. Besides, like the refinery, it was most likely, almost certain, the only lottery firm in the world that was at a loss. Not only was she at a loss in your management, colleagues from GERB, but she even paid, so to speak, provided funds for prizes in sports. So the company's decapitalization continued. For this reason, we must now make decisions to minimize losses. One is to preserve the points of the State Totalizer, and the second, between first and second readings, I think we still have a chance to increase the field of realization of the instruments, of the services offered by the State Sports Totalizer, because somehow it gives me no peace that we will continue to limit the field of sales of such gambling instruments by the state firm and let private companies play their horse the way they want. I mean, they get their profits, and the state firm gets held up in the corner. So there was a clause in the first law, which can be inserted into the law at second reading, which the IHN colleagues proposed, so that we can provide optimal conditions for both the state firm and the fissure, as there are no guarantees that private companies will continue and pay the necessary amount due to the Bulgarian treasury. And another note, colleagues. Since I said that gambling is generally socially unfair, it creates addictions, creates problems for thousands of families, is not educational for young people, but there is one point here that I will not agree with. There's no way we can limit the state-owned company to not rubbing coupons, if what's going to come out? So if a private company sells the coupons and our kids scrub them, that's very educational, that's noble, that's very nice, but if the coupon is issued by the state firm, that's bad, that doesn't raise them. So in conclusion, I will tell you the following: we know each other well, honourable Members! It was about this business and the criminal robbery of the Bulgarian treasury with 700 million. We've also heard of a full report, we've heard of a fundraiser, but that's not what we're talking about right now. What I want to tell you is that by listening to the debates on both laws then, listening here, I have to tell you that some people don't hate this private gambling business at all. Here are established some connections that are trying to influence our decisions, as we are talking about hundreds of millions of levs. So, in conclusion, let us protect the state's interest, let us, if changes are made to the Law, be such that they generally restrict gambling. Since, colleagues, the income from gambling is great, but not I, specialists have found that the costs of the consequences of gambling are much greater for the state. All over the world, gambling comes with crime, prostitution, fraud, drugs. That's known to everyone. So we must think about in the future how to preserve the interest of Bulgarian society and protect our children and young people from these disastrous consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u324	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gechev! I'll take your last sentence: to protect the growing generation and the youngsters. I would very much like you to explain to the House because you are the importer of this bill, together with Mr. Petkov, I think that Deyan Petkov was called, if I am mistaken the name, I apologize, which could not explain to us the Commission, but your change in art. 9 What does it say? Doesn't it say the opposite, which the Ministry of Finance also confirms, that we should not protect youth, children and adolescents, but, on the contrary, move them? Therefore, I would like, although it will be a short time for you to explain exactly art. Nine in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u326	Mr. Karimansky, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u327	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line will be very brief. Professor Gechev, in the last more than two years there are no private gambling companies to scrub tickets. The sports catalizer is a state monopoly and as a state monopoly private companies are not allowed to sell any tickets and scrub. So we're not in this hypothesis. Let us look at things in the same way as we need to be decided in a consistent manner, according to what is proposed as norms in the two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u328	A line, Mr. Gadget? Mr. Cholakov, you're up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u329	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, in the Bill which you signed as a known enemy of gambling in quotes, including with colleagues from the "Keep the Change", including with the Chairman of the Committee on Youth in the National Assembly Mr. Chenchev, it is explicitly said that I will help by reading art. 9, which you have signed and submitted to the National Assembly: "It is prohibited to organize and distribute lottery games except for a number game bingo, a betting game with results, sports competitions, races with horses and dogs, betting games on random events and betting related to knowledge of facts in buildings where state administration structures are located, regardless of their type and ownership, both in educational, medical and health institutions. That is to say, in educational institutions, you can have gambling points. Is this your fight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u330	Mr. Gechev, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u331	Thank you. I have to admit, first of all, when it comes to coupons and others that I've never wasted my time, I don't have time, I have more important things to do as a gambling specialist. What I've told you is that gambling is harmful in my deep conviction. But once allowed in the laws of Bulgaria, it is our common concern to see how to minimize the negative effects. We must not sell any coupons in any schools here, but now I must answer the question. At the meeting of the Budget Committee, I explicitly told my colleagues that I have always supported the Ministry of Finance, when it comes to protecting a fissure, I explicitly stressed that I am amazed by this text in the motives of the Ministry of Finance. I am absolutely amazed where they write that the state firm, if it expands its activities, will be very poor pedagogical for the young generation. Wait a minute! For the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance, gambling can be extended if it is from private companies, it cannot be extended if it is from state companies. Here the idea is this, and I share that the state firm, once gambling is resolved, should be able to operate in all sectors where private companies operate. How are we going to limit market competition in favour of private companies? After private companies robbed the Bulgarian people with the help of the former government, according to which they stole 700 million. lv. ... [[Relations from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]] No, these are facts that you have exported, so let's leave now private companies without additional competition from the state. Once again, a state firm that was at a loss, and here I do not want to mention my questions to your ministers, who here wondered, what to answer, why is there a state company, a lottery that is at a loss? So let's not go into that field. From this point of view, I say again, if gambling will exist, it must be under continuous, enhanced and non-appeive control of the state, to limit the impact on young people, not to allow people with addictions, to pay their taxes as paid worldwide. Finally, if we can shut this sector down, even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u332	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. The next entry is Mr. Cholakov. Come in, you have the floor. [[Replication by MP Radomir Cholakov.]] You and Mrs. Dimova switch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Cholakov, you'll fill me in afterwards. Colleagues, first of all, I just want to tell you exactly what happened on the Budget Committee. In the Budget Committee, the introduction of the Bill, the first importer, if I am wrong, can correct me, and colleagues have failed to explain exactly what it offers with this bill. The only thing you said, there's a transcript, and it's about the lotto thing. So far, this has happened. Then a resigned minister had to help him and explain what was happening in this bill. I would like to emphasise why we will not support the bill proposed by Deyan Petkov and a group of MPs. I'll read you very briefly: Art. 9, para. 1 in the current text: The organization of gambling in the buildings of their respective areas, public state ownership.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'll read you the current text. Besides that Mr. Karimanski said gambling with what are replaced and with rubbing tickets is written: Thus read together with the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, and we still argue that this does not limit youth and the growing generation. On the contrary, even gives permission in the block without permission on floor property to happen these things. I would be very happy if the first importer came to this tribune and told me exactly what he had imported, and what did this bill say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u334	Thank you. Mr. Yordanov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Dimova, whatever calls to make from the stand Deyan Petkov to explain, he will not be able to do so because this law is not written by him, but is most likely written by Radostin Vassilev, the former Minister of Sports, who, as we know, is extremely moral, is not an oven shovel and is not a traitor. In this law he has not inserted texts to tempt young people to gamble and does not allow this to happen in schools and hospitals at all. He probably just did it like that without assuming that someone would take advantage of it, and he doesn't know it, and it happened by accident. So Mr. Deyan Petkov doesn't know what he signed. He hasn't read it, and he can't explain it to me. If he can disprove me, let him come out and explain what the meaning of the Law is and how it protects youth? As far as BSP colleagues are concerned. It is good to support the Bill of "There is such a people" so that you do not fall into the silly situation to claim that gambling has a disgusting social function, and at the same time you also vote on a bill that allows to scrub coupons everywhere. You know what a problem it was and what a dependence it brings, but again I tell you, this law is the importer who stands in front of it, he has not spoken in this Parliament for a long time. Now I'd like to hear him explain it. Maybe he should call Radostin and tell him what to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u336	Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Dimova, I remember very clearly in the Commission what we said. You were aware of the reasons behind the Bill, and I focused on the fact that, in fact, the main thing to do is to save these lotto closure points. Whatever you are doing, and whatever words you and your colleagues are taking, this does not change the fact that, during all these years of your management, the private business has been tolerated by the state. Mr. Gechev said a lot of things. There's no point in repeating it. And I think this is the main thing that we need to focus on for these 1,000 families to remain their loved ones at work and for these lotto points to continue to work. And of Mr. Yordanov this is just the voice of disappointment that remains in the past. [[Applause from non-members in PG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u338	Mrs. Dimova, do you want a jacket? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, thank Mr. Petkov. That is what we have heard in the Budget Committee: Mrs. Dimova, you have seen the reasons, this is about the lottery, they are before you. If this is how we submit bills, and this is such an important Gambling Bill that deserves public discussion from everyone, not on foot, colleagues, I leave it to your conscience whether or not you will support it. Thank you, Mr. Petkov, for seeing all this after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u340	The next entry is Mr. Kralev. Here you go, Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u341	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The main goal of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer is to provide funding for public policies in the field of physical education and sports and culture in the country. The budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is in extremely direct dependence on the annual turnover that the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer realizes. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer at the Ministry of Youth and Sports is 18% of the annual revenue, with 10% of the revenue, or 1.8% of the revenue, going to the Fund of Education and 10% for the construction of sports infrastructure in schools. These charges represent around 40% of the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for 2020 and 2021, for example. Despite the fact that the current gambling law provides a monopoly opportunity to the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer for the organization of instant lottery and lottery games, there are many restrictions and obstacles to the implementation of the activity in optimal volume. The main obstacle is related to the restrictions of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer to carry out its activities through the free distribution of its products to suitable outlets and only in its own support network. With a bill approved by the Committee on Budget and Finance amending and supplementing the Gambling Act submitted by Mr. Karimanski and a group of MPs, some of the gaps made during the last amendment of the Gambling Act, which will lead to the closing of nearly 1000 points of the State Gambling Operator on 7 August 2022. Currently the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer has 640 own betting points and 960 of partners. For information, private operators offering instant lottery games on the market in 2019 had nearly 14 thousand physical points for the sale of coupons, without which they realized turnover of the order of a billion and a half leva. I believe that the main task of preserving the financial stability of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and providing additional funds for the totalizer, and hence for the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Fund of Culture and for the construction of school sports infrastructure will be implemented after the adoption of proposals by Mr. Karimanski project. The proposal enables the enterprise to optimize and modernise its commercial network. Giving the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer the opportunity to realize its activities outside its own betting points within 3,000 sites will allow for income of over 350 million. lv. The next year. For comparison, the totalist's turnover for 2020 is 245 million and 2021. 289 million total revenue. This will result in a grant of nearly 70 million to the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Fund of Culture. The proposed changes to art. 13, para. 1 in Mr. Karimanski's Bill expand the scope of gambling organized by the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. The Sports Totalizer will be able to organize betting games on random betting events related to knowledge of facts. The expansion of the portfolio of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer will give the enterprise an additional opportunity to increase revenues and achieve financial stability. The proposed amendments to Mr. Dian Petkov's first draft bill and a group of MPs rejected by the Committee on Budget and Finance should be subjected to an extremely thorough analysis and debate to achieve more effective state control, and I believe that they are not of the first need to achieve the financial stability of the enterprise. I therefore call on you to support Mr. Karimanski's Bill, supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance, and I believe that it is optimal and adequate to the needs of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u342	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Are there lines? Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u343	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kralev! You were Minister of Youth and Sports and introduced us to your opinion which law should be voted on and who should not. I'm interested in the relationship between gambling to attract money and be able to direct it to sports and young people, that's actually the idea of the Sports Totalizer. I am interested to hear from you as a longtime minister of sports, do you think that actually young people are currently gambling more or performing more sport in general? One of the huge problems in Bulgaria is that our youngsters, unfortunately, are more involved in gambling. And I'm not talking about the lottery, I've never seen the lotto play, but playing slot machines and any other gambling I've seen. I am very interested in you as a minister who spoke specifically on the topic of gambling, what do you think about these issues. In what state is the youth currently in about gambling, which is a huge scourge of our society. Because you've been doing politics, imposing something that should happen for young people. I think that at the moment, unfortunately, in Bulgaria our young people are more gambling than sports, and this is due to policies that you should have imposed. I, for example... am still interested to hear your opinion I, for example, would ban advertising gambling on national media. What is your opinion about advertising any form of gambling on TV, in newspapers and so on? I'm not saying shut down a private business, let's have a business gamble, but I don't think our youngsters are thinking more about sports right now. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "This is forbidden! "]] [[the President signals that time has run out]] Unfortunately, they think more about gambling, so as a longtime minister, I'm interested in what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u344	Is there another line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Gadget. As long as it's not to Mr. Ananiev's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u345	No, to Mr. Kralev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u346	That's what I'm counting on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u347	Mr. Chairman, I'm making a reply to Mr. Kralev's statement. I'm making a line to him, and I end up knowing the rules. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kralev, as far as I am aware, private gambling operators outside online have not been available for several years, including the ban on gambling advertising. I want you to help me understand what has been tabled by.. We continue the Change, BSP and the independent bill, I want to read to you, or rather to quote you, the highlighted parts in the motives. As a man who was a minister of youth and sport, how do you find these sentences? First stressed: The proposed changes will increase the confidence of the general public in the activity carried out by the gambling operators. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] It's a very supportive fight against gambling. This is in the reasons signed by n a number of representatives from "We are continuing the Change" and BSP and the independent ones. Next paragraph: To facilitate access of the population to gambling [[GERB-SDS, partial applause]] which qualify by the group of so-called soft gambling, it is believed that these are the games that do not require large stakes to participate in them, therefore creating a smaller gambling dependence according to the importers, as well as limiting the mass collection of personal data of individuals, changes are proposed to facilitate people who offer gambling services. The expansion of the portfolio of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer is good, but by fighting gambling dependence, it is explicitly said that the bill in question aims to enable increased access to gambling games and physical access, through the physical network and end points for sale, so that we can reach 1725 people at a gambling post. These have been written in the motives of our colleagues from "We continue the Change" and BSP and the independent ones. For me, such motives are scandalous. Such legislation, which, by the way, allows even in schools to open gambling posts, is unacceptable. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I want you, as someone who is much more experienced in the field than I am, to explain whether this is really the right legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u348	Mr. Gazhev, I just want to say that I'm a patient man, but I guessed. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] It wasn't a line, please. You say you know the Rules, read what Rules mean. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kralev, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think you were Minister of Sports at the time when the lottery registered 700 million losses, you were Minister of Sports at the time Mr. Simeonov made this amendment that we are now correcting. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Coming out of the stands and saying things like that, a constructive criticism in some form is, in my opinion, a higher form of hypocrisy. I would not allow myself to walk the streets in your place, not to speak from the stands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u350	Hole, come in. [[Laughter from MP Toshko Yordanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u351	Mr. Yordanov, this man really doesn't know what he's talking about. Not that I doubted your words, but another manifestation of incompetence, what 700 million? What kind of losses? You can just sit there, get written on the paper, say your words, and let's get this drama over with. [[Calls MP Deyan Petkov.]] There's no 700 million. lv. losses for the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and there never was. About Mr. Ananiev's line. Mr. Ananiev, there is no such statistics or such sociological study whether Bulgarian young people are more involved in gambling. We have done research on the attitude of Bulgarian youth towards sport and their commitment to it. The debate at the moment is not about or against gambling in Bulgaria, we are talking about a simple thing here. The budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is extremely dependent on the work of the Sports Totalizer, on the revenues it will realise for years. Perhaps this is the only ministry whose budget is the function of the activity of an undertaking. And here we are talking about how to preserve the structure of this enterprise, to help optimize or not the network. And that is why I believe that the draft proposed by Mr. Karimanski is extremely conservative and adequate to the specific needs of both to preserve the competitiveness of the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer, without uncontrollably entering this market, to allow uncontrollably advertising or uncontrolled increase in physical points of sale. As I noted, we're talking about a maximum of 3,000 points in the presence of 14,000 just a few years ago. Otherwise, on the policies we have been conducting, very serious campaigns have been made in recent years on prevention of different types of addictions, campaigns conducted by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and this is a separate topic on which we will be happy to discuss, and I think that the current management of the Ministry continues this programme, so the two things are fundamentally different. One is the attitude towards gambling in general and the dependence of young people on it, quite another is the dependence of the Ministry of Youth and Sports by the Sports Totalizer. So in this case we are forced and we are obliged to protect the interest of the state enterprise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u352	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Mr. Cholakov, it's your turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, do you notice that this debate is swaying all the time between the moral aspect of the issue and the financial aspect and somehow we cannot hit the wax because I think the importers especially of the first project feel uncomfortable. Colleagues, I honestly tell you, the importers from the PP of the first project, we were very embarrassed, we were very embarrassed when we saw what bill you were importing. I, frankly, did not expect you to amend the Gambling Act after all requests for reform, new beginning, morals, 22 laws, recovery and sustainability plan, the agenda of society and suddenly the Gambling Act, and as we hear with very disturbing motives of the kind that we need to stimulate people, facilitate access, expand and so on. I understand that Mr. Karimansky and the importers of the second bill actually tried to make up for your mistake or to say what you tried to do and to minimize the blow that would have been struck, if you were going to make up for the morale that you so irrigationly talk about. I am also surprised why the Ministry of Finance has not introduced this law, as it is most logical to bring it in. How can you, MPs, young people from the PP, gamble? Once again, it's ridiculous, inexplicable wherever we look at it. Someone has used you, thank God, that I say again, Mr. Karimansky and his colleagues are currently trying to compensate and stop the possible worse development. However, I, colleagues, want to sharpen the debate on its moral component and on its moral aspect, because, see, public wealth, at least that's how we studied in textbooks, is created by labor, work is at the heart of public welfare, is not gambling. We, unfortunately, seem to get too excited by this subject or in the worse case we have become cynical to the extent that we believe in the maxim that money does not smell. No, there is money that smells, there is money that is better not to take it, because, as Mr. Gechev said: gambling leads to so many risks to society that it may be, and it most likely turns out that the losses for society are greater than possible budget revenues, but this fiscalism is killing us and it is time to start rethinking it. If you want value change, this is the value change in our minds. For us, what is more important is the children or the budget, because if it turns out that the budget is more important than the children, then this society has no future and there is no point in talking about it. I really want to address my colleagues from the PP once again because you are young people, we have children, some of us have grandchildren now, thank God, somehow we kept them in the storms of transition. I don't know if you young people will have children, does it matter to you if they have easy access to gambling? I mean, do you want your kids to have easy access to gambling? Or let's get the money in the budget, there's some money, some revenue sources, and then we'll think about it. After that, colleagues, it's always too late. I keep getting scenes in my mind, if you want from the crime movies we've seen, where crime bosses are fiction, but it's life, crime bosses say they don't agree with their kids selling drugs, they don't agree with kids selling drugs, they don't agree with kids dealing vices. The bandits themselves want their children protected. Do we want our children to be protected? I mean, why do we expose them to all vices? Why are we doing this? With which I would like to finish and tell you this: the next time someone decides to amend the Law on Gambling with the Best intents, here we see, I agree, by the way, I have absolutely no objection, I have absolutely no objection that the State Sports Totalizer, the State Lottery should, if not the advantage, at least equal competitive status with the other private operators, but that is not the point. The point is, fellow Members, that we are talking about how it will be very scary if the 1500 points are reduced to 600 and that is why we will make them, we will give them the opportunity to be 3000, by seeing what kind of people we are, they will not be 5000, and there will be only 3000, and I ask myself: are there 3,000 bookstores in Bulgaria? Why didn't we make sure there were 3,000 bookstores and take care of 3,000 points, and private ones 14,000, anyway. [[(Replies from]] Look, these are questions, if you will, to me, to us, I don't blame anyone. It is about our way of thinking and whether we are able to start changing it, to distinguish between good and evil, to decide what is good for children and to give them what is good, and to keep them from what we think is evil, to decide that there is money that smells, and that there is money that we will not take whatever it costs us to smooth it out, that sport will finance it with money for sport, and we will not rely on vices to finance sport. At least that's how I understand it, and I don't see what the problem is. And my request to complete is the next time that someone decides to amend the Gambling Act, with which to liberalize it or there to make it easier, or increase the revenue in the budget, or something else, I really ask you, at the same time, to put mechanisms -- like this -- let's see inside the balance in the Bill -- money against morality, how we restrict advertising. You know that the Bulgarian media can mostly not without the money from the gambling advertising. It's also a subject to think about. If we want to have independent media, if we want to have decent media, if we want to have free media, we need to make them receive sources of funding other than vices than propaganding sins. This is also a task to the Gambling Act, which we just need to keep in mind in the general picture. My appeal is: let's look at gambling and at this topic at all as a moral issue, first of all, not as a financial one. And once we change the angle, if we start looking at it through this prism, you'll see how many other things start to line up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u354	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Cholakov, then a really moral statement, a call for high morals in parliament and the astonishment that someone has allowed themselves to submit a Gambling Act, in which will change the lotto to have 100 points. 12 years GERB manages Bulgaria, you made a casino on every corner, Mr. Cholakov, casinos are more than libraries, more than polyclinics, more than bakeries, more than milk shops. There's no intersection where there aren't at least two casinos. And not the lotto and not the coupon that scrubs is the big problem for the kids, the big problem is the machines, the casinos there is the big problem. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You want us to remove the coupons now and bring them all of our children you're talking about into the casinos. Let's write a casino ban bill together, shall we, and bring it in together? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Together! Now I invite you to submit such a bill because 12 years GERB has done so. Remember, colleagues from GERB, how you voted when the private lottery was proposed to be closed. Remember how you voted, along with the Patriot Front. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Yes, remember how the plenary then voted. Yeah, I know, but for what purpose did you lock them up? For what purpose did you lock them up?! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I'm just asking questions. So, Mr. Cholakov, when you make the calls for morality, remember, I say again, you weren't in this room, you weren't in that party that did it, but you made every corner to have a casino, every single person, every single person working to give yourself the last money that earns a cab driver, a salesman, a teacher, to give your money there, in the casino, on the machine and one part in the lotto. Only this part of the lottery was going to the sport, and that part I'm talking about was going to someone's helpers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u356	Second line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u357	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Cholakov, I'm a little confused by GERB. You are talking about morality, Mr. Kralev was talking about a budget, which sounded logical that if the lottery should generate some budget in order to support sport and youth and in fact this is the way, perhaps you should think in what way only through the toto to generate such revenue and to support youth and sport, but you are talking entirely about morality, you are addressing young people from the PP so a little edifying talk. You may have been recently in GERB, and perhaps that is why they let you speak more on the stands, but remember the friction revolution that happened during the reign of GERB, where people were tired of rubbing coupons all the time and this thing was left to whirl for years, so don't go out and talk about morality on this subject. It's just better to keep quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u358	Third line, Mr. Zashkev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I expected Mr. Cholakov to say that Ivan Kostov is guilty of the lottery again, but otherwise my line will be very short. Because GERB were very opposed to gambling, so they left Ivaaaa..., Vasil Bozhkov, I apologize for almost making a mistake. That's why you left Bozhkov because you were against gambling. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u360	Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u361	I haven't really been to parliament, but my colleagues remind me that the coupons let them go oresharski, but they have been stopped by the GERB government. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u362	Your time is running out, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u363	I'm waiting for the room to calm down, Mr. Chairman. But what I do know, fellow Members, is because I've been impressed. Do you know what was the first law to bring in the NDSV government when it won the 2001 elections? The first law in parliament?! Borislav Tsekov submitted a Law on Religions, was forced to withdraw it and a amendment of the Law on Gambling was tabled the next day. I won't forget it in 2001, by the way, I have to check 1998 whether the first law has not been introduced again the Gambling Act. Was it the government of Sergey Stanishev in 2007? [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "2005" or "9."]] Ah, 2005! I was very interested in who would be the first law to be introduced. It wasn't about gambling. The second law he tabled was an amendment to the Gambling Act. Colleagues, Mr. Svilensky, it's a very long story. I've asked several times, I'll ask again. So Bulgaria didn't start 12 years ago. The problems we face have not been generated in these 12 years or have not started in these 12 years, they begin at the beginning of the transition. I really think that one day we should sit down and quite calmly start talking about the whole transition, talk about the 90s, about the mafia bosses, about how the gambling started, about the bank and about all these things, because in the end it will turn out to be, as many times I pay attention to the fact that in the last 12 years some processes, thank God, have begun to be used, the beginning of which lies in the 90s. To be honest, we need to really revise the entire transition, talk about the whole transition, talk about all the mistakes that have been made, and not fix ourselves on the last 12 years, because this thorn will not come out of this rabbit. The rabbit is buried deeper and you all know it better than I do. There's no point in trying these conversations anymore. They don't get us anywhere. It's nice to meet you, by the way, that sometimes it's like I really play the role of a litmus test, I make a statement, and I see certain people getting excited, going out and starting to insult me. For me, this, colleagues, is a compliment. That means what I said worked, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u364	Are there any other colleagues who would like to speak on the bill? Mr. Petrov, a statement? [[Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u365	Mr. Chairman, I know it's a habit of colleagues coming out here in the manner of conduct, turning to the chairman and asking him to speak from this tribune only truths. I'm not gonna do that. I'll address the chairman. Ask your colleagues who come out to speak out of this tribune to declare a conflict of interest. Some people had their entire campaigns funded by Bozhkov, some people had their protests funded by Bozhkov. And now to blame us for shutting down Bozhkov's business. And not to say it and not to praise us for it is understandable, but just ask them to go out and say: Who brings in this law of gambling that you speak to us edifically from here, colleagues, I don't understand?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u366	Mr. Manev, how do I know which party is funded by Vasil Bozhkov? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u367	I have no doubt that you know many things, because you are the chairman of both the Internal Affairs Commission and the Offices have been quite high. You, if you don't know, don't know who?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u368	Okay. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u369	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As early as Wednesday, when I reviewed the programme that we adopted for this plenary week, I could not help but notice that the point with these two bills pointed clearly to the dates of their entry.... the first 17.06.2022, the second, literally that day, 11.07.2022. The fact that we are submitting for consideration bills in an urgent order when they are proposed by MPs from the ruling coalition, there is nothing wrong. But I would like to say that it is a very vicious practice when drafts are introduced and because the majority responsible is also in charge of the committees and they are given a quick track to pass reports from the committees, it is a very vicious practice then the importers themselves of these drafts should not support them in the committees, subsequently also in the plenary, as happened in the Budget Committee, the cashier bill Deyan Petkov and a group of MPs, where the members of the Committee of the Committee of the. I would ask you, honourable Members, when you decide to submit such bills, from which you will subsequently give up and have us from aging to vote for ideas that are good in these bills, to consider that parliamentary time should not be wasted simply on a sample of a mistake or for non-distributed bargaining, especially for money laundering such bills, which regulate gambling and gambling activity in the Republic of Bulgaria. Besides, not only them, we saw another example yesterday. For two years, the Democratic Bulgaria has been talking about how they want to fight the monopoly of Lukoil, that they want to investigate Lukoil and when the time came for the establishment of a temporary committee, they voted against. I can't explain that one of the slogans at the end, which is said by the vote, you'll recognize them. I am sure that this will happen now and with the same bill by.. We continue the Change....... which are part of the importers of the first bill. They didn't support him in committee, and now they won't support him in the room. What's with the parliamentaryism, guys? Is that why you're running bills on June 16th? Please take the remaining two weeks of parliamentary life of this Parliament more seriously before we dissolve it on 2 August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u370	Are there any lines to Mr. Petrov's statement? Here you go. Mrs. Miteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wondered very much whether to take the floor on these two bills, as I have participated in the work 2020 on the Gambling Bill and until the full ban on gambling activity. Mr. Petrov, you're wrong. First, the bills are looked at in an urgent order, as there is one § 99 of this particular 2020 bill, according to which from 8 August will stop the friction everywhere, that is, the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer in this part should be closed, that is to say, our Big debates were further 2020 on this text. Yes, it was on a proposal from Valeri Simeonov and thanks to him this bill basically happened. But this led to extremes because indeed the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer could not provide so many people, hire so many people and provide this activity. To date, that's impossible. Indeed, many people will be out of work about 2,000 people, and this must be clearly heard. About 900 points should be closed. That is why we have proposed this bill to enable these people to continue working so that this activity can be truly regulated by the state. And we do not support the Bill tabled by our colleagues from "We continue the Change" by BSP and the independent MPs because we believe that too much is expanding the activity, and we cannot allow, since this will has been banned everywhere, the door to be opened so wide again. I mean, we say no to the gas stations, not the shops, not the restaurants where it's done. Yes, only an activity carried out and regulated by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u372	Is there another line to Mr. Petrov? I can't see. Do you want a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u373	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Miteva! I understand that the 2020 Bill, which is expected to react to the consequences that will be on 8 August, if I have heard correctly, was not submitted until 17 June 2022. That was the purpose of my speech. We cannot at the last moment react to this government, already resigned, yet we are at twelve without five proposing bills, which we will not support on top of that. I'm talking about this bill. I agree with your arguments, yes, you have a bill, yes, since 2020, there has been such a problem, yes, it will happen on 8 August, but we cannot bring in at the last possible moment We also want to react to this. We also want to keep the lotto checkpoints from closing. We will support this bill, but the aim of my speech was to warn the MPs that they should not submit at the last minute bills that they have slept through, in this case six or seven months of governance, and to give them priority in Parliament's programme, instead of laws that should really be dealt with This was the role of my speech, and I hope, again, for my fellow Members on the left, in the last two weeks of this Parliament, before we dissolve it on 2 August, to be able to adopt bills that really fight this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u374	Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am doing a procedure to clarify a factual inaccuracies that Mr. Cholakov has allowed himself to say from this Chamber, but it will remain in the transcript, and there are many MPs who will continue to be MPs and it is good to know not to repeat it in time. The law that was introduced during the Triple Gambling Coalition was not the second, but the sixty-two. Give faithful references to your colleagues when they speak, for from the second to the sixty - second difference is about two years. That is, the second of the third year management yes. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From this tribune, it's good to speak truths, so that's my procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u376	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. Let's wait a minute for the coworkers from the towers to come and we'll start voting. Colleagues, we have two bills on this point that have been discussed. And I will put them to the vote depending on the time of their submission. The first bill, which was tabled on 17 June 2022 by the National Representative Deyan Petkov and a group of MPs, has No 47-254-01-75. This bill is not supported by the Budget Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 189 MPs: 19 against 115, abstention 55. The bill hasn't been passed. [[(Reply:]] Do you really want a reword, or are you kidding me? Then come and make your case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u377	Mr President, I do not need to motivate myself why I want a re-vote under the Rules of Procedure, but I will say that there is a need for a re-vote, because I believe that the results have shown that support for this bill should not be in the slightest interest, as the phrase has been required, the last few days in society. [[Laughter, noise and lines in the hall.]] And should receive extremely strong support from not only the opposition but also the ruling party, which, as I understand it, supported this bill. So I want to do a re-vote that reflects the real will of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u378	And I'll tell you that you're confusing the Chamber with the courtroom. Welcome to your seat. I'm putting the bill in motion. Abort the vote, announce the result. Well, it had the effect of revoting 24 votes. They voted 188 MPs: 24, against 112, abstention 52. The bill has been rejected. May I have your attention, fellow Members? We're in the finals. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Gambling Act No 47-254-01-96, submitted by Lubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs on 11 July 2022, which is supported by the Budget Committee. Vote 192 MPs: 140 against 5, abstention 47. The bill has been passed. There's no request for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u379	Are you here for procedure, Mr. Karimansky? Here you go. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u380	Dear colleagues, I suggest that we vote on the deadline between the first and second reading of the Gambling Act to be three days. Three days, I think, is enough. Thank you. That's my offer. [[Reply: "Five days. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u381	Mr. Karimansky, is it three days or five days last? Three days. Okay, guys, is there a reverse opinion or other proposals in this regard? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Lyubomir Karimanski the deadline for proposals between the two votes to be three days. Vote 187 MPs: 139 against 40, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Two draft decisions have been made with the representatives of the National Assembly of Tosko Yordanov and Victoria Vasileva. Mr. Yordanov, will you introduce us to the texts of the decisions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION amending Decision on the election of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption (prom., SG No. ...) for changes in the composition of the committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The Parliamentary Group has released Andrey Nikolaev Mihailov as a member of the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u383	Read the second one, please, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u384	The second proposal for a decision: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to the data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Andrey Nikolaev Mihailov as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u385	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u386	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u387	Colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the submitted drafts of decisions. Anybody want to speak up?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u388	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u389	I guess not. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, just one moment, since one amendment should be made. Honourable Members, the first to read Mr. Yordanov to us about changes in the composition of the Commission, the name, the reasons and the text of the decision corresponding to the Rules are incorrect in the draft decision to amend decision. Accordingly, I will read you the corrected draft decision, which I will also put to the vote, as far as there is really some incorrect spelling in the submitted draft by Mr. Yordanov and Mrs. Victoria Vasileva. The draft decision must appear as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a change in the composition of the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 19th para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Andrei Nikolaev Mihailov as a member of the Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. This is how the text should look like a correct statement, so we will put this text to the vote. No comments or comments. Mr. Yordanov, do you still want to get acquainted with the text?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u390	No, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-14.u391	Okay. I put to the vote the draft decision as it was read by me in a correction. Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: 172 against 1, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. I now put to the vote the second draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications is the text as read by Mr. Yordanov. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: 166, no objection, abstention 2. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, I should also read you the parliamentary control message that will take place tomorrow. Questions will be answered: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister for Economy and Industry in Retirement Cornelia Ninova, who will answer a question from the MP Rumen Hristov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Grozdan Karadjov will answer two questions from MP Zarko Marinov. 3. The Minister of Transport and Retirement Communications Nikolay Subev will answer five questions from the MPs Rositsa Kirova; Zornitsa Stratieva; Ivo Ruschev; and Nikolay Drenchev two questions. 4. The Minister of Energy in Retirement Alexander Nikolov will answer a question from the MP Hristo Gazhev. 5. The Minister of Defence in Retirement Dragomir Zakov will answer a question from the MP Stoil Stoilov. 6. The Minister of Interior in Retirement Boyko Rashkov will answer 10 questions from the MPs Stanislav Anastasov; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Halil Letifov Two; Dimitar Avramov Two; Ramadan Atalay Two; Ahmed Ahmedov; and Yusain Weyselov. 7. The Minister of Culture in Retirement Atanas Atanasov will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Totev and Stefan Shilev. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the CMS, due to the absence of respectable reasons of Members of the National Assembly, the answers to: - three questions from the MP Yordan Tsonev to the Minister of the Interior in Retirement Boyko Rashkov; - a question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva to the Minister of Health, who resigned Asena Serbenova. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Council of Ministers, due to urgent commitments, are postponed answers to questions with written answers from the Minister of Health in Retirement Asena Serbenova. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, will not participate the Minister of Agriculture in resignation Ivan Ivanov. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session will take place tomorrow, 15 July 2022, at 9.00 on the already adopted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
