ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Mr. Bikov, do you have something to say? No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u2	I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u3	Okay. Colleagues, I am informing you that as the emergency epidemic situation expires, the possibility of remote participation in the work of the plenary is also removed. The other thing I would also like to inform you before we move on to the National Assembly's Work Programme for the week is this. As you know, from the beginning of the National Assembly, we have maintained the parliamentary practice of the Forty-sixth National Assembly regarding the necessary votes in each vote to have 121 participants. This is not legally binding. This is not necessarily required, but there are problems with the practice that we have introduced, which is why we will return to the practice implemented until the forty-fourth National Assembly, including [[DRF lines]] , namely: in order for a proposal to be adopted, they must have voted more than half of those last registered or according to the final inspection of the quorum. That's it, guys. Colleagues who were in the Forty Fourth National Assembly know very well what this is about. We move on to the National Assembly Work Programme for 6 April 2022. Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month, so we will start with the proposals made by parliamentary groups in accordance with art. 47, para. 8 of the CPNS: 1. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the MCC from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2020. Importer "The Commission for Protection against Discrimination." There are no proposals received from such people. 2. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 by the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" "First vote of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for access and disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers.? Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. 3. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the substation from the parliamentary group of the party ARCHIVE " Draft decision to terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. 4. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the Support Office of the Parliamentary Group of.. We continue the Change...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer of the Council of Ministers, sequel. 5. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the substation of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS "Project of a decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to establish all the facts and circumstances related to the government's signed Memorandum of 1 billion. US dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, 28 March 2022 These five points enter the Programme automatically and will not be put to the vote. The next points to be put to the vote shall be as follows: 6. Law on the ratification of the Treaty (Written for offer and acceptance of a tender/Letter of Offer and Acceptance.OA) for supplement and amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Treaty (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Missiles, associated material and services). Importer of the Council of Ministers, sequel. 7. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2020. Importer National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. 8. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2020. Importer "Commission for Protection against Discrimination." 9. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2020 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January 11. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and group of MPs, sequel. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. 13. First vote on the Bill repealing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers "Kostadin Kostadinov" and a group of MPs; and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers.? Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. 14. Draft decision to take action in relation to the identified danger of becoming impossible for the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican road network. Importers "Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, appear first for Thursday. 15. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for two members of the Council for Electronic Media, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer "Culture and Media Committee," item two for Thursday. 16. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act. Importers "Study Gurov, Hristo Ivanov, Victoria Vasileva and Georgi Svilenski, February 15, 2022. Adopted at first vote on March 17, 2022, item three on Thursday. 17. Parliamentary control in the order of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the first item for Friday at 9.00. This is a blitzcontrol with the missing members of the Council of Ministers from last Friday. There will be four of them from 9:00 to 11:00 for making up-to-date oral questions. 18. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly "The regular parliamentary control from 11.00 to 14.00" I request a voting regime for the Programme in the part proposed by the President. They voted 199 MPs: 141, against 6, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. There has also been a proposal for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT, which is to be included as a item on the agenda of the bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The proposal is inadmissible because the same proposal was made on 23 March 2022 and was rejected by the plenary. On the basis of art. 47, para. The 3th sentence of the Rules of Procedure cannot be made within the same month. Here you are, Mrs. Tsoneva, for a statement. For the procedure after the declaration, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u4	On the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u5	Then I'll give you the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll read: DECLARATION of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" During the last days, the evidence of the atrocities committed by the Russian army in Butcha and other Ukrainian cities has been multiplied. The world's public opinion is shocked by the footage of civilians' corpses on the streets, the discovery of mass graves, reports of rape and torture of innocent people, mass marauders by Russian soldiers. It is becoming increasingly clear that Putin's regime is committing war crimes that are raising the scale of genocide. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria strongly condemns the massacre of civilians by Russia and insists that Bulgaria participates more energetically in the opposition of the civilized world against Russian aggression in Ukraine. We insist: Firstly, Bulgaria should support the provision of forensic expertise on the investigation of war crimes to the Russian army, which are already organised not only by Ukrainian authorities, but by the UN, the European Union and other international organisations. Secondly, as a member of the European Union, our country should support new harsher European sanctions against Russia. Thirdly, recalling that as an answer to the atrocities in Bucha and elsewhere partner countries, such as Germany and France, kicked out a total of 75 Russian diplomats, and Lithuania the Russian Ambassador, we demand the announcement of a persona non grata of the Russian ambassador in Bulgaria Mitrofanova, whose behaviour has been systematically contrary to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and undermines the dignity of Bulgaria. Fourth, Bulgaria should start providing Ukraine with weapons and ammunition to allow it to defend itself against Russian aggression and war crimes accompanied by it. Freedom, dignity, and life must be defended and defended! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Mr. Atalay wanted a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, my procedure is to include on the agenda a solution proposed by Colleagues, it's been nearly 15 days since we proposed this decision. If the decision had been adopted, from April onwards, within 6 months we would have provided the government with about 2 billion. 900 million. lv. revenue from which the Bulgarian business, municipalities, nursing homes, schools, kindergartens were to be supported. Since the government, following our call in the last three months, has not reacted and has done anything significant on this issue, even that Bill you have proposed relating to the construction of photovoltaic systems for its own needs of a notification regime, you are also not bringing it into the Chamber, thus hindering business development. My fellow Members, the decision is in everyone's best interest because over the last six months we have left 366 million unsubstantiated profits in the hands of producers of green energy and the total unjustified profit is within 3 billion. lv. Therefore, my request, Mr President, is: let us be at the height of what society expects of us and help the government instead of drawing 500 million credits, to provide it with three billion revenues, because with the adoption of the moratorium, you made it impossible to sell 500 million government bonds. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u9	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u10	Excuse me, Mr. President, I propose that on the agenda for Thursday the first item be the Decision which offers a Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Without questioning the substance of the proposal, but proposals cannot be made orally in plenary to include items on the agenda. Those may occur on Tuesday by 6 p.m., which shall be put to the vote. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's right, you're right about the procedure. Mr Atalay's proposal was to you and you to propose to the House, because as President of the National Assembly, you can propose to the House and the House to vote on inclusion at any time on the agenda of a new item. This is only within the authority of the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u13	Thank you, too. Before we move on to the agenda, I will read you two messages: First of all, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of: a plane with crew from the Greek Air Force, aircraft with crews from the Air Force of the Republic of India and Japan, aircraft with crews from the People's Republic of China. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international sector regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after positive opinions from the competent state authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 30 March and 5 April 2022, with input No 47-203-09-29, 30 and 31, and were made available to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets on 31 December 2021 by the Ministry of Energy and the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. Point 1 of the agenda shall be: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S DISCRIMINATION PROTECTION ACTION IN 2020 Importer is the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 30 March 2021. There has been a report from the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Professor Chorbanov, will you introduce us to the Commission Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, before I introduce you to the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 43, para. 2 to be admitted to the plenary associate professor Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva "President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, we are voting for admission in this House. They voted 133 MPs: 129, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the President of the Commission to the Chamber. Here you are, Professor Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the Commission's action on protection against discrimination in 2020, No 120-00-9 submitted by the Commission for protection against discrimination on 30 March 2021. At a regular meeting held on 27 January 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens discussed a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2020, No 120-00-9, submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 30 March 2021. The meeting was attended by Associate Professor Dr. Ana Djumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination (CSD), and Mrs. Anelia Chobanova, representative of the Association for Commerce for Protection against Discrimination. The Commission's activity report for 2020, submitted on the basis of art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination was presented by the Chairman Associate Professor Dr. Anna Dzhumalieva. It reflects the results achieved, main findings, conclusions and assessments for the work of the CDC, as well as some of the important objectives. Special attention is paid to the specialized and expanded jurors. The work of the specialized and general administration is reported. The focus is also on international cooperation, interaction with national institutions and the realization of projects under which the CDC is a contractor and leading partner. Prof. Dzhumalieva said that in 2020 the conditions of a pandemic have posed new challenges both to the institution and to citizens seeking protection of their rights, but the CDC has not ceased its activities during the entire period of the epidemic crisis. The role of regional representatives in the Commission's activities was also highlighted. During the reporting period, a number of solutions with a general outcome in the field of health, the accessible architectural environment, the provision of social services were given. They concern both the legal framework creating prerequisites for indirect discrimination and the need for positive measures and the same criteria in the application of legal norms. 910 complaints and signals were filed, 591 files were formed and independent legal assistance was provided to 1200 victims of discrimination. The decreed decisions are 728, and the self-esteems are 412. It focuses on the significant contribution of the CDC to the development of a project for the National Strategy to counter discrimination in the labour market. It was stressed that the CDC fourth year worked hard on the National Campaign "Accessive Bulgaria" which aims to provide an accessible environment for people with disabilities in Bulgaria. The legislation and, in particular, the Law on Protection against Discrimination give the necessary protections and instruments that allow disabled people to conduct proceedings before the DPA for an accessible environment. The CDC has created special certificates for an accessible environment and in 2020 the activities of assessing the accessible environment already have positive results. Since the start of the campaign, there have been over 1,400 proceedings in the Commission, over 800 decisions on the campaign, over 90 certified sites in the capital and in the country have been awarded for efforts and care to provide an accessible environment for disabled people. Prof. Dzhumalieva pointed out a number of events and initiatives of the CDC in 2020 related to prevention and protection against discrimination. It shall inform in detail of the cooperation agreements signed by the institution both at national level and with bodies of international organisations with similar fields of activity. As of October 2020, the CDC is officially a member of the European Network for National Human Rights Institutions. The number of training seminars, round tables and participations in international forums were also noted. In the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens was delivered an opinion on the Review by the NGO "Confederation for Protection against Discrimination." The following discussion was attended by the MPs Radomir Cholakov, Andrey Chorbanov, Gunaj Heusmen, Milen Mateev, Petar Kyosev and Ivan Ganchev. Questions were raised as to whether there was a tendency to change the groups of discriminated against as well as to a significant increase in the number of complaints resulting from the CoVID-19 pandemic. Opinions were expressed in support of the Commission's preventive and social activities, as well as its campaign to provide an accessible architectural environment for disabled people. It is noted that it is desirable in the next Report to indicate the problems in the legislation in order to promptly neutralize vicious practices. The MPs united around the idea that the CDC Report for 2020 is detailed and shows well done work. The representative of the NCC "Confederation for Protection against Discrimination" expressed his opinion on the time limits of the proceedings, the official beginning, the administrative criminal and control function of the CDC, as well as on the need to improve the legal framework. Prof. Dzhumalieva answered the questions in full. The procedure relating to the proceedings before the CDC and the appeal against the decisions given in court was clarified in detail. She noted that there is a trend towards the emergence of new vulnerable groups of individuals both in Bulgaria and in the European Union. These are pregnant women, mothers with children and women 50 years of age, with limited opportunities on the labour market. As regards the complaints related to the pandemic and the measures taken, Associate Professor Dzhumalieva explained that there is no serious increase in the case files. The Chair of the CDC provided the MPs with a written answer to the questions raised in the opinion of the CCC. Following the vote, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens unanimously proposed to the National Assembly 13 votes to adopt a Report on the Commission's activities for Protection against Discrimination in 2020, No 120-00-9 submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 30 March 2021. The Commission also proposes a draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u17	Please read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u18	Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u19	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Will there be an opinion from the importer? Okay. I open the discussion on the Report presented by Professor Chorbanov, the draft Decision, incorporated in the Report, and the Commission's work on protection against discrimination in 2020. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have reviewed the same one as the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2020. Unfortunately, I was not satisfied because I believe that in 2020, the Commission has escaped from its fundamental role, which has been given to it by the protection against discrimination, and has strengthened its influence and presence as one, unfortunately, a politicized body. Why would I say that? Because in this report of the Commission's activities, unfortunately, what the Commission has to do is say on complaints is taken into account in a very small part, and most of the report is separate from what memorandums have been concluded, what events and goodwill meetings have been held, to which the main role has been attributed. In my view, and in 2020, the Commission conducts policies which, unfortunately, is not embedded in it by the Law on Protection against Discrimination and has ignored its main obligations under Chapter 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, namely the imposition of forced administrative measures on the control of the administrative acts applied by it, but, in general, the implementation of those acts, unfortunately, is subsequently prevented, as a large part of the acts issued by the Commission do not subsequently endure in court, which makes the work of that committee seriously meaningless for me. We are asking for an end to the work of this committee since it is pointless for us to do so. I don't usually like to speak by heart. From my practice, I remember that in 2020 I canceled before administrative courts the Commission's refusal to deal with complaints by citizens and I wonder how this committee works, provided that the Bulgarian court cancels refusals to deal with complaints by citizens. I am surprised that this committee is not going to see it in the Report, but its proceedings in 2020 are extremely slow and do not bring any speed to the protection of citizens who are filing complaints for protection against discrimination and are thus fleeing its main activity, which has been incorporated into it by the Law. I remember reading in the media, and especially at the end of August 2020, there was a statement by the President of the Commission to the European Parliament in Brussels that the government in the government in Bulgaria was then discriminated against by the protesters. I do not know if it is true and I quote only Slavi Trifonov's opinion of August 29th on the Internet, in which he himself resents and says that the President has been taking a salary of 11,000. lv. a month. I don't know if it's true, but the man asks, why is this salary being paid?! I believe that the Commission does not carry out the work it is carrying out under law, it simulates an action on protection against discrimination, it does not assist citizens, it does not adequately address their complaints for protection against discrimination, it does not control compliance with the acts issued by it, one part of the acts which are not annulled by the court, but have entered into force, which is why I personally will not support the Committee's report for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Kostadin Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u22	Mr President, I would like to remind those present here in this House that this committee was established nearly 20 years ago under a European directive, because, according to the directives of the European Commission in every Member State of the European Union, there must be a national equality body, whatever that means. Further, the documents described properly by the Brussels bureaucrats comment that in certain countries there are cases of unequal treatment of people according to their sex, race, ethnicity, religion and so on and so on and that is why such a national equality body should be established. However, the practice of not saying 20, almost 20 years since this absolutely artificial structure exists, which, by the way, it is appropriate to remind at this time that it is taking away 1 million from the state budget. 130,000. lv. This is money that actually goes to support the Commission's staff for protection against discrimination. As seen from the Commission's report, it does not deal much with active case files, with case studies, but rather with a kind of banquet tourism, congress tourism and whatever you still want to call tourism, especially in writing different types of messages and other similar communications and communion with similar organizations both in Bulgaria and outside Bulgaria. So for a million and 130 thousand leva we get a non-working, parasitic structure that was created at an insistence outside, not because Bulgarian society needs one. If Bulgarian society needed such a thing, it would not have existed for 20 years, but much longer. The practice, by the way, over the past 20 years has shown that the cases in which these really, really unpleasant cases are considered are the number of fingers not both, but on one hand, and in fact this whole institution exists simply and simply because, you see, in some other countries in the European Union, there are similar cases a fact, undoubtedly, but apparently these countries have problems that we do not have. It is only right to think about how and how we will continue to apply the requirements that are put on just like that, as our Prime Minister says, because, in reality, this has no relation to the real social relations in Bulgaria. If a person feels discriminated against, he addresses the court first of all. To the Commission for Protection against Discrimination from Year to Year the signals are becoming less and less, so we insist that this institution be closed and we will work so that it is removed, as well as many other other parasitic structures created to provide work for retired party officials, at the moment when their party no longer knows where to find a job for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to Kostadin Kostadinov? Nastimir Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I was going to replicate colleague Petrov, but I gave up, and after your speech I decided that maybe you should come up with a line. You say in fact: there is no discrimination in Bulgaria. That's what it looks like. I think there is, unfortunately, discrimination on all lines of both sex and based on sexual orientation and religion, and based on ethnicity, there is discrimination absolutely in all directions. Now you are very right here, both you and colleague Petrov, that this committee is politicized and does not do the work it needs to do. Unfortunately, most regulators bequeathed by GERB are in the same situation, but this does not mean that we should close them all just because they do not have expert and professional management, but in some way have been politicized. The question is that these committees do their job and when a person is discriminated against, he knows that he will receive protection from this committee. Yes, the court is a step that is normal to go out with, but we must also have such a working body. It's not working right now, and I have a lot of complaints about lack of activity, and of the specific, and actually of protection, because this committee has to protect against discrimination. The feeling is that it is not doing so at the moment, but I do not think that the closure of this body will solve the problem, because by the same logic we should close almost every regulator in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a second line to Kostadinov? Philip Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kostadinov! That's a very short line from me. Firstly, I do not agree that the Commission is not working. On the contrary, it works and this is evident from the Commission's report itself. There are a number of proceedings before the Commission concerning this issue of discrimination in Bulgaria because there is discrimination in Bulgaria. Is such an organ needed in Bulgaria? It's obviously necessary. Closure, what you want, is a completely different conceptual issue. This is where we are discussing the Commission's Activity Report. Reading the report, I see that the Commission has been working and I cannot agree that the Commission has failed to carry out its functions, objectives and tasks back in time. Of course, in Bulgaria it is very easy to throw tension or guilt to certain bodies that do their job, but it is difficult to build new ones or to have a new perspective and the easiest is, of course, to say: they do not work, let us close them down. I don't agree with that statement. We will support the Commission report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u27	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? Come in from Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a line so I don't have to make a statement. Dear Mr. Kostadinov, in fact the reason why it requires the Commission to be closed and which comes from its inefficient work and to you, Commissioner Ananiev, this is the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer, unfortunately, which is paid as expenses from the Commission's vicious acts falling into court. Something you will not read in the Commission's report, this is how much money per year for this year, for 2020, the Bulgarian taxpayer has paid for expenses in cases which have been lost due to Commission acts. I'm going to set a very simple personal example. The Commission's refusal of 2020 shall be appealed to the relevant administrative court. Of course, it cancels the refusal of the expenses paid by the Bulgarian taxpayer. The Commission shall lodge an inadmissible complaint with the Supreme Administrative Court It is precisely because of all these things that are not described in detail, that the Commission's greater work is ineffective and only leads to the obligations that you and I are paying them, unfortunately. That's our demand, and that's why we want it to be closed. Because if you think about it, most of the cases, of the case files, come to court anyway, which, by working with the Law on Protection against Discrimination, is pronounced for the benefit of one party or another, which claims to be discriminated against. That is why we believe that such an intermediary as this committee in its current form is another topic of conversation, because the account, when you draw the line, is not small, unfortunately, we Bulgarian citizens pay it. I'm saying this as a man who deals with matter, so I've given you personal examples. Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u30	One part of what I was going to say as an answer to the lines was actually just mentioned by Peter Petrov. However, I would like to draw your attention to something else. The Bulgarian administration has been extremely bloated since the last 30 years, which is very paradoxical against the backdrop of the fact that the population of Bulgaria has decreased by one third. At the same time, the existence of any such increased administrative and bureaucratic structure has absolutely no argument, because until 1989 we had a command-administrative system that commanded every aspect of society, including the economy. At the moment, there is almost nothing left of the economy that is in state hands, while the state apparatus is growing and growing. The structure of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is made on a foreign model. It is designed to meet the needs of Western European societies, where there is such a problem where there is racial discrimination. In Bulgaria, however, there are no people of different races, in the first place. Secondly, our society over the years has built a unique tolerance that transcends political divisions and supports the survival of the unity of the Bulgarian nation in spite of the attempts of certain political forces to instill division because there are those, including in parliament, one such force as the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u31	Mr. Kostadinov, please don't make accusations against any parliamentary group or political power!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u32	These are not accusations, these are facts, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u33	I'm asking you too!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u34	Well, okay, fine. We both pray, come on. So in this situation, the question should be asked: who needs all these parasitic institutions? I immediately give, by the way, an example of a country such as the United States, a favorite of a part of those present here, and there is no Ministry of Economy there, and the state has the most powerful economy in the world, there is no Ministry of Culture, and at the same time its culture is dominating worldwide. Global culture is practically dominated by the Americans and this is their strongest country, this is their soft power, but they don't have the Ministry of Culture. We can think a lot about this topic: the extent and extent to which our administrative structure currently corresponds to the real needs of Bulgarian society or whether it does not actually serve the interests of the political elite and the status quo which governs the state in some situation, quite divided by the interests of Bulgarian citizens, which creates, by the way, a very serious watershed and practically a gap between the Bulgarians, on the one hand, and their institutions, on the other hand. We therefore say that the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is unnecessary. Not just because it obviously and obviously doesn't work well, but because it's just that her design isn't ours, it's a stranger. It is grafted on Bulgarian soil and therefore does not work, so it will never work. And if someone has such a problem, because there are also such cases as exceptions, of course, cannot be denied, but when a person has a problem, he addresses the court first of all, unless his lawyer eventually advises him to turn to the CDC. But when he turns around, as Peter Petrov said, in most cases either there is a refusal or it turns out that the acts fall in court. An ineffective institution, an ineffective administration, just its place in history, and its documents to go to the archive and forget that such a parasite existed in the state administration system.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u35	Radomir Cholakov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! These topics have become a little much around this report by the Commission and are all interesting and important, by the way. To take occasion from Mr. Kostadinov's last words that many organs, many services and all servicemen, or how do I say, made in a foreign matrix, how did you say it, Mr. Kostadinov? That's a fact, that's a fact. However, Mr. Kostadinov, unfortunately, in this National Assembly there is not enough conceptual thinking in the majority to discuss these issues and to begin to solve them one by one. I hope that when GERB returns to the government, we will start conceptually this time and solve them. Because, look, they're not government bodies, or they're not political elite bodies, and they're the authorities of the administration itself. She's creating them, including the Brussels administration, she's protecting them, she's feeding them, she's raising them, and at some point I'm starting to ask myself, "How much of a political class isn't a hostage to the administration that actually tells her what to do?" We will be convinced on many occasions that this is the case. As for the Commission, colleagues, I generally ask myself another question: what does an effective regulator mean for us? How do we imagine the work of an effective regulator? I'm going to tell you that I'm imagining an effective regulator that's like a judge at a game in the field. You do know that a good judge is the one who doesn't notice? The more a regulator starts playing, the more a regulator starts interfering with the public processes it regulates, the worse it gets and eventually all problems come back here to parliament. For me, frankly, I'm telling you, well-managed or, how can I say, a well-regulated public sphere is the one where there is silence in which there is no tension. I remember the early years of this committee, where I had experience as a person against whom complaints were filed, and then I worked in the media. I realized that there are some public groups, Mr. Kostadinov, who wanted to instrumentalise and use this commission as a tool for pressure on the political class.... for proving that there is discrimination in Bulgaria. Do you understand? The logic was reversed. The Commission was designed as an instrument to prove that there is discrimination in Bulgaria. She had to prove it. It seems to me that in recent years this committee has shown exceptional wisdom, colleagues, in fact acting more as a mediator, as far as I understand it, of an authority that calms tensions in a given area, does not allow them to come to the surface and become a real political problem, which any of these issues could become. In fact, in this way it has really helped the lack of discrimination and the comfort of public opinion in this area. Do you want to have a very active discrimination commission that starts issuing sentences based on complaints from civil organisations against this or that violation? Is that what we want? So I find that the Commission has specifically established peace and quiet in this area, for a very positive and something that must be safeguarded. In this sense, I will support, of course, the report, as well as all of the Commission's previous activities, which, again, I tell you, for me, is in the right direction to keep it quiet. That would be my opinion of all the other regulators. You can see that these regulators, in which it is very interesting, usually create a political problem - for example, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission - always. So, as I said, I will support the report, of course. Otherwise, Mr. Kostadinov, we would love to discuss the conceptual issue, of course, at the appropriate level. It is a pity that the majority in this House will not be able to reach these decisions that we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. About the line Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u38	Mr. Cholakov, you said very precisely that this committee was created to establish the existence of discrimination, for which I would really like to congratulate you because it was created for this. The fact that for nearly 20 years he has not found any blatant cases of discrimination is indicative of how unnecessary it is. I want to challenge you for something you yourself mentioned, but you didn't develop it. It was very key what you said there were civil organisations that referred to the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. In more than 90% of the cases, not to say nearly 100%, we are not talking about private individual complaints only because they are mostly such, but behind them are NGOs, funded by either Brussels or Washington. That's how they make sense of their existence. That is what they say: there is discrimination in Bulgaria. Here we have cases - 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 and we are helping the people concerned so that they can seek their rights. In practice, an artificial administrative-grantadic ecosystem has been created in which people are operating and vegetating, lined up on the ladder, receiving money, money that comes from abroad to reflect their existence, so that at some point they can be activated, because these are sleeper cells for influence. As soon as someone decides, press the button of these people who receive their funding from Brussels or from Washington, and they start to raise the olfactory to heaven how there is discrimination in Bulgaria and it is racial, it is gender, it is religious, it is not known what and so on and so forth. So they create unnecessary noises, create unnecessary problems in our society. If this committee is gone, they will have nothing to do themselves. It will basically destroy their entire ecosystem. So everything you said was practically a confirmation of our words. I couldn't understand how you came to the conclusion that you would finally support the report after you mentioned that you thought like us in this area? Of course, the subject of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is not a single issue. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Here we are talking about a major problem, administrative reform in general, how much is needed and how effective the Bulgarian authorities are and whether they are designed to meet the needs of Bulgarian society or are they designed to meet the needs of the Bulgarian political elite?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u39	Thank you. Second line by Philip Popov and third line by Nastimir Ananiev. Mr. Valchev, shall I sign you up for a statement? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Cholakov, in the form of a reply, I agree with much of the things you mentioned. Rather, an address to the colleagues who replicated you to read the report and not to use a regulator, a committee for some political dividends. Yes, indeed some of the proceedings before the Commission go to court, but the judicial phase, you all know that it is, firstly, prolonged, secondly, expensive for many of the people who are put in discrimination. Firstly, they turn to this committee, if it is possible in the committee itself to solve their discriminatory problem. After that, for the second phase, the additional protection is going to court. Why should the first phase of protection be removed? I don't see any logic in that. I'm really asking you to talk about the report, not general policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here's a third line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Cholakov, it is disturbing, at least from your request, what I understand that you are ready to discuss with the closure of the Commission. It is also disturbing that you say that the problems of discrimination should be quiet.. Someone should not hear that there is some discrimination. Maybe because it was quiet, they didn't realize that there was discrimination and say that for 20 years there were no problems in our society related to discrimination?! I will remind you, however, what is the abbreviation of GERB "Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria" because you often forget it. The Commission must establish discrimination, but it must not be quiet. When we have problems in our society, we must name them. So I hope you will take the duplicate and say specifically: is there discrimination in Bulgaria in the different directions that I have already defined in my previous line, or is there none? Should we sit quietly and not make too much noise if there is such discrimination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u43	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ananiev, why do you always misunderstand us? Why do you always want to point out something we haven't said? To say: "See now how GERB exposed themselves again!"..I mean, it's a dishonest tactic and it doesn't make any sense, but it only increases the tension we don't need. I cannot answer whether there is discrimination in Bulgaria because I must be a specialized body or have some special expertise. Yes, I have a general feeling that there is discrimination towards a certain minority, but this issue is so great, it is such a grand and national issue that we will not solve it with a single committee, nor a committee can solve it, and it must be decided strategically in absolutely all spheres of education, culture, economy, labour, whatever you want. To imagine that a commission will deal with Roma integration or Roma discrimination is absolutely ridiculous. The problem is too big and we bury our head in the sand for many years because obviously we cannot solve it because we are untenable. As for Mr. Kostadinov. I am also ready with you to discuss any administrative reform, but you have no ideas. [[turns to National Representative Nastimir Ananiev]] You've come into power, you've seen it, and now let's get our people in place. I guarantee you that all your aspirations and calls for a major reform of the system will stop as soon as you take over. It's always like this, unfortunately. It's okay, it's okay. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] To Mr. Popov. It is clear that the conversation has become general policy, not the Report. And I miss them, colleagues, these general political conversations, to tell you the truth. We always grab onto some specific topic and become a specific conversation that is usually boring. Let's talk from time to time and general policy. Why not?! So in each of the lines there was something valuable. I think I've taken an attitude towards them. I appeal, fellow Members, to understand each other a little more in what we say, and not to predict evil thoughts, give me one word, and I will twist it in your mouth, and you will see how I will make you ridiculous. Don't, it doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I suggest we stick to the Commission's 2020 review. Krasimir Valchev for next speech. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My observations on the work of the Commission are primarily from the period when I was an employee at the Ministry of Education and subsequently as a minister. I dare say that much of the complaints were not from NGOs who wanted to prove discrimination at all costs, but were from citizens who wanted protection on specific issues. Of course, the work of an organ can be distorted a little or more, but it should not be closed, but we should be looking for mechanisms to improve its work. I too, in these functions, have had comments to some Commission decisions, but in general, I can say that the Commission has been trying to protect citizens and groups of people from discrimination. If we want it to work better, we should rather look at what guidelines to be given to its activities, how to change the Law, what members we choose in the committee itself for protection against discrimination. I have witnessed many times someone unwittingly saying: protection of discrimination. One of the things I've found in my observations is that we not only have discrimination, but we have policies for so-called positive discrimination. We also have examples of an overdose of positive discrimination, which turns into reverse discrimination. One of the things, for example, that must be improved in the Law on Protection against Discrimination, is a better definition of the concept of positive discrimination. Otherwise, I would like the Commission to listen to the words of everyone who spoke earlier and Mr. Cholakov and Mr. Kostadinov and Mr. Ananiev and Mr. Ganev. I think they all said the right things, of course, some extremes, but in general we need this body and we need to improve its work. Yes, it was created probably by a foreign model, but 30 years ago we made an institutional transformation. We changed our institutional infrastructure completely. We can say that half of our institutions were created according to a foreign model 30 years ago we didn't have the Court of Auditors, we didn't have a Commission for Protection of Competition, and we couldn't have, since we didn't have a market economy and the rule of law, as we understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Ivan Chenchev for a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Valchev, I agree with what you have said, but you have saved me something that I would like to remind you and the House accordingly. Firstly, does the Commission need it? Of course there's a need. I don't think that's a question. Secondly, let the viewers hear that this committee deals with all kinds of cases. And discrimination is divided into direct and indirect. This is something someone needs to assess what discrimination is. The Commission has powers. The Commission has the power, even to collect evidence, to pay travel expenses to witnesses and so on. I'm giving you an example that I think is important. Because the Committee on Discrimination from the very title, many of us here can speak and give their motives, but I will pay attention to you, for example, that there are cases of discrimination.. here I have taken out, in the field of employment. For example, an uneven payment. Case of refusal of indexing of monthly remuneration of an employee returning from maternity leave. We also have discrimination in the area of inaccessibility for people with disabilities. The Commission shall deal with these cases. Do you think there's a need for it? Let's have all the coworkers here decide. I think that's an unnecessary question. This is a serious motive that we should not even think about shutting down the Commission. There are so many different cases. This committee isn't just doing its job. In fact, I'm thinking here, if there's a representative, let her tell us how many cases there are. What's their character? You will get a real idea that this committee is working. That's what you missed to say, Mr. Valchev. Otherwise, I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Is there a second line to Krasimir Valchev? I won't. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Valchev? No. Here you are, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like, on behalf of the Commission, firstly, to thank for the criticism and constructive dialogue that I have seen. Of course, we are very responsible for all critical remarks and will take them into account in our future work. I just want to say and put a few points on our work. I know you're very busy, but first I want to make it clear. The Commission for Protection against Discrimination was established in connection with the pre-accession process of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union. In particular, in connection with the closure of Chapter XIII. We are active members of the European Union. In addition, the Commission has also been established in connection with the transposition of the Racial Directive for the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is explicitly stated that there should be an authority or bodies to deal with these issues. In addition, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination under art. 2 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. The purpose of the Law, i.e. the philosophy of the law itself, is to ensure to every person in the territory of Bulgaria equality before the Law, equality in treatment, in the opportunities for participation in public life and effective protection against discrimination. I would like to emphasise here that we are competent and are dealing with complaints and signals. We are also investigating ourselves not only for violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens. We are competent for all who have violated rights in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regardless of whether they are foreign citizens, whether they are apatrids without citizenship, whether they are bipatrids, whether they are refugees. Many times in the years back, we have intervened and we have self-examined in cases where there have been problems with refugees on our territory. For example, by not doing so, I will quote one of our cases, preventing refugee children at school. Well, we're facing the same situation right now. We have refugees to show not only empathy to, but our institutions must work to secure and secure their rights on our territory. That is what the rule of law and the rule of law is. I agree and I do not mind, we in the Commission are extremely tolerant in the end and we are used to respecting other people's opinions. I do not agree that an institution should be shut down. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you are competent and we rely on you and your good ideas to improve the work of the Commission. For example, I'm going to tell you that we have a problem with functional immunity. It is good for the members of the Commission to have functional immunity. This needs an amendment and an addition to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. This is also one of the recommendations it has with regard to Bulgaria. I mean, we are very active and our activity is not just to look at complaints and signals. This is one of our main activities. We have always said that our first major activity is prevention. That is, we must prevent, inform society, train citizens, NGOs, teachers in schools how to avoid discrimination. In addition, I would like to say that in our report we have written on page 50, there is an accurate graph of the decisions that have been repealed in the administrative courts. Well, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely small percentage. To stress that all the Commissioners in the formation of the composition of the Commission are not all lawyers. However, less than 10% of the Commission's decisions are subject to and revoked by the administrative courts. As an administrative body, the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination issues individual administrative acts. In fact, the Commission's decisions are individual administrative acts. As such, it is normal to be subject to judicial review. There's nothing wrong with that. I'll put an accent on it. I also thank Mr. Chenchev, who has come to know the details of our activities, but that is what is important to know. The court pays expenses, fees and so on. While with a decision our committee has since its establishment, I dare say, we are making decisions and, in fact, we are covering the costs of the citizens involved in our proceedings. Why are we doing this? Because we also have social focus. Because I want to tell you that there are many people, many citizens who have violated rights. They are discriminated, but they have no money to pay their expenses and travel the distance to the Commission's headquarters in order to appear and defend their rights in person. So when you talk about powers, you need to see the whole picture. The whole framework of our law. In conclusion, I do not want to bore you with the fact that we are dealing with extremely important cases. This is not a matter of the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination, you can make a reference, we invite everyone to visit our institution, but the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination has been an active member for many years of the European Network for Equality Bodies. That is, in almost all European countries there are similar and related institutions. Repeatedly, as we participate in all working groups, we are actually also actively involved in the formation of equality legislation within the European Union. I would like to tell you that in many cases the Bulgarian Commission for Protection against Discrimination has been set as an example because we are the Commission, which deals with the most signs of 19 in number. We are not just looking at ethnicity, religion, faith, sex, human genome, political affiliation, education, social status and so on. In addition, these signs are given inexhaustiblely in the Law. In other words, it is explicitly provided that another sign provided for by another law or international treaty, adopted and ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria. Finally, I would like to say: when we are talking about the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, do not forget the people with disabilities. We are currently the monitoring and presiding body of the Board for people with disabilities. Don't forget the people with the rare diseases. Repeatedly over the years, we have spoken about rare diseases and in which cases the legal norm creates unequal treatment. We are also in your favor, of the entire National Assembly. Because you have the power, when you draw up bills, to contact the Commission for protection against discrimination in order to say in advance and to advise whether the norm contains unequal treatment. We have repeatedly delivered opinions to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. We are very effectively and very actively working with all the institutions in our country. Finally, I would like to say that we have created together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy a strategy to prevent and protect against discrimination in the labour market. An extremely important and up-to-date topic. It will also become an up-to-date topic in view of the people seeking asylum in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Jumalieva. You didn't have a time limit. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Petrov, you have already made a statement, however. There's only one thing to discuss. From your group, you and Mr. Kostadinov spoke. You've got about two more minutes of group. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u52	Mr. President, I would like to remind the speaker that, as here, he can speak and issue reports that we are currently discussing, it is good that the committee in question has full reason and the right to make concrete proposals to change legislation. Something that neither the President-in-Office of the Commission nor before has happened. There have been numerous related problems and signs of discrimination... during two years exceptional epidemiological grounds. Many people wanted to be protected by the Commission in question. Something that didn't happen. Something that they should at least as an independent body signal and signal that there is a problem. That didn't happen, I repeat. So when you spend a million and 200,000 a year on salaries, it's nice to do a lot more active work. It's not to take signals from grenades who think twice, and their entire existence goes from bringing in a person for a signal. No, you don't pay anything. They simply receive subsidies so that they can explain that Bulgaria is the worst place in Europe, the most discriminated and the most unpleasant place. You're instigating this thing by keeping quiet and not talking. More than that. Again: you have given nothing in particular in this Parliament or in the previous parliaments to say: change this in order to make Bulgaria a better place to avoid discrimination between these and these people. There's no such thing. That's why it's a million and 200,000 a year crime to go for you. 20 years at a million and 200,000. Do you realize how much people's money you spent on salaries? Here the explanations that you are defending and implementing Eurodirectives, I cannot accept them. We don't accept them from rebirth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u53	Thank you. Replices to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, before going to the vote, I would like to inform you that in the lobby of the European Corner this is in the eastern corridor of the first floor of the National Assembly, a photo exhibition will be opened. The exhibition is dedicated to the Forest Week. The exhibition presents the diversity of river forests in the territory of Bulgaria, which are included in the protected areas of the European ecological network. All MPs are invited. My fellow Members, I am voting on the draft decision proposed by the Commission. I'll read the Project again before we vote. Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2020 We are voting on the draft decision. Vote 163 MPs: 149, against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted item one of the agenda of the day. We move on to point two, namely: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCESS AND DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE STATEMENT OF THE PREPAYMENT OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATIVE SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY. An Internal Security and Public Order Committee report came in. Please, Mr. Atanasov, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 47-254-01-22, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 2 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 9 March 2022, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 47-254-01-22, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 2 March 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Evtim Kostadinov, Chairman of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The bill submitted complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The bill and its motives were presented by Mr. Atanasov. The proposed bill proposes to make some amendments and additions to specify that the Commission's power to disclose documents and to declare the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, hereinafter referred to as the Commission, to disclose the ownership of the persons examined under art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on access and disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, hereinafter referred to as the Law, is not a single act in view of the significant number of people and institutions that the Commission is examining. It has been pointed out that there is conflicting caselaw as to whether the Commission should take a second and subsequent decision with a operative statement stating the established and declared affiliation with the authorities under art. 1 of the Law on a specific person in the absence of new evidence, for which its decision has already been established and declared. The proposed changes will provide information to the public about how many of the persons examined in the various public spheres are available archive documents of belonging under art. 25 of the Law. The aim is to make public all available information on what field of public life the persons examined were involved in, ensuring the publicity, transparency and traceability of the information. Opinion in support of the bill expressed Mr. Evtim Kostadinov. Members of parliament from all parliamentary groups took part in the discussion. Two polar opinions were formed. One in support of the thesis that once delivered a decision declaring an established belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law of a person, the Commission should not rule by subsequent such decision upon an application for verification of the same person, but as a candidate for another public office where there is no new evidence within the meaning of art. 28 of the Law. In that case, the Commission should inform the applicant that the person has an established affiliation, referring to his already announced decision on the individual. The members of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee who support this opinion have expressed the opinion that the proposed changes will circumvent the Interpretation Decision No 12 of 2021 issued by the Supreme Administrative Court. The other point of view is that the proposed changes aim to address the problem of whether the Commission should rule by decision in any verification carried out by it. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results, the National Assembly proposed the adoption of a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 47-254-01-22, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 2 March 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u55	And thank you, General Atanasov. Is there an importer's opinion? Here you are, Mr. Slavov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Law really aims to overcome an interpretation practice in the Supreme Administrative Court of recent years, a caselaw which was imposed under the chairmanship of the previous President of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Kolev, with his prior experience from the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, and unfortunately continued by the current Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Cholakov. This practice, the current practice in the Supreme Administrative Court, is contrary to the ten-year old practice every time a check is carried out and a affiliation is established, or is already established belonging to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, to declare this affiliation. The initial practice in the Supreme Administrative Court and the Commission's practice has indeed been more adequate for one simple reason. This is how the preventive role of this law is played. Given that Bulgaria has never taken lustration as a form of attitude and overcoming the severe heritage of the recent past, it is only the declaration of belonging to the intelligence services of BNA and State Security that this form of prevention of the Bulgarian society in public life to enter after all people without dependence on the totalitarian regime. And we are trying, and what happens in the Supreme Administrative Court, this elementary, small, limited form of prevention to be lost. For example, if 10 years ago someone was a candidate for municipal councillor and was declared a State Security agent, now, if they are a candidate for a minister or become a minister, not to be disclosed because they were declared 10 years ago. Colleagues, who remembers that someone ten years ago was running for councilman?! Nobody remembers. Therefore, the proposal that "Democratic Bulgaria" has made is actually a bill which the Commission itself has developed and we supported by "Democratic Bulgaria" is every time a person is a candidate for public office, every time he takes such a public office and has information about his belonging to the State Security services and the Bulgarian People's Army, his belonging to be declared. This is how the preventive function of this law is implemented, and so is the right of society, of all of us as citizens, to know whether there are dependencies of people in the higher levels of power from totalitarian past, or not such dependencies. One more thing, guys. The Bulgarian Parliament actually owes the Commission for disclosure of documents, or in short, the Commission for Files, because this committee has expired. The fact that the Bulgarian Parliament continues to fail to fulfil its main function to renew the composition of the Commission is, unfortunately, a negative signal to the Bulgarian society for the meaning of the existence of this body. And the opinion of the "Democratic Bulgaria" as importers of the Bill is that we must continue to support this body in its important public mission, we must support this body, including for building research capacity to it, so that the Bulgarian society can get acquainted with the archives in a systematic way, to make it clear what things have been going on during the whole totalitarian regime, how our society has been subject to this totalitarian ideology. That's why I'm asking for your support. It's a matter of principle, it's not a question of revenge. The question is about a valuable choice that the Bulgarian society made before its membership in the European Union, of all the political forces from the left, from the center, from the right, this value choice to reaffirm it by supporting the Committee on Files, we also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u57	Thank you, Professor Slavov. I'm opening a discussion on the submitted bill. Peter Petrov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, colleague Slavov, I am opposed to describing from the parliamentary tribune what was the experience of the presidents of supreme courts, especially when there is a minimum of 15 years of experience in law enforcement behind them, and to point out which one ended where. I think we have nothing to do with law enforcement and I am against such words being spoken about the Bulgarian judges in the first place. Next, I would like to say to all Members of the National Assembly that the essence of this bill is... and it was really rightly noted by my colleague Slavov to circumvent an interpretive decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, note, signed by a total of 88 Supreme Judges! 88 supreme judges in Bulgaria with a huge internship in law enforcement accepted that it was not necessary to gather every time the entire composition of this committee, to simulate activity and to rule with a new decision on the same fact that it has already spoken. And instead of having a new request from an applicant in this Commission, to check whether a person has been an associate of State Security, instead of sending a reply from the President of the Commission, a simple letter signed by the President of the Commission, in which to write: according to his decision, on his or her date, from his or her meeting to that Commission, the person has been declared or has not been declared an associate of State Security, instead of such a simple letter, an attempt is now being made with this bill to justify a new collection, a re-decision, that is to say to justify the work of this structure, which, behold, I continue from the preceding point, we believe is parasitic and that it should be closed down. This is the essence of this bill, honourable MPs. We believe that, instead of changing, administrative procedures are made lighter, faster, shorter with the sending of such letters, the practice of the Supreme Administrative Court, which is subject to the process interpretation decision, will not be circumvented. Unfortunately, with this bill, we see only and only an attempt to create work for this Commission, something that I cannot agree with. What requires, each time under this bill, that the Commission be brought together and taken the same decision, provided that it cannot take a different decision from what was previously taken? That would be a precedent. Why is that necessary? Well, that won't be necessary. No one will come out here and tell me what is the need, once again, for the third or twentyth time, to gather the Commission and make a decision with the same operative! It is high time for this Commission to be closed down, to create an archive or an institute, as some colleagues have suggested, and there everyone who wants to make a reference, to make a reference, not to maintain n in number of members of this Commission, to pay salaries from the Bulgarian taxpayers, to inform us of the same thing that they have already made a decision about. Well, I don't understand that, honourable MPs. Have someone come out and explain it. That is precisely why we would not support this bill, because we believe it is absolutely pointless. Moreover, it is not right for us to adopt bills that clearly aim to circumvent a practice formed in the case by 88 judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, with such an attitude towards them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Cholakov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u60	Quick line, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Petrov, we have discussed this issue in the Commission and I think we agreed there that we are ultimately talking about a very small version of the Law, which should allow it to happen exactly what you are saying to not collect the Commission every time and to make a decision, as it says in the Law, about cases for which it has already decided, and simply by a letter from the President to be informed that the person concerned has or does not belong to the authorities. Perhaps the revision of the proposed bill is a bit clumsy, but we agreed that between first and second reading we would make the necessary editorials so that the meaning of what we want to do is precisely clarified, namely by a letter from the President, without it being necessary to collect the Commission, to ease the procedure, to satisfy the public interest and in no case to circumvent the Supreme Administrative Court, but to implement its decision precisely. What the court wants is for us to achieve it with a minor legislative change. As for the closure of the Commission, I think you have such an item on the agenda and it will be seen further. Again, my fellow Members, the concept of administrative reform must be a concept. Let's not think like this in a piece. Let's close this organ, let's close that organ because we don't like it or because the current president doesn't like us, or some member and because they annoy us. If there is consciousness, if there is willpower in this Parliament, it is a very long process, I am inclined to participate and help in this process, but let's think it conceptually so as not to make any such, how can I say, hasty speeches, don't give yourself, hasty performances. Our group in the Commission supported the project, and I hope it will support it now. Between first and second reading we will make the necessary editorials so as to achieve the objective of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Slavov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Petrov, of course, I cannot agree with your speech on several principled grounds. First of all, under the Constitution, the National Assembly is the legislative body. We adopt, according to the public interest, the laws that the court applies, and only when conflicting caselaw arises, it is necessary for the court to interpret the laws. But the primary is the law, not the interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court, no matter how many judges have signed it. And the fact that the Supreme Administrative Court over the years has changed its practice, which has imposed the interpretive decision, we, as legislators, are precisely from a public interest point of view. And what is this public interest? To have transparency in the processes of appointment of the higher levels of power, to make it clear whether there are links with the recent past and with totalitarian services, to have accountability. In terms of this public interest, the legislative proposal is made. This is not entering into the jurisdiction of the judiciary or any replacement of the will of a majority of judges in the Supreme Court. We legislate in terms of public interest and I thank Mr. Cholakov for his principled position and for the support of the Bill and the Commission. I hope this bill will also be supported in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u63	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Is there a third line, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I believe that public interest requires that we do not adopt bills that are solely aimed at creating work for an administrative structure when this is pointless. Colleague Cholakov, I remember what we talked about at the Internal Affairs Commission. I have not seen such changes as a practical person before I have seen them, I cannot protect such a bill. Let them be represented then, of course, we will sit down and discuss them both in the Commission and in the plenary. But I say again, the essence of this bill, as has been announced by my colleague Slavov, initially aims to circumvent this Interpretation Decision No 12 of the Supreme Administrative Court in the case of 2021. Since I have read it several times, I have seen that on top of that, it is signed and, unanimously, there are no particular opinions on it. Yes, we, as a legislative body, should adopt bills that may be interpreted in conflicting caselaw, but when we have a clear and firm interpretation of the Law, I believe that we do not need to start changing it immediately afterwards, provided that the procedure can only be changed on the basis of the interpretation decision alone. As my colleague Cholakov mentioned, technically, in one letter. And you do not need to hold a meeting of this Commission. Whether or not it should be closed if, life and health, we reach the next point, then we will discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Victoria Vassileva wanted the floor of speech. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to start by thanking my colleague Slavov for reminding us what our duty to the Commission is.. Let us call it for a brief while.............................. on the files, because its name is terribly long and difficult to pronounce. A committee that has been with an expired term for a year and a half has not even been filled as a member. In this order of thought, I continue to wonder why last week, when, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, there is such a people, we have put on the agenda a proposal to examine the Commission's rules of procedure, no one in this House has supported us to consider the rules of procedure for the election of this Commission. You are now recalling our duty to the citizens, to the people who work in this Commission, to the whole file issue at all. Yes, the file issue is extremely important. It will continue to be like a pus wound and will continue to poison the life of the Bulgarian political system until once and for all we put on the table everything, we open all the files, we do not tell the whole truth of the Bulgarian people about the Bulgarian transition. But this file issue comes out of nowhere at certain times to serve one purpose or another. Yes, this bill is most likely important. I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, I can't argue whether there's a caselaw around, whether it's really necessary, whether it's important. It must be important if you suggested it, it's probably important. You're a man who understands legal matters. The question is whether every time we don't like something in case law, we will change laws. Why do we make this exception only by this law... specifically for the Commission on Files?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u68	I'll be brief. Colleague Vasileva, the reason why the Rules of Procedure have not been submitted, is the only reason why the Rules for Members of the Constitutional Court and the Rules for the Supreme Judicial Council, for the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, have not been introduced. We all know what this reason is.. it is that we need to find the right people to make these rules. Only then should they be safely brought to the committees. You will also allow a slight reproach to you because you are part of this coalition, so it is up to you too. I would like to say that in the Legal Committee I am giving you an example at the last sitting I also asked what was going on with the Rules and when they will be imported. I got an answer soon. A month ago, I received the same answer soon. So, colleague Vasileva, this is the only reason for these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u69	Are there any other lines, colleagues? Mrs. Vassileva, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u70	Colleague Petrov, you have mistakenly adopted the rules. They were seen in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee and accepted. As I recall, he didn't even mind. Our proposal was for inclusion on the agenda of the National Assembly. Here they were rejected. Otherwise, they are a fact of being ready and we could, at the moment we accept them, proceed to the procedure for the election of the President and members of the Committee on Files.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am one of the importers of the Bill, and as it became clear to most of you, it was prepared by the Committee itself on Files, as we briefly call it. They have adopted this bill at their own meeting and have stood unanimously behind it. There is a consensus in the Bulgarian society that it should be clear when it belongs to State Security and when it comes to people in public positions, this information should be public and clear. This consensus has had it for a very long time. With the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, this consensus in practice stops acting, and not because the Court says that this information should not be disclosed, but because, according to the Court of Justice, there is a gap in legislation. That is, as the Law is written in its present form, one announcement is enough. However, we say something else: it must be clear who is who, colleagues. And since we've seen everything in this parliament, we'll be watching the vote. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic is here and we will all vote for the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. However, we want to see how others will act. There are groups that have always been of our opinion, however, we see that now a small part of them are in the Chamber. So we are putting you all on the political question: on this cornerstone what will you do? Will we keep the consensus clear about who is who in the Bulgarian policy? Because when 20 years ago someone was running for municipal councillor and was then declared in a small municipality, and now he is a candidate for MP, in the current order he should no longer be declared. And there's a huge risk that the public won't even know that this man belongs to Homeland Security. And there are people in this room who say they don't want this information to be public, they don't want transparency and they don't want accountability. There are two sides to the question. Those who have declared their support, I call on you: how you will support... with one vote, with two votes, with five votes. This is also an important issue. So we will keep the outcome of this vote because such debates will not only be held in this Parliament, there will also be in the future, this, as I said, is a cornerstone theme of Bulgarian politics. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a judgment of the Constitutional Court in Case No 14/2011, which speaks of the right to the informed choice which citizens receive with the legislation to establish the belonging of the persons of government positions in the State of State security. There is also a Decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 5 December 2017, which speaks of improving the transparency of public life and contributes to increasing trust in institutions and so on. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are actually two options. One is to stop already declaring belonging to the State Security for a large circle of individuals who have been announced in the last 30 years, which is a huge problem. That would be a severe damage, that shouldn't be allowed. And the other is to support our bill. Now those who do not want to support it, they find their reasons. We know some of those reasons. They say that it was an administrative burden for the Commission to announce it twice. It's too complicated for them! Why would they meet again at a meeting when 30 years ago they announced it, or someone announced it, or 10 years ago?............................................... I'm sorry, but that's kindergarten talk, casual people. So I turn to this half-full, unfortunately, room with a call, first of all, to return to the National Assembly and take a position, not to hide. If you don't think there should be a declaration of belonging to DHS, say so. However, we have managed to reach a great consensus in previous parliaments, and this consensus I suggest that we keep it clear who is who, to make it clear who is who, and now that public positions are elected, to make their informed decisions. That's what this is about. So, ladies and gentlemen, tell us. Don't hide, tell each other, vote. However, if you support, colleagues, support properly, not with two people in the group, not with three people in the group. If you are going to support and say later, because people will ask you: "When it was that debate in Parliament, should there be clarity on who they are from the Security of the State?" "And you will say: "Well, yes, we have. ".............................................................. were two, were you three or were, or were the entire parliamentary group made that decision. I call on your fellow Members to support this bill, tabled by "Democratic Bulgaria" but drawn up by the Committee on Files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Georgi Svilenski, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I will make it easy for you not to observe the BSP group. We will not support the bill. My advice is to find another cornerstone. Thirty years this cornerstone has become very round and these dependencies hardly interest the Bulgarian society anymore. Today, the Bulgarian society is interested in other dependencies of economic dependence. This is the kind of committee that you make dependents on economic lobbies that tell MPs how to vote or ministers how to vote or advisors how to vote. And what you said that the Law was written in the Commission, I propose that the checks be carried out before everyone is nominated, that they be announced and after the election to be announced again. And for New Year's Eve, because the parliament has a one-month vacation there, to check them again, if something happened during this one year..... three times within a mandate so that the Bulgarian society is informed that these bad agents of State Security and the Bulgarian People's Army did not accidentally fall off the list. Because this city councillor, who was 30 years ago in a given municipality to be elected, there people know him. He didn't become a city councilman because they found him on the street. And when they offer him as a deputy or as a minister, they know him, too. But clearly you want this cornerstone to still be pushed. I don't know how old these people are anymore, but let's roll this stone. But again I say to you, seek another stone, this stone has already become rounded, shaped, all is clear, all are known, all know them. Many people have slandered themselves, by the way, during these 30 years, served Bulgaria dignifiedly. But as you wish. To relieve you, the BSP parliamentary group will not support it and 25 more times to import it. Between first and second reading our support will not get it, I hope all reasonable MPs will also. Let's think about what the Bulgarian citizens care about prices, incomes and other dependencies, which are reflected in each vote. You know when more interesting bills come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line.. Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I would like to focus on this part of your speech on the consensus in the Bulgarian society. I also referred to this consensus reached in the process of joining the European Union. And we really need to stress that this was a consensus that included the Bulgarian Socialist Party in its ruling government of Mr. Stanishev. That is to say, this was a European value consensus regardless of the political past, regardless of ideology, regardless of the current vicious issues of political support or campaign. And it is around this consensus that we call for our position to be built. We call on us to base our support on this bill precisely on this consensus. And here I think there should be no excluded political parties. The question, fellow Members, is not ideological. It's a matter of value. The question is: do we want transparency, accountability, responsibility of people holding senior public positions, or do we want any stages of their personal past, the time of the communist regime, to still prejudge some of their decisions? Unfortunately, we have often seen these addictions. That's what we want to be free of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there a third line, colleagues? Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u78	Mr. Chairman, I'm about to make my speech, but now my line is this. Mr. Dimitrov took the liberty of telling an untruth from this tribune so I wouldn't say the right word. Because if you log on now to the website of the committee in question and see not the government's anti-corruption search engine, but the site search engine and write down a name, such as Peter Vodenski, or write down any name, you will get all checked out. All seven, eight, ten, fifteen, have seventeen checks. So don't lie, because you're lying that it can't be made clear to a city councilman who was tested 30 years ago. No, you can't! And that's what you do, you use it as a bat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! What is important in this case is: not to enter, Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, on the Commission's website, and when there are important events, the Commission should announce the persons who belong to the State Security, because this event is the announcement, involving many people and the public understands what is happening. Then there's good awareness of the citizens, they know who they choose and they judge how they like this commitment, if they don't like it, if they have a problem, if they don't have a problem. Let people have the opportunity, based on this awareness, to make their decisions. However, colleagues, I would like to point out to you that the Committee on Files, as we all call it, has stopped practically announcing for the second time persons belonging to the DS. That is, the cornerstone, the consensus that we have achieved together in the past, is no longer working. That's why this bill has been tabled. The consensus has been violated, it is no longer functioning. Now, colleagues of ARCHIVER are clear, with you there is nothing to comment on this topic. My question is to the others: do you want this consensus to continue to exist? Do you want people to be informed, to be clear about who is who, especially when taking up senior government positions? If you want to support this bill firmly, because it is already happening so that people will not know, they will not get this information unless they come in looking for it themselves, and you cannot expect such action from society. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two options: either now that you are not in the Chamber and to decide that you will not participate in the vote, but tomorrow you will say: but how we agreed, our two most important MPs voted for the House; or to take this categorical and reasoned decision the consensus in question for transparency, for publicity to be preserved. After all, people can judge and people, knowing who is who, can make their best decision. I call on you, my fellow Members, to support our bill drawn up by the Committee on Files, because let us move forward, towards more and not less transparency; towards more accountability, not less accountability. It's very important to know which one is which. You know, when we want to reveal the various ties, State Security is the beginning, but I agree that we should move on. That's true! So I urge you to return to the Chamber those who are not, and all together... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u81	Colleagues, please, not from the spot! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u82	...to make an important decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Bikov, everyone has the right to speak in the time they are given. Come in for a statement, Mr. Hristov. [[Noise and lines.]] For a statement, Mr. Ganev? And I'm recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB-SDS parliamentary group will support this proposal. However, I, Mr. Dimitrov, would like to address you. You have stated several times that the hall is half empty, pointed out the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, but also the people of your parliamentary group at this stage are not here. I will remind you that I had spoken to the Commission before you had spoken to it, and you said to me: let us take our time now, we will agree, we will bring it safely together. Why didn't we bring it in together is another topic. You want to receive the strong support of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group, and when I had taken initiatives and agreed that we could submit it together, you did not. You want to stand out, it's okay. Bulgaria did not pass a law on lustration and for one reason or another this did not happen. Of course, there is blame for this SDS and we carry our cross, but because of the lack of law on lustration we need this law, we need this committee and we need this amendment that you have tabled. This amendment enables indeed those who were announced some time ago, and because of the court's practice that this thing does not happen, to be announced again. Of course, voters are entitled or not to choose someone who is present on the list of municipal councillors, whether or not they are a representative of the National Assembly, but the public will be informed. The voters of separate political formations who said they would not confirm this bill, like their former agents and support them, but the rest of us at least know who these representatives are. As far as consensus is concerned, it is indeed violated. I would just like to remind that this committee was not only adopted during the time of Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev, but it is headed by a representative of BSP Mr. Kostadinov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It was the initiative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and this thing is true, I take it into account, so let us unite around this proposal, regardless of how it was put in place, to support it, and this committee will be okay if every time elections approach, it announces empathy for the State Security and other totalitarian authorities, because it is a permanent authority and that is its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For a line from the DPS? Here you go. Then the second line of Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Hristov, I am provoked by the speech and, more precisely, the words you said at the beginning of your speech, that is, you are going to take an initiative and say: wait for it to take some time now. For me, the essence of this problem is different. Dear colleagues, State Security has been a curling iron in the hands of the communist regime, of the communist rule, and that is precisely the problem in this whole situation. Of course, for individual bills, I will not stop. If many of the employees of the State Security are no longer among us, but today, I do not say in this House, are heard by their sons voices that say..................... we are the greatest Democrats. Mr. Hristov, I am counting on this today and thank you for the details you have submitted. Colleagues, the problem is not State Security, the problem is the communist government, which has been in Bulgaria for 45 years. And today, in order not to repeat these things, we hear voices in this direction. That's my line to you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u88	I also had no intention of dealing with this bill, but you challenged me with your attitude towards our parliamentary group. Mr. Hristov, I am one of the people who was declared by the State Security as an enemy of the people before 1989, and officially, I know the situation then very well. But I also know a lot of things. You thus, with a shifting meaning sentence, stated that the SDS carried its cross. The cross is very heavy, Mr. Hristov, because when we go back in history and when we get the files that have been pulled from the Commission, you have seen how many of the leading SDS agents have turned out to be State Security agents. You remember that thing from the highest level. I fully agree with the words of Georgi Svilenski here that now, in an extremely difficult period, a period that requires unification of the nation requires the search and resolution of its biggest problems, which he so carefully tried to describe them, and I think he largely succeeded, to continue to rotate in the past and to remove skeletons from the wardrobe. Moreover, with these files before the Commission was created, you know how many manipulations were carried out? I'm sure you know, and so do I. And that is why I am sick that intelligent people, such as colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria", having a good idea, undoubtedly unwittingly become participants in starting a digging in the past, looking for... I would like to say to Mr. Dimitrov, whom I deeply respect, even if the consensus has been violated, I do not accept that the consensus has been violated, but once a declared agent of State Security, on lists of MPs and candidates or for municipal councillors, as soon as he reappears in the media, he is immediately painted as such. There is no forgiveness there, Mr. Dimitrov, there is no forgiveness. So I don't see much weight in what we are discussing right now, and that is one of the reasons why I personally suffered, but really very hard suffering from this committee 30 years ago, I wouldn't allow myself to support so easily. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u89	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hristov, when you once won all the power with little but forever, you had the wonderful opportunity to accept the Law on Lustration, you didn't because you had to polish all the leadership of the UDF then, all your ministers, deputy ministers and people in the different structures of power. And as far as the cross is concerned, it's not your cross. Your cross is that you introduced the outlaw privatization leadership with my favorite, and the favorite of DPS Prokopiev. That's another topic. [[Applause from DPS.]] Your cross is that you destroyed agriculture, so stop speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u91	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, there were agents in the ranks of the Union of Democratic Forces. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, there were agents in place, and because of these implemented agents, the Law on Lustration was not adopted at the beginning of democratic change. Because of these infiltrating agents, the SDS was destroyed afterwards, and you know very well how this happened. Yeah, it was a mistake that we 1991 didn't pass the lustration law. At least keep the Commission's ability to show people's empathy to the secret services to remain operational in the future. Mr. Mihailov, the very fact that you are a member of parliament means that your constituents have nothing against people like you. It is their right, everyone has the right to make their choice, but our thesis is that all citizens must know who they are and this must continue until there are still living, empathetic to those totalitarian services. As far as Mr. Georgiev is concerned, or the accusation of carrying the cross and privatization and agriculture, and so on, let's not go into this enchanted circle, because I'll say, yes, yes, I'll tell you that several times you're bankrupting the state, you're bankrupting 17 banks, you're making $3,000. BGN, you're having a cereal crisis and more, and a lot more. Bulgaria is last in the European Union precisely because of the Bulgarian Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u93	Mr. Christov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u94	...and now again you are the problem of Bulgaria, not the others, and they will understand it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u95	Mr. Christov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u96	...but on the hard road. They'll find out the hard way! Because when the other countries made privatisation, I mean Balcerovic in Poland, and Klaus in the Czech Republic, and the Troyhands agency in Germany, we were all in one place here. The changes in Bulgaria started seven years later and that is why we are in the last place because of you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u97	Thank you, Mr. Christov. For a personal explanation? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u98	Mr. Hristov, you must listen carefully to the statements of the MPs and you are still not listening to me right now. That's what you said, not to say the right word, stupidity, but false fact. I have not expressed from this tribune that I have been empathetic with the authorities of State Security, but that I have been declared an enemy of the people. Did you hear me? And you said the exact opposite here from the stands. No, no, I got it right. You are expressing yourself in a way that is wrong and to the detriment of a political force. I have tried to tell you that as a person, and not many Bulgarian socialists have suffered from State Security, there are other people here who have suffered from State Security, but they are not putting this issue in this way now, as we have other important repers at the moment of the nation. That's what I tried to tell you, and you came out of the stands and said something that was so different and so untrue that I felt extremely uncomfortable, and if you were shy, you should apologize to me. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u99	Thank you, Professor Mihailov, for keeping the good tone in your personal explanation. To speak, Tsoncho Ganev is listed. Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u100	Mr. Chairman, this is an extremely unpleasant subject that we need to discuss once again. It is extremely unpleasant, because even now there are students here who were not born when these people you want to continue to overwhelm were working for the state. It is a fact that, as Mr. Dimitrov said, the revival and the Democratic Bulgarias have nothing in common in every respect. [[Applause from DB.]] The fact is that today Bulgaria has read a declaration to send weapons to Ukraine. The fact is that they want our economy to collapse completely, as Bulgaria imposed and participated in even more stringent sanctions against the Russian Federation. The fact is that at the moment we are discussing a bill that costs our country nearly 4.5 million just this year, and by going back 17 years, I want to tell you that according to the budgets that have been annually almost 70 million of our money You can't go on for 32 years looking for people who have either died or at a bowed age and in no way participate anywhere. But to reheat an old meal without an excuse, it costs our taxpayer and us 4 1/2 million this year alone. Just for this year! And you'll keep digging there. Sorry very much, your guiding light Ivan Kostov refused to introduce lustration. Why? Because you can't explain that either, because you're gonna puke and explain everything else, but you're not gonna explain why you didn't introduce lustration. I agree, no problem, but you refused this thing, you had all the power in this country here and in the court and the prosecution everywhere, but you refused. And right now you want to spend government money. Is 70 million in all these years enough for you? It's not enough, you want more. There's no way we can support something that... By the way, you have an e-government minister. He comes out here Martin Dimitrov and says: Our people are not ripe to check on the Internet. Withdraw the gentleman in question from being the minister of e-government. What are we doing there, and what are we going to introduce? You can shake hands until tomorrow, but it is a fact that all of this is happening on the back of people who have risked their lives for Bulgaria, served worthy of Bulgarian intelligence, risked their lives in foreign, enemy countries of Bulgaria, and you are currently comparing them to snitches. This is what you are doing on the back of the Bulgarian taxpayer. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For a replica, Stoyl Stoilov and then Elena Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, I don't know how it came to the topic of electronic control. So far, it's been out-of-party and consensual. I hope you will withdraw this statement, specifically for e-government, because it is clear to everyone that there is more to do in e-government. We need to work more for digital competence in our people. So I'm hoping we can do it together, not make this some sort of dividing line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u103	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Elena Guncheva for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ganev, you neglected to say a few things. There are two things in the last 30 years that have led to the break-up of the Bulgarian intelligence, the scandal that most of you very conveniently do not remember, and the second is the Committee on Files. What I also didn't hear in this room is that there were several departments in State Security, and only one of them was involved in politics. Bulgarian scouts who risked their lives for the Bulgarian state worked in the other departments. These scouts, these people who worked for Bulgaria, this commission puts them at risk. Many of them had their fate ruined. Many decent people have been publicly condemned. Many decent people have lost their jobs. Many decent people currently cannot contribute with their professionalism to state security at the moment, to our national security, precisely because of the work of this committee, which does not limit the person who has snitched against his fellow students, the one who has risked his life to protect the interests of Bulgaria. I'd like to ask you to think about one more thing. Our national security is being breached right now, that's clear. But how do we recruit new scouts, given that, for example, in 10 years, another commission will decide to disclose their names and they will be subjected to public condemnation. This issue is indeed from national security and I call on the Democratic Bulgaria to finally stop with these Euro-Atlantic outbursts and finally start working in the interests of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. The third line is atanas Slavov. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Ganev, from the debate that took place on the basis of your speech, one thing has become clear. In our parliament, we have a true successor of the Bulgarian Communist Party and this is a rebirth. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]] With your zealous defense of the communist past and of the totalitarian communist apparatus, you are indeed a worthy successor of the party. Against the background of the BSP are a true European left-wing party, allowing us to be in coalition with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u108	It is extremely exciting to listen to the ultra-liberals of the "Democratic Bulgaria" against the backdrop of double-digit inflation, against the backdrop of bankrupt companies, against the backdrop of the poorest people in the whole European Union, against the background of all that we have at the moment in our country, to talk, to take parliamentary time and to fight the skeletons in the wardrobe. It is extremely exciting to have an e-government minister who has not yet introduced the necessary legislative changes and is running an agency. At the same time, a year ago, this same minister sits and explains how it takes just a few amendments to several laws so that everything can start happening in e-government, and for almost three months the same person does nothing and there is nothing tabled, and there is nothing to discuss. This shows what kind of legislative activity you are developing in this Parliament because you are only dealing with Putin, Russia, anything but the current problems of our people. These are your problems, but unfortunately, these are not the problems of our people. Unfortunately for you, of course, because it is much more important to discuss economic problems right now, to discuss the energy sector, to discuss all that is to come than to search where you will find nothing. I understand the boredom of all this stuff that's happening, but it doesn't exactly honor people who have claims to be modern and thinking forward, to look back only and only, nowhere else, only backwards, and at the same time to take out skeletons and heat things that have no weight, because the people you are currently allowing to tarnish once again are worthy scouts. Whether the birth is an heir to the BCP, ask BSP to tell you because you just hit them very badly. They're coalition partners with you, by the way. We have nothing to do with the BCP, on the contrary, morally you have something to do with the BCP, because when you had to do the lustration in question, your Prime Minister then, I could also show you quotes from the media that day, categorically declines. He says it's unnecessary, says it's going to cause discord in society and that it's a completely late trial. This whole thing, I say again, is not up to date and has nothing to do with the current problems of our society, a society that is divided, a society that is economically poor, a society that disappears into its demographic crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I just didn't understand why you're addressing "Democratic Bulgaria" although the SDS are represented in parliament. But that's your right. Mr. Karadayi, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and at first reading will support this bill not because this bill solves the issues related to inflation, galloping prices, or solves the issues of small farmers that we close them and destroy them at the moment, or even improves the socio-economic environment and lifestyle of Bulgarian citizens, and these are the current issues of Bulgarian citizens today. But anyway, since this bill is on the agenda, we will support it. But I would also like to remind you of a few things that have been said today. For example Mr. Hristov reminded from the hall, which was good, a little with the help of the natural fact that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the initiator of this bill at the beginning and this law is a fact thanks to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. That's true. From then on, however, let us come essentially to the Law, because there are some things that have been mentioned in time. Let's say who is responsible for the 30-year transition in Bulgaria. I can talk about the period in which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms took part in the country's governance. For example, after privatization 2001, the country's debt was over 17 billion, I am talking about the country's net debt in a broken economy. From 2001 to 2009 The net debt 2009 is about 1 billion. On average, 2 billion debt went back in those eight years when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms took part in power. It can then be seen for comparison that, for example, at the end of 2020, the country's debt is over 20 billion. So in those ten years, there's a new debt accumulated over 20 billion. That means, on average, 2 billion debt was piling up at the time. And the data for 2021 has now come out very soon, another 2 billion debt from above. Here is a comparison of who, when, how he managed and what happened when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms took part in the country's governance. That is why Mr. Ganev says that 17 times a person has been checked, which cost 70 million to the Bulgarian taxpayer, this was more or less the wording. Yes, Mr. Ganev, you may be, you may be right, but democracy is expensive. It is expensive democracy and we must protect democracy because, when we were supposed to defend the rights, freedoms and democracy in Bulgaria, some of the citizens have kept quiet and that is why today we, as democrats, must defend democracy. We all have to go this way together. Not only are you right that according to your assessment, we should be with the Euro-Atlantic values here in this Chamber and defend these values, defend the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens, defend democracy in Bulgaria, and this is what we should do. And specifically as for the Bill, there is a judgment that says: Second and subsequent Commission decisions are not necessary when a person is declared. However, on the other hand, there is such a situation as to why Bulgarian citizens should dig themselves and look for an ace whether someone has been announced or not in the years after the Commission may remind who has been announced and who has not been announced. From this point of view, we will support this bill with the idea that, between first and second readings, this text, which is now proposed, will receive a good enough editing so that the Commission does not have to announce the same person 17 times and once it has been announced, when it is once again in the category of persons of the Commission and is checked, the Commission will say to the extent that, with its decision, the person in question has been announced, that is to say, he belonged to the structures of State Security at that time, which is the purpose of this law. This is how I understand this bill, and that is why at first reading we will support it with the idea that between first and second reading will find the correct editing. Alternatively, that one person is once withheld and that we can count on Bulgarian citizens to seek out who, when and why it was announced, for us is equal to silence, and the silence for us is equal to covering up those events that happened back then. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DPS. Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u111	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u112	No, Mr. Karadayi, the Bulgarian people in their huge part refuse to confess Euro-Atlantic values. Just because there are six parties here that stand behind these Euro-Atlantic values, and we don't recognize them at the age does not mean that the Bulgarian people want them. Something much more important. When will the people in this room get used to the idea that the Bulgarian people can make their own decisions, decide for themselves what is important to him, what is right for him and what should happen to him? Because it is high time for the Bulgarian people to be asked. As it is high time to trust the Bulgarian people whether they want information to be there or not. Because what you said again, I recall, is worth 4 and a half million on this year's budget only, given that this information is available on the site, given that in this budget we have a whole Minister of Democratic Bulgaria with his adjoining administration, nothing doing, and on this background we want another parasitic organ to endure. No, the Bulgarian people, when it is important, will find the necessary information, which, after all, I say again, is public and there is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u113	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karadaye, I agree with a great deal of yours. In essence, this amendment of the Law makes sense. The point is that this point has not been submitted in order to give more information about State Security and so on. It was imported so it wouldn't get to our fifth point, which is about setting up an inquiry committee for the GEMCORP affair, which is why it's this long debate about a technical amendment, because it's a technical amendment. By the way, the whole debate on the meaning of State Security, which I see in the Programme, is going to be held tomorrow, is a smokescreen. I'm going to tell this to the colleagues who have been here for over an hour, and an hour and a half, we've been debating about State Security. It's becoming a smoke issue again, and that's not fair to the people who have suffered from State Security. To use this topic to shift the corruption scandal, in which the entire Bulgarian government is currently turning around, it is extremely unfair to the victims of the communist regime, to use them again to divert attention and to do some things here. [[Looks at the right side of the room]] I'm sure the debate wouldn't have lasted more than 10 minutes, but it's been going on for hours. That's the reason. Unfortunately, over the last 30 years.. because this topic has been used in a conjunctual way for political purposes, and not in order to reach some national memory and some national consensus..... therefore we have not closed it, and we will not close it, because we will continue this way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Letifov for line three. Personally, it seems to me that the statements of opposition representatives are more than those of the ruling coalition. Here you are, Mr. Letifov. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a time that regulates the time of parliamentary groups, so it does not matter who has used it for how much it is personal will. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Karadayi, my line is for you and with one request. As if you spared the House by not revealing the entire transition. Why? We are talking today about State Security, about its offspring and what has happened in the democratic world thanks to State Security, but somehow we felt sorry for this privatisation, which was carried out by the heirs of state security, who also quoted Mr. Georgiev. What happened to their privatization? Why has no one been bothering them for more than 20 years, and they have submitted ministers of GERB to these offspring? This is what we heard from the recognition of the leader of GERB that they have submitted ministers, that they have the last 20 years ministers, those who participated in the privatisation, and are heirs of the once communist party. Why do we pity them? Isn't this the backstage behind us, and we don't dare to point it out and say, "The problems are from there" and these generate problems, they hang like a millstone and democracy, and those values that... Euro-Atlantic values are human values of rights, of freedoms. Those who are chosen here are chosen by the people, they are not impostors. The people have made this choice of value, and the failure of the government is not a failure of these values; things must differ. Remember that, Mr. Karadaye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u117	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. You have the floor, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, about the Euro-Atlantic values and the refusal of the Bulgarian people to share these values and who represents the people and speaks on behalf of the people, I can only say that in representative democracy the Bulgarian people speak through their representatives. That is also true under the Constitution, that is, we are called here to speak on behalf of the Bulgarian people and to solve the problems of Bulgarian citizens, so we are here to improve their lives. Otherwise, as far as Euro-Atlantic values are concerned, the choice of a Movement for Rights and Freedoms is said by this tribune here in the distant 1991 that Bulgaria should be part of NATO and the European Union. Bulgaria became a member of NATO and the European Union when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms took part in the country's governance, and today we continue to defend these values. To our delight, in their vast majority, the MPs and the Bulgarian people share these values. To Mr. Bikov. Mr. Bikov, you're right. Yeah, it's just another change change change. This power, this government is self-called change, but it's a replacement. There are some topics on which it is not very comfortable to talk. I hope that even the fifth point will come today, but anyway, when the debate is on this point, it is still good to say our vision. As for Mr. Letifov. Mr. Letifov, you're right, unfortunately I agree with you. The heirs of the communist nomenclature, unrealized at the end of communism, tried to occupy the right side of Bulgaria at the dawn of democracy and to engineer throughout the political spectrum. Their business is from privatization gifts. If checked, it could also be thefts from the privatisation, today are media monopoly and try to be the bearers of the only truth in Bulgaria. The real backstage is this. Yeah, you're referring to the circle of Capital and everyone who's there. You're right! Unfortunately, it is true, but all of us here in the National Assembly, if we are to fight this backstage, must also make an effort. Unfortunately, however, this behind-the-scenes has the respective proxy in both the National Assembly and today's government of the state. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u119	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? [[The National Representative Atanas Atanasov wants the floor for speech.]] Mr. Atanasov, let's continue the discussion after the break. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] I'm sorry, it's been a long time since 11:30. We won't keep the tradition. Colleagues, 30-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u120	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. General Atanasov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this heated debate on the bill shows that this topic is extremely important. If it wasn't important, there wouldn't be these speeches and this opposition. I understand that there is a majority in plenary to support this bill, for which I thank in advance the Members of the National Assembly who will support it. He's needed. It is necessary to have transparency and to have awareness of the Bulgarian citizens when they have to make a certain choice. Because the main checks are carried out before parliamentary elections before the local elections. The elections for mayors and municipal councilors, and so on, and it is important that Bulgarian citizens have information. In addition, when appointing certain important positions in the state, it is good to know what the past has and whether I should emphasise what was said by pre-spokesmen, whether the person who is offered or will take a certain position in the state has any dependencies, namely the announcement of the persons who have been involved in the repressive apparatus of the communist regime, in some sense preside over these dependencies. I want to say a few things that I think are important. There must be a difference, of course, between those who were officers and those who were recruited as collaborators. Here I want to tell you that I have read thousands of pages and indeed every case is different. There are people who have been declared or have been empathetic to these services, and were practically victims. That's true. It is therefore also important to know and be able to get people to know all the information about how a person got into these networks. Of course, there are those who are proud to have served in these services. Here, I would like to quote from memory a decision by the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party, which is written as follows: For officers in the State Security to be appointed sons and daughters of the Bulgarian people, irrevocably faithful to the Bulgarian Communist Party and to the friendship with the Soviet Union. This has been checked. And there's something else I want to point out to you because it's important. Some say now: "This topic is no longer pointless. " - No! People who need to be checked are now at their most active age. These are people over the age of 50 in Bulgaria and you need to know who was where and what they were for. There's something else I'd like to say, because this is where the question was raised. The Constitutional Court of Bulgaria more than 25 years ago practically mutilated this procedure and it is good to see who were the constitutional judges who voted against it then and whether they were dependent on State Security. When this law was passed, I was a member of parliament for the first time in the 40th National Assembly and I remember very well that the initiative for this bill was on a movement for rights and freedoms and this bill was supported by the MPs of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. This is important. Then the reasons were to make it clear, ultimately, before we entered the European Union, that we had broken up with the past, and now in some sense an attempt is being made to go back. I ask you very much to support the bill so that this process can continue, not only on announcements, but also on those who make decisions, but also on those who vote, can make their informed choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any lines to Atanas Atanasov? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't either. I'm calling off the debate. Colleagues, we are going to the first vote of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 47-254-01-22, submitted by Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs. Please vote regime. Vote 138 MPs: 109 against 28, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u123	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u124	Okay, re-vote. Colleagues, re-vote! They voted 144 MPs: 111, against 28, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda. We move on to point three, which is the proposal by the party ARRANGEMENT, made in accordance with the order of art. 47, para. 8 of the CMS, namely: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO TERMINATE A AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE United States FOR COOPERATION IN THE AREA OF ARGUED, No 47-254-02-18, SENT BY COSTADIN TODOROV COSTADINOV AND A GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. A report has been submitted by the Committee on Foreign Policy on the Draft Decision. I ask a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy to present the report. Here you are, Mrs. Lubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to terminate an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation, No 47-254-02-18, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 26 January 2022. At a joint meeting held on 31 March 2022, the Defence Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee examined a draft decision to terminate an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the importer Kostadin Kostadinov. He noted that the Agreement was concluded to the detriment of the Bulgarian interests for the bases of the School Polygon Novo selo, the warehouse facilities in Aitos and the air bases in Bezmer and Count Ignatievo. They are not paid rent by the US government, the servicemen and the staff enjoy a number of tax and other reliefs. The Agreement provides that U.S. aircraft and vehicles are not to be inspected and that they do not pay fees for passing through our airspace, port charges, light or parking fees. Bulgaria is intended not to enjoy its priority right to criminal jurisdiction and to have no right to detain and sue U.S. servicemen when committing a crime on Bulgarian territory. [[Replications between the MPs Atanas Atanasov and Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u126	Mr. Karadaye, a little quieter, please! [[The two MPs are coming out of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u127	Mr. Kostadinov stressed that our country should definitely not allow foreign troops into its territory and it is necessary to take action to strengthen the defense capacity of the Bulgarian army as the sole guarantor of the sovereignty of our country. He insisted that the Agreement be terminated because it undermines national sovereignty, dignity and even the territorial integrity of the state. Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov and Deputy Foreign Minister Velislava Petrova presented opinions of the two ministries on the draft decision. Deputy Minister Petrova noted that according to the updated National Security Strategy adopted by the National Assembly on 14 March 2018, the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria is indivisible from the security of the European Union and NATO and Bulgaria has certain international commitments to NATO under the North Atlantic Treaty. Bulgaria and the US interact in terms of strategic partnership and allied relations with NATO. The European Union also sees the US as its priority strategic partner, and the transatlantic dialogue traditionally covers a wide range of topics. She noted that a 10-year roadmap for cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States in the field of defence is being worked on, which was signed in October 2020 in Washington. This roadmap itself represents a natural consequence and a continuation of this Defence Agreement. They, although separated, are interrelated and the joint use with the US armed forces of the sites and facilities represented in the Agreement significantly contributes to the improvement of the interoperability and effective preparation of the Bulgarian armed forces. Deputy Minister Petrova stressed that as a responsible and constructive NATO member, Bulgaria should strengthen the operational capacity and combat capabilities of its armed forces, as well as continue its contribution to strengthening NATO defence potential, including through bilateral co-operation with members of the Alliance. In this sense, the proposal for the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation may be contrary to the commitments set out not only for strategic partnership with the United States, but also to the other NATO allies. This could lead to undermining the national security of the country and isolation. Deputy Minister Petrova noted that legal arguments should also be taken into account with regard to the procedure to denounce the Agreement. From the point of view of the applicable provisions and the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the denouncement of an international treaty to which Bulgaria is a party is initiated by the Council of Ministers, which proposes by its decision of the National Assembly to denounce an international treaty. At the end of his exhibition Deputy Minister Petrova stressed that according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the termination of the Agreement would be detrimental to our national security and undermine our relations with NATO allies. Minister Zakov noted that under the text of the Agreement, the purpose of the agreements reached between the governments of the two countries is to express their desire to strengthen and deepen bilateral defence cooperation. The strategic dialogue in defence and especially the use of joint facilities facilitates the implementation of the objectives and priorities of the National Assembly adopted in 2021 Programme for the development of the defence capabilities of the armed forces until 2032. US investments to build and improve the infrastructure of the contracted facilities contribute to increasing the level of preparation of the Bulgarian formations and to achieving declared interoperability. Joint facilities provide a valuable opportunity to conduct various exercises and preparations, thanks to which practical combat experience is shared and modern tactics, techniques and procedures are developed. The deepening and expansion of bilateral political-military relations and contacts between Bulgaria and the United States brings practical benefits to our country and provides good opportunities for building and developing the capabilities of the Bulgarian armed forces, as well as for improving their interoperability. Minister Zakov stressed that the possible termination of the contract would lead to a reduction of the opportunities for preparation of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as much of the international preparation is financed by the US country. He said that the Agreement has much more benefit for the Bulgarian Armed Forces than for the Americans. The negative consequences for the Bulgarian armed forces will be both in terms of their abilities and in terms of their reputation as a loyal and reliable ally. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Defence Committee with 1 vote for abstention, 15 votes against abstention and 1 vote for abstention, 11 votes against abstention, proposed that the National Assembly not accept the draft decision to terminate an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation, No 47-254-02-18, submitted by Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 26 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Lubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u129	You're welcome for an opinion from the importers. You have the floor, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u130	Mr President, before I set out the reasons for the particular decision to be taken, I would just like to read the two points to be adopted: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has decided: 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to immediately take action to terminate the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation, signed on 28 April 2006, with one year's diplomatic notice. 2. Obliges the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria within one month from the promulgation of the Decision to draft and submit to the National Assembly a report on the property, labour, defence and other consequences of termination of the agreement, a report on the ownership of the bases, the expenses incurred by Bulgaria during the operation of the agreement, the revenue received, the total number of military and civilian persons who used the bases for the period of operation of the agreement. This is the decision to be voted on. More important, however, are the motives. For the reasons that we have, I will read a member of the Treaty, which is signed between Bulgaria and the United States, and not as explained for years, between Bulgaria and NATO, and not as it seems to the public that this is part of NATO and we are in NATO, and, respectively, these bases are not wrong to be here. These bases are from the United States, they are used by the United States, and they are the only American military bases in the world that are provided free of charge. There is no other country that has given bases free of charge. [[Heckling]] But more importantly, what is stated by the current minister of military discussions in the Commission: The Basis are an extremely important element and a long-standing commitment to modernization of the army. This, without an apology, is a complete cynicism to announce that foreign military bases are part of the modernization of the Bulgarian army, provided that we have received absolutely nothing free from the United States. Mr. Zakov's next statement: If there are no bases, national security will be undermined. Excuse me, these bases are protecting us from who exactly and when exactly were they protecting us? A next quote from his statement: "If there are no military bases, they will reduce the opportunities for preparing our army. " For those who do not know, these bases are used only by American soldiers. They land and take off planes that aren't controlled and no one knows what they're bringing in and out. The next very important statement of the Minister of Defence: The U.S. Defence Act applies in the military bases. "At the same time, the Bulgarian legislation in the bases in question does not apply on the Bulgarian territory. Now, point on the point of the contract in question, which is signed and which must, because I doubt, or rather maybe units of you are familiar with the contract in question what exactly is included in it. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: I'd rather start with Art. 15. 5, since let's do it chronologically. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 says: "The Russian Federation can have materials and supplies on Bulgarian territory, only informing the Bulgarian authorities. " Only a few hundred kilometers away we have a military conflict and on our territory there are bases that can be used and an assault weapon can be fired from them. Art. 6. The United States has recorded the right to claim compensation for their buildings and facilities when they decide to leave. Here for the record, for the record, that according to official data that has been made, there are currently 150 million for the various facilities in question, which means that when one day these bases are released, the Bulgarian State will have to pay 150 million. We'll pay, we'll get absolutely nothing, we'll pay. Art. 8. Bulgaria renounces the right to control the movement of foreign troops on the territory of the country. "To clarify, decide certain parts that are located in the US bases that will travel somewhat, for some purpose which they have decided what they are traveling within Bulgaria there is absolutely no problem as they have this right under contract. Art. 9. Any vehicle may move, enter and exit from our territory without having the right to control or review by our authorities. To clarify again, enter and exit from our territory, transport something, no one has the right to have any authorities in Bulgaria, the Military Police or anyone else, has no right to stop them, to do necessary checks or to observe what is being transported and what is being transported. Art. 10. Bulgaria renounces its right to exercise jurisdiction and members of the US armed forces and their families are untouchable to the Bulgarian laws for any violations. Put in simple terms: some member or part of the American bases has committed a serious, light, no matter what a violation, a violation, is not subject in any way to a sanction or prosecution by a court and prosecution in Bulgaria. It does not comply with the Bulgarian legislation. Art. 11. The members of the armed forces may commit even a felony with their act or omission, if they have a professional certificate from the US authorities at the bases, which justifies them and removes the responsibility from them. 11. He says everything. Art. 12. The Bulgarian authorities have no right to detain US military personnel, only they can hold them. We have absolutely no right to detain them or to mislead them under any responsibility whatsoever. If the person concerned is not convicted within one year, he shall automatically waive responsibility for what he has done. Art. 16. The U.S. bases and everything that comes into them is exempt from VAT payments for goods and materials. "It is important to stress here that this is generally pointless, because the American bases in no way buy anything from Bulgaria, do not support any production in Bulgaria and in no way give any added value for the fact that there are thousands of military in our territory. Art. 19. All personal items and motor vehicles are exempt from customs and taxes. If you do not know, radio frequencies are extremely expensive and every single radio, television or telecom pays extremely serious amounts for this thing. The American bases are exempt from this payment. Art. 31. They are exempt from taxes and compliance with the laws and local contractors working for these so-called occupation authorities. Why? If U.S. bases conclude a contract with an external contractor, a Bulgarian company or a Bulgarian private person, the same person is exempt from paying taxes on the amounts he has received. That's what I'm saying, in terms of fissure, it's extremely damaging to us. Bulgaria's labour legislation does not apply to people and companies employed by the US authorities. All disputes are resolved by the administration of the so-called occupation authorities and are not subject to Bulgarian courts. I do not know whether by all that I am putting out right now, it is clear to you that the American bases, all who are working or temporarily there, even Bulgarians who are taking part in some form and issuing some services in the American bases, are not subject to a sanction from the Bulgarian legislation in any way for both payments and taxes and for criminal liability. The agreement is signed with a 10-year deadline and is automatically continued, but can be terminated with one year's notice. This is exactly what we have currently proposed in the National Assembly to be examined and approved so that when we have not only American bases at the moment, there can be five by contract and reach 10,000. The man... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. The point is that at the moment, besides American bases, we have English servicemen, we have Greek, we have Albanian, we have Italian leadership of the NATO corps, we have Dutch military, we have Spanish military. Excuse me, where is the Bulgarian Army? At last, the Bulgarian state, as it is under the Constitution, its independence and integrity, should be guaranteed by the Bulgarian army and not by foreign armies. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I'm opening a discussion on the Project. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Honest Mitev, come in. Angel Georgiev recording.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I carry with me the Treaty which Mr. Tsoncho Ganev mentioned, and of course I want to address a few great untruths and delusions that he presented to the audience today. The first one I'm going to address is that he said those bases were US-owned. This is absolutely false, and if you read the treaty, there are many places now I will now take the liberty of quoting several places where, as yet, it is said: "By confirming that this cooperation is based on full respect for the sovereignty of each country and with the objectives and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Art. 2. supposed facilities and facilities mean facilities and sites in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which are state-owned.................................................................................................. Why are these bases in Bulgaria, Mr. Ganev? Art. 3. "Expert and Educational The following article is inserted: 4 Using facilities and facilities in full respect of the sovereignty and laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Ganev, you must buy new glasses. You can't see the letters. I'm continuing the land that is owned by the municipalities for temporary use. Art. 6. Property. All buildings, non-transferable structures, structures and so on remain property of Bulgaria. Getting back to the first point of this contract, Mr. Ganev, doesn't say anything in this contract says that this land is America's. Nothing! Secondly, all the military expenses they would make for the construction of additional structures should be paid by Bulgaria. It's completely false, it doesn't say anything in the contract. The only thing that suggests that if the US country has invested, it can in some way be compensated by Bulgaria is addressed in art. 6, para. 2, and at the end, where it says "possible compensation," Mr. Ganev. You just said that Bulgaria is obliged to pay, which is absolutely false. So, about VAT, Mr. Ganev. You are a member of the Budget Committee and you raised this issue about expenditure and the military expenditure in Bulgaria has long been exempt from VAT, Mr. Ganev. The suggestion that they will not pay VAT for expenditure relating to military activity is absolutely false. It is applicable to everything. A lot of what you said was wrong. I won't address everyone, I won't have enough time, and maybe the audience won't be willing to listen to them. But given that you started with three lies, I can imagine how much more you're willing to say, Mr. Ganev. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u133	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u134	I am not surprised by the statement of Iskren Mitev. Even when he replicates, it's offensive to me, but putting someone under the common denominator of lying, I don't know who to quote, just saying that it's a lie, I quoted specific members. You're making it up, I didn't say ownership, but I'm giving it to you that it's a figment of your fantasy. What I said about the payment is: If they ask, we have to pay them. It's nice, before you talk, to hear. There is nothing wrong with saying incompetently, but quoting in the particulars, because you went out to disprove me with the treaty, you had to come out and quote me specifically. I was quoting a member by member. You should have, if you're so punctual, come out on those points that I pointed out, point by point to disprove me, and not just once again speak incompetently.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u135	Thank you. Is there a second line? Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Mr. Mitev, you have prepared yourself well with this treaty, but read it a little as the gospel devil or as the sled Qur'an. Mr. Ganev never claimed the territory was American. On the contrary, this is Bulgarian territory, only through this treaty the Americans use it and we have no right to do anything in this territory. There is spoken in English and Bulgarian citizens do not have access, so the next time you quote specific members of this treaty, be so kind as to provide reliable information and read it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u137	Thank you. Mr. Taslakov, do you have a third line? I won't. Mr. Mitev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ganev, first to you, and I quote exactly what you said: these bases are of America. Mr. Kostadinov just said the same thing in front of the protest and also said he would say it from the stand. I hope that if he comes back later, he'll say it from the stands so it's written three times in the record that you say that these bases are American property, which is not true. That's not true! Then you said that you did not say that Bulgaria is obliged, but I listened very carefully to you and then we can see in the shorthand because you said that Bulgaria is obliged to pay the hundreds of millions that America has already invested. I also quoted the members, Mr. Ganev, and I can quote them again just in case. It's obvious you won't understand the first time. First, in the preamble to p. 4 of the contract......................................................................................... 2, para. 6, then on page 6. Article 5 (c) 4, para. 1, 2 and 3, then on p. 7 "Chapter 6 "Ownership, Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. Should I continue, Mr. Ganev, is there any point in contradicting any argument you make?! If we think that you have said five things in the stands and three of them are not true, I think it is clear to the entire audience and to all Bulgarian citizens who look at us that these are some suggestions and, as your colleague Mr. Taslakov said, with all due respect, you read the Bible as the Devil's Gospel. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u139	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Next statement Mr. Atanas Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u140	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Honourable Members of ARCHIVER, I find that there is one positive element in your proposal and, of course, a Democratic Bulgaria is unable to support this proposal. The Committees on Defence and Foreign Affairs rejected the draft decision, but I still find a positive element. This positive element is that today we will demonstrate as the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria our Euro-Atlantic consensus, of which, unfortunately, the Resurrection Party is not part. I believe that today, by voting on the draft decision, starting from the "BSP for Bulgaria" (BSP for Bulgaria), the DPS, we are continuing the Change, the "There is such a people", GERB, the "Democratic Bulgaria" (BGSP for Bulgaria), we will all vote against the proposed draft decision, and for me this is good news. We will reaffirm today our Euro-Atlantic consensus.. regardless of its different ideology, regardless of its different political biography and history, and I think that this is an important decision which today will not be adopted in plenary, and that for me is good news. Perhaps, of course, your draft decision is synchronized and with the protest that is outside this is, of course, your right. Essentially, the draft decision. Colleagues, those of you who were at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and there the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defence and the Military Leadership, Admiral Evtimov, very clearly said that in fact the Bulgarian Army is the great beneficiary of the fact that he can train, implement, increase his interoperability, build his skills, the Bulgarian Army. That is, these bases, which are Bulgarian, this joint operation of these bases, they support the Bulgarian Army to carry out its constitutional mission and from this point of view they are good for Bulgaria. Of course, our relations with the United States are not limited to military bases, and we have a strategic partnership treaty in other areas, but I am glad that today we will reaffirm our Euro-Atlantic identity, which is why a party of reenactment deserves one thanks. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u141	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Slavov's line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman! Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Member Slavov, I would agree with one thing that you really, with your speech, outlined the situation in the Bulgarian Parliament with regard to the issue of free American bases in Bulgaria, namely a party of reenactment against everyone else. Yes, you are right that today will confirm the loyalty of all other political forces to these so-called collaborators, as has been in the Defence Committee. Just one thing to tell you, colleague Slavov, with the permanent Euro-Atlantic Loyalism that demonstrates your parliamentary group, I think you have noticed in the last few years how your percentages are going in the parliamentary elections and I would like to point out that with this loyalty that you demonstrate to your Euro-Atlantic partners, this trend will unfortunately increase and, as one fellow Member in the other part of the House said, we will miss you in the next Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u143	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a second line for Mr. Slavov's statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Petrov, who will be in the next parliament is not dependent on rebirth, but depends on the Bulgarian citizens. We fight every time and every election for their trust, hear and listen to what they say and try according to our skills and opportunities to defend the positions of the majority of Bulgarian citizens who are Euro-Atlantic. This is what representation in this Parliament, beyond ideological citizens, shows it and representative sociological studies, which very clearly tell who Bulgarian citizens trust in the European Union and NATO in this crisis situation. Thank you. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u145	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For a next statement? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, compatriots! I start from where the previous statement ended, namely that this Euro-Atlantic consensus, as you call it, is not a consensus in our society, because there has been no referendum in which the Bulgarian people would like to declare whether they want membership in NATO, if they want membership in the European Union. When there is such a referendum, then we will be able to say whether there is a consensus in the society, something that we insist on, and not all, subject to one particular embassy, to go out and start without rebirth, of course, to explain how it was very clear and almost 115% of the Bulgarian people is for NATO membership, to have foreign bases and so on. It's something that doesn't correspond to the truth at all. We at ARGUING strongly state that we want a referendum on this issue and that it is not acceptable in Bulgaria to have foreign bases. Notice that the contract that is signed is between Bulgaria and the US government, and here you are talking about NATO. This is not about NATO. The treaty is with the US government, and this must be made clear from this tribune. In practice we have four spots on the map of Bulgaria and these are four military bases that are white spots, and there our country does not know what is happening or whether something is happening at all because we do not have a control mechanism. A treaty was read to you, which in practice shows a refusal of sovereignty in four places in Bulgaria. And instead of you being ashamed, you come out here and you start talking about how this was help to the Bulgarian army and it was doing joint exercises. Okay, let there be four Bulgarian bases in the US and there to do joint exercises and we would support them, but given that we have bases in our country, which there wasn't even during communism, and here a part of the room comes out and talks about how bad it was then and now how good it is, even then we didn't have foreign bases on our territory. This is a shame for Bulgaria at the moment. Once again, we have a refusal of independence and a commitment to something that we will definitely end when we rule. I would like to point out that all the political forces represented in today's parliament at a joint meeting of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Policy, including the BSP, voted to remain US military bases in Bulgaria, not tomorrow to go out and talk to their voters about how they were friends with Russia, how they were left and so on. Let's see clearly how who voted. We have two votes for the removal of the American bases in Bulgaria, and both votes are of the members of the AGE, one of which I am, the other is of Nikolay Drenchev. Everyone else was for..... without exception.................................................................................................. Let this be clear to the Bulgarians when they go again tomorrow to vote in early parliamentary elections. It is also very important to stress that the Minister of Defence at this joint meeting of the Committees on Defence and Foreign Policy said, note: "Well, it was these contributions from the US side of the colossal amount of 150 million "Imagine for our budget if we were to allocate 2%, how much more we would have given to date, and thanks to these 150 million, you see, there is even Count Ignatievo Airport. Shame and shame that Bulgaria at the moment, given that in your opinion it is hardly due to the fact that it is right in the Euro-Atlantic consensus, blooms and ties, and you can't actually maintain an airport like people. Finally, let me say again that what I said at the meeting and turned to the Minister of Defense, let us remember what army and what forces we entered before these American bases and what forces we are now with. In fact, our army is brought to the brink of survival. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u147	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for a cue, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u148	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to address separately from the untruths that were spoken from the stands. First, I will return to something that was said before that Bulgaria was the only country in which NATO bases were not Bulgarian property or so on. That's not true. In essence, it is stated in the contract itself that the land is Bulgarian. In addition, Turkey's base, which is America's, is owned by the American state, so it's a complete lie from everywhere. Next, being in NATO and in the European Union was not a consensus of the Bulgarian society. Well, very sorry, gentlemen, but when you have 5% of the votes in Bulgaria, you are not the Bulgarian majority, understand it. The Bulgarian majority is most of the parties represented here, so your position, yes, represents a very small part, a very small part of the Bulgarian society. Who's under another embassy? Dear gentlemen, what I hear is not that you want Bulgaria to be an independent state, but to be subordinate to another embassy, that is what I see. Moreover, the only thing that the history of interference of the Russian state in its neighbouring countries shows very clearly is that so far there has been no interference in countries that are members of the European Union and NATO. What keeps us from Butcha repeating itself in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen? What is it that protects us, besides being members of NATO and the European Union, please tell me? In practice, the state does not know what is happening in these bases, which is absolutely false. The contracts clearly show that the state has its control mechanisms for what is happening there. That's it, I have nothing more to say. Everything you say from here is false. I can just say it's false, and the evidence can be seen even without an armed eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u149	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a second line of Angel Georgiev's speech? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u150	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! While we are focusing on the real refusal of sovereignty, we see here that representatives of the ruling coalition are coming out and are trying to divert the discussion in some very sideways with inadequate speeches, to explain to us how almost what we all see, what the Bulgarian people see, was not so. In fact, when they are talking, we should look to see if they say: "Good morning! " That's as far as it goes. We say that we de facto have a refusal of sovereignty, we de facto have a territory within the country that our country does not control and does not know what is happening on it, hence we are being told about VAT, so it is in principle. And that's what happens in every statement we make....just abduct the subject....talking about something minor.. We have seen this and the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. There you didn't even want, honourable gentlemen ruling and pseudo-positioning, you didn't want to have a discussion. We were the only ones at ARGUING talking, asking questions to the Minister of Defence, asking the most important question: why, since NATO is so much contributing to our army, is it in a weary state, in a worse state than before we signed the treaty for these American bases? We never got an adequate answer. Are some trainings of our army, which it can carry out on its own anyway, worth more than national sovereignty, worth more than four Bulgarian bases that we have provided on a platter, as the people say? It's just outrageous! Today we want to see who, which political power only protects that in Bulgaria there are no foreign bases..................................... no matter whose, no matter which country. Once again, I remind you that the treaty is with the US government so that NATO does not interfere here, because we are not talking about NATO bases, but about US bases on the territory of Bulgaria, so let's really be punctual. So far, we have not heard any serious argument as to why these bases were useful. Well, no, they're not useful. As I said, no self-respecting country will tolerate or tolerate, or great power, or claim any foreign bases on its territory. It's logical, it's normal, and it's legitimate that we don't tolerate having foreign bases on our territory, no matter what country they're on. Because today this country may be our ally, tomorrow it may not be our ally. It is only the Bulgarian army that must defend national sovereignty and national integrity and the Constitution, and we are now witnessing that very criminally, leading the country to annihilation of the army, with the pretext: well, you see, NATO will protect us, until at some point we wake up and see that the Bulgarian army is a zero, that it is destroyed... [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] The fact that time has run out is not the most important thing in this case. The most important thing is that your time is running out, that the time of national betrayal is running out, and this thing you will see very soon and we at rebirth are the guarantor of this. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u151	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. The discussion is still open, so if there are any other speeches, order if we do not go to the vote. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u152	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! A nation that doesn't feed its own army feeds a foreign nation. That's exactly what's happening right now! It was our current allies from the European Union and NATO who forced us to disband the Bulgarian army, made us cut our missiles and tanks. Right now they're making us pay in advance for some blueprints we haven't even seen, as we can see, we're already ordering a second serving of the same. Is this what we are counting on from foreign troops to protect the Bulgarian land, foreign troops to protect this country of ours? Currently in Bulgaria there are American troops, there are Greek troops, there are Dutch troops... What else is there? Are they gonna protect us? Thirteen centuries of history has shown us that if we do not have a strong Bulgarian army to resist our sovereignty, we usually become an occupied state and that is what is happening right now. I will not ask the Americans what interests they have on the other side of the planet, but if you think NATO or the European Union will protect us from something, you are very mistaken. And what is currently being done here is national betrayal, because the only guarantor of Bulgarian sovereignty is a strong and combatable Bulgarian army and all our efforts must be directed in this direction. And the other thing I want to ask: we give these bases to the United States government free of charge, I repeat, not NATO, the United States, why didn't they give us a discount on planes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. You have an opportunity for lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u154	I didn't mean to get involved. What I had to say, I said in the Defense Committee. And the vote, I think, is categorically, unambiguously, shows which arguments weigh and which are in the field of populism and empty talk, but I am tempted because Mrs. Guncheva here mentioned the words 100 times the Bulgarian army. Dear Mrs. Guncheva, have you bothered to talk to any of the Bulgarian generals, officers, soldiers, sergeants, any of this Bulgarian army, and to ask him what his opinion is of the existence of these joint facilities and what is their contribution to the development and modernisation of the Bulgarian army, or are you simply repeating here some learned things intended there for the people who have gathered outside and suggesting some truths of this tribune? There's been a lot of lies here. I can disprove at least 15 things from everything that's been said. I won't do it. I ask you one simple question: did you ask any Bulgarian serviceman is there any point in the existence of such a type of equipment and is there any other chance at the moment in this state in which he was brought up another is the question of who is guilty and responsible for this, the Bulgarian Army, to conduct a meaningful, normal training process, with modern fighting technique and not only, as you claim, with American soldiers? These facilities can and come from representatives of any armed forces, including armies outside the NATO system. And as you repeat so many times: but this is not a NATO base, this is not a NATO base, are you ready to build NATO bases then, by asking for NATO bases? Are you ready to take this step? If you don't want joint facilities, let's build NATO bases then? And it is not true that they are not a guarantor of Bulgarian national security, and it is not true that they turn us into targets. Each Bulgarian military base has become a potential target for an enemy when we entered NATO. You understand that, and it has nothing to do with what they've been saying here. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u155	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Any other lines? I won't. For the coat, Mrs. Guncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u156	My fellow Member, I very much hope that your constituents have heard this statement. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]] I'm sure... [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u157	Please, out of the way!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u158	Sir, I've been disciplined enough to listen to you without replicating you from your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u159	We're listening, Mrs. Guncheva, come in. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You can continue on the sidelines after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u160	A sense of humor is for intelligent people, gentlemen. I will remind you of just one thing: the US Army's contribution was expressed also in the case of Cheshnegirovo, when a foreign army, foreign soldiers invaded a Bulgarian workshop and treated Bulgarian citizens as if they were in an occupied state. This is the American army's contribution. There weren't even formal excuses. In fact, as I recall, we apologized that our workshop had interfered with the American soldiers' path on the occasion of their teachings. I think what's being done is shameful. And yes, I know enough Bulgarian officers and active and retired ones who are ashamed of what is happening here who believe that Bulgaria is currently being sold, sold for posts, sold for interest, and exactly by your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. The next statement is Mr. Gazhev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't mean to make a big deal out of it, but let's bring some information into the debate anyway. What's this about? By the way, I was surprised there were NATO bases. NATO bases usually have two. One's in Mons, the other's in Brussels. Everyone else is national bases. In Bulgaria there are four joint facilities concluded under a contract between the government of Bulgaria and the government of the United States, I think 2008 by the government of Stanishev. They've been operating so far. What are these four bases? First base is Count Ignatievo, Graff Ignatievo Air Base. Does anyone have any doubt that this Bulgarian base? There are the Bulgarian MiG-29s. There is also one of the main bases of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. Is this a foreign base? Well, no, it's not a foreign base. It's Bulgarian. The second is Bezmer Airbase. In Bezmer is located MiG-125 and there is actually a Bulgarian contingent and this is a Bulgarian base of the Air Force. It's a joint facility. The third such base is the storage facility in Aytos, which is a storage facility of the Bulgarian Army and inside there is Bulgarian property. I don't know why it keeps saying it was some foreign base and so on. The fourth facility is the Novo village polygon. The polygon, as we know, are not bases, and the polygons are for teaching, and teachings are being carried out on them. Even now, the Bulgarian Army is conducting an exercise on 6 and 7 April with armed forces from the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Romania. By the way, as far as I know and as was rightly noted, by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the servicemen are very pleased with the level of training that is happening in Novo Selo, because indeed this is a polygon in which conditions are made so that the army gets a quality level of training. And you shouldn't speculate on what bases they are, aren't they and so on. These are Bulgarian bases that can be used together with the American country, as it has been so far. There's a clear regulation on how everything works, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it works... By the way, this is about control. Why can't people come in? These are military bases, people. I'm sorry. No, you can't go in normally and have access to a military base. I, even as MP, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, would not allow myself to walk, even here on a fourth kilometer, the nearest other base, to go and want to go in. At the very least, because this is a regimental unit where the post office will request permission from the commander of the unit, the commander will ask his superior and so on and so on. What are we doing this thing for? Of course, when we were invited, we were. Many times here, many members of the Commission are in both the National Assembly and in front meetings, including journalists, including a society that have been and have been quite calm. There are even open-door days. So there's no problem with access to these bases. Whoever wasn't in the airbase Count Ignatevo and Bezmer can go. On Air Force Day every year is an open day at these bases and can safely enter and examine them. It's not something weird. The four facilities in question support and adequately prepare the preparation of the Bulgarian armed forces together with our allies. Not just the American side. With all our allies. Even with countries that are not members of NATO, we are doing preparations with them, because one thing you need to know is that in order for an army to be prepared, it must carry out exercises in order to be able to prepare. Without conducting the teachings, there's no logical way to prepare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u163	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there a line to Mr. Gajev? There aren't any. If there are any other statements please come in, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would very much like you to see in me, not a member of the AGE, the parliamentary group, but a former reserve officer and a member of the Defence Committee, so that, if there is any chance, you can see through the Euro-Atlantic fog, the Euro-Atlantic consensus, which is demonstrated here from far left to far right, and see the facts as they are. I thought two arguments to say, but from the previous statements I'll have to say three. The first thing I want to say to you: what we have seen, Mr. Zafirov and Mr. Gazhev, in the Defence Committee, and what I have seen is obviously different, although we have heard clearly the same thing, but we have understood different things. We have asked in detail what exactly is the Bulgarian Army doing in these joint-use facilities, so-called. They said there was a very good preparation. Personally, from what Minister Yanev explained then, I was under the impression that it wasn't at all. What we see as the preparation of the Bulgarian infantry, which has reached the position of an airborne portable corps for the performance of service missions across the border is not at all the Bulgarian Army, which should be and which the Constitution commands us to maintain. On the contrary, I do not think that these joint-use facilities, so-called, are indeed joint-use facilities. As you know, we could not do there in this National Assembly, the Commission tried, but failed to hold a meeting there at the polygon in Novo village. In general, what I want to say to you, my personal opinion as an officer and as a member of the Defence Committee is that the Bulgarian army has no significant benefit from the presence of these four joint-use facilities, so-called. What I see in relations with our Zadocan partners is with regard to F-16 contracts and with regard to the second offer for F-16 contracts, and with regard to American bases, I would say it a little harshly with a poker proverb that is a Querau cards do not play and we are in the role of the Korean. We've given our bases absolutely free. Precedents all over the world. There's no such thing anywhere. He's not in Africa, he's not in Latin America. Only in Bulgaria. That's the first thing we did. The second thing we did, we gave 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for planes that we don't even know when they're coming or if they're coming. The Americans have the right to change the price, change what they deliver, deliver it to us when they decide, or not even deliver it at all. These are terms of the contract, rather than the terms under which we have signed the offer. Again, I don't blame the Americans. I blame the people here, Euro-Atlantic, consensually demonstrated their porridge, their vassal obedience, without standing the Bulgarian national interest. I'd like to address you with my most important argument. You should know there's no free lunch. These bases aren't free. They bring great benefits to the American army, to the American defense, to the American geopolitical doctrine, and for this reason the Americans repay them. If they don't pay back with money that goes into the state budget, they pay back in other ways. They pay either to the mafia or through their agencies, which finance political entities that successfully appear in elections and profile our National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u165	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines to Mr. Danchev? Please come in, Mr. Ganev. You have 19 seconds, by the way, of extended time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u166	Thank you. Mr. Drenchev, I am extremely glad that unlike Mr. Zafirov, you did not say that NATO bases would guarantee the security of Bulgaria. Thank you. Because I would be ashamed of that statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u167	Is there another line to Mr. Drenchev? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u168	Mr. Drenchev, you said to protect the Bulgarian national interest. I want to read something that I found on the Internet: "Don't despair, there is some hope that Russia has high-point weapons, so it can just hit the Council of Ministers. "Is this the Bulgarian national interest that you are defending? You want us to stay without any protection and the high-point missiles to fly to Bulgaria. That's it? Please answer. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u169	You have a line to Mr. Drenchev, so I don't know who your question was addressed to. Is there another line to Mr. Drenchev from the hall? Mr. Drenchev, you have an opportunity for a duvet, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u170	Mr. Ganev, I do not believe that these bases in any way help and guarantee the security of the country. On the contrary, they put it at some level at risk, because the truth is that we do not know what is going on there, nor what is in it, nor do we have any opportunity to counter what is happening there. From this point of view, these bases are rather a risk, a threat that may have seemed insignificant in 2006, but today we are increasingly sensing a tangible risk to this, indeed, in these bases, to store something that we do not know about, but which can be targeted from all sorts of directions. From this point of view, indeed, my greatest desire and recommendation to the National Assembly is to vote for the termination of this treaty, so concluded, long ago, and if we decide, then we can conclude a new treaty for new bases with NATO, whether with the American side, whether we decide, but under conditions clear, honest and due contributions, all that is paid can be on the table and enter into the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u171	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any other comments on the subject? I won't. That concludes the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on a draft decision to end the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation. Vote 161 MPs: 11 against 146 abstentions 4. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have the hope that Parliament can take rational decisions despite irrational speaking from here. I voted against it, so I voted in committee when we discussed the proposal in question. My belief, like most of my colleagues, is that our membership in the European Union and NATO alliances guarantee our safety, especially in the context of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. In conclusion, I would like to call on everyone. No one is allowed to say from this stand that the Bulgarian army is zero! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] No one has the right to talk like that about the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u173	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Mr. Cholakov, come in for an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u174	Two words, Mr. Chairman, for a negative vote. Of course we voted negative because the allied arrangements must be respected and Bulgaria must be a predictable, reliable and accurate partner. In the contracts she made, it's an axiomatic situation. I voted against it, and for one more reason, and I am taking the negative vote to explain it, and I am also referring to what Mr. Belev said. Colleagues, this is the second time I'm gonna tell you from the stands and I'm not gonna bother you with this topic anymore. Don't you get the feeling that these debates are being held on purpose, they're inspiring, they're initiating, we're grabbing, and we're starting to lead them? And they are inspired intentionally, precisely to start here from this tribune to comment on the state of the Bulgarian army, our relationship with the allies, to start to slip and to say things that should not be spoken publicly. For the second time, colleagues, this debate itself is a threat to national security and that we allow it to be conducted at all means that we are very stupid people. And I ask you, Mr. President and all the chairmen of parliamentary groups, the Presidential Council, the next time such a question is put on the agenda, you put it on the agenda, but let us not participate in this conversation. This conversation cannot be led by this tribune because, again, I say from this tribune of nervous soil, there are things people on the side and outside who look at us, including our allies, laughing at us. I don't want our country to be ridiculed. Please don't hold this debate again from the parliamentary stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u175	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. And the third explanation of the negative vote.. Atanas Slavov. Wait, Mr. Slavov, you made a statement and therefore you cannot have an explanation of negative vote. Anyone else interested in explaining a negative vote? I won't. For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a procedure to put our proposal, Mr President, to the vote, namely to extend the working time of today's plenary session to consideration of item five, including the vote on item five, namely our draft decision to establish a temporary committee of inquiry to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's 1 billion-dollar Memorandum with Gemcorp Corporation. And I'll explain why. Colleagues from the ruling parties because they are ruling parties, because it is difficult to talk about a coalition now, but colleagues, so you are becoming very sympathetic, at least in my eyes. Somehow you decided that this topic, putting it in point five of today's programme and pushing important topics, such as the adoption of the Commission's report on discrimination for 2020. A very important topic. Another important topic was the proposal of "Democratic Bulgaria"..................... the topic related to State Security... their files.. 30 years later today found time that it is important to consider this topic. And you did everything you could, and people need to know that, but don't think you're lying to us, lying to people. I have a feeling you're hiding and you don't really want to get to this debate. And I don't get it, you guys were about more transparency, right, some new parliamentaryism you were about to introduce? Then, you see, today Mr. President even returned the vote from the forty-fourth National Assembly, and you are starting to return this parliamentaryism more and more, colleagues. And don't think that by making such procedural moves, the truth won't come to light. So, Mr. Chairman, please submit our procedural proposal to extend the working hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u177	Of course. Inverse opinion, first of all, is there? We will not, so we are going to vote on the procedural proposal made by Alexander Nenkov, namely to extend the working hours of today's meeting until the end of point 5th of the Programme, including by voting on it. Voting mode. Vote 175 MPs: 75, against 87, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Revoting? Voting mode. Vote 183 MPs: 80 against 91, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: LAWPROECTION FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT (COMMITMENT No 1) TO THE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-P-AAD In a previous meeting on 30 March 2022, when the discussion on the bill was opened, Borislav Gutsanov, Rumen Gechev and Kostadin Kostadinov made speeches. Anybody else want to make a statement? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Mr. Drenchev, are you speaking? Here you go. I didn't see it. It's my fault. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry, some of you are hungry, they want us to finish this discussion quickly, but this is a very good sequel to the previous discussion when I told you that It's only $20 million. The dollar where we ordered 12 Sidewinder missiles. These are small missiles for a close maneuvering air battle with heat direction, about 80 kg, a distance of impact of the target about 3 km for those who do not know. We received very generously a proposal signed in Washington by Minister Panayotov a few days ago, a minister of the service, with which the whole proposal is being amended, absolutely everything. Prices are changing exactly as they thought, without any logic. After all, this proposal may be good for us. Maybe it's good, because instead of 12 rockets, we get 15 rockets. That's good. The problem is that looking at it in a piece, discussing it in a piece in the Defence Committee, and here in the National Assembly, we do not really know what is going on with the remaining 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the How exactly is it that planes will slow down, how exactly that we don't currently have the opportunity to guard our airspace, how exactly that the poverty allied forces are coming to protect our airspace, albeit still guarded by our MiG-29, who without repair and service of setbacks and the heroism of the technical staff that supports them, and the flight crew that operates them in the air, are still able to carry combat duty alongside their colleagues. And we've paid $1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The dollar years ago and ultimately, if the US side expects that we will get the airplanes late and that they will not comply with the contract, and that it is possible yet to see any other absolute voluntaristic changes in the basic contract, which is for much more money, and that it is going to be in the upward direction of all this is extremely vague, extremely dishonest and perhaps much better to hold back with the ratification of this treaty, to review very carefully the set of all the contracts for acquiring F-16, including the Framework Agreement for Industrial Cooperation with the Ministry of Economy. There's a lot of questions. There are more questions than answers. We will very easily vote that we will receive three more missiles. I don't know what we're gonna lose. I've devoted a great deal of my time to finding out what we're going to lose, what we've done, why we've ordered and why we've spent a billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. the dollar from I still don't have an answer. I am sure that none of you has an answer to this question, so please, this is not the time to support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u179	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines to Nikolai Drenchev? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In principle, the procedure is standard and standard ratification. Speaking of the terms of the treaty, as I will continue a little bit from the debate that was last week, by the way, then I asked the leader at the meeting when there were drafts tabled by the Council of Ministers, there would still be a representative of the Council of Ministers, because many of the questions that were asked last week could receive a very timely response and stop with these insinuations that are happening. There was talk about how the terms of the treaty were unfavorable for Bulgaria and so on. The terms are standard for each country and are published on the Defence Department's website and are standard both in this treaty and in the ratification that we should look at tomorrow at the Defence Committee submitted by this Council of Ministers, the terms are identical. These are classic conditions that apply to every single contract that the American state makes for sale of arms, so whoever seeks under the ox there has no place to find it. It was about how, you see, the American side slowed down the delivery of airplanes, how it was humiliating for Bulgaria and so on. The supply delay force majeure that occurred due to a horse, which will, by the way, delay the supplies under the basic contract of aircraft by one year. Instead of 2023, the year 2024, 2024, 2025. But I wonder why all those who criticised the delay in this delivery by one year did not say a word that the Russian side was also delayed by one year in the repair of MiG-29?! Instead of ending 2020, December 2021 ended. Most contracts ended 2021 December precisely because of the Kovid because of the same force majeure. I haven't heard anyone from this tribune criticize the Russian side with the same drive to criticize the American side for identical delays, with identical reasons. As for the missiles themselves, why 12, why 15? As you can see, within the framework of the funds that have been paid, which, by the way, can very easily be traced what it costs, with public information, as long as one is interested in looking. As there is also the price in particular of airplanes and of armaments and so on and so forth publicly. It's not too hard to find. As for the number of missiles, then why did the government consider them to be 12 and not 24, as they were on the original proposal? It's very simple why 2019 should be paid. 24 rockets, which we will receive 2023 together with the planes, and the conditions for an advance payment such as they were then for a first contract, and could be concluded at a subsequent stage and already with a deferred payment? And why do I say a deferred payment? Because on ratification, which we should consider this week in the Defence Committee, there is already a deferred payment for equipment. So obviously, the deferred payment mechanism is already working and the advance payment, which has been made in 2019, makes sense. From here I do not even want to comment on some of the fairy tales that were spoken, especially on the left side of the hall, but ultimately to focus on this bill and the prices that are agreed in it, by the way, are done during Radev's service government with Minister Georgi Panayotov. The signature under the document belongs to Minister Stefan Yanev. Vote at the Council of Ministers February month with a full majority of ministers. There is not a single minister voted against, so obviously both this Council of Ministers and the previous one in the caretaker government agree with the parameters of this agreement. I hope that we will be a little more responsible and we will stop politics with different types of suggestion, because the government is yet to consider the new offer, see if there will be a different approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines to Hristo Gajev? Nikolai Drenchev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u182	Mr. Gazhev, I disagree with you. On many points I disagree, but what I would replicate specifically here in this case is that the data is public. I can't say that thing. I know that you and I, as I have, have been searching for a long time for the Treaty of the various chambers of law, secret and obvious, and in the end at least I found it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I suppose so do you. In this regard, I can also remind Mr. President that I had asked him to be found in our archives. I'm guessing he wasn't found here. So the prices are a little interesting, a little veiled, and in the end it is really not very clear what is going on in the whole set of contracts that we have concluded. And it is extremely important to understand with details exactly what has happened for one simple reason that the current government is trying to add another 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) There's no way until we're sure that the first ones are paid and we'll actually get them, ratify a next deal like this. The other extremely shocking thing about me, investigating the matter of contracts, is that the Sidewinder missiles are not in stock. This is something that we should have in quantities of tens and hundreds. In case they start fighting, it'll be a consummate that we don't have to mourn, and we need the pilots to have as much as they need. From this point of view, the idea that we're going to get a couple of years from now, two or three rockets, is really personal to me, because I expected that at any moment when we decided that we needed rockets, they could fly across the ocean and be delivered to us in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u183	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Is there another line to Hristo Gajev? Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I'm going to do two things from what you said. The first, you remind me well of the repairs of the MiGs, only remember that the Russian side slowed down, but paid its penalty, and in the contracts that your Prime Minister signed, first, there are no penalties at all, from there to begin. And what's more, you claim here that these were actually the type contracts that the American side is offering. Someone is lying in the whole situation or you, or your Prime Minister and Chairman of the party Mr. Borisov. On 18 July 2019 he said on all media that he insisted on paying the planes, he himself, and that he told a forum of European diplomats. So either he lied then, or you're lying here today from the stands. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u185	Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Gadget. [[Reply: Who's lying?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u186	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u187	The terms of the treaty are standard, which are for delivery and for penalties and for everything else that is written. The payment was made in advance, yes, in the talks between Bulgaria and the United States for the simple reason that it could not have done otherwise. But thanks to this advance payment, there can already be a deferred payment. The third thing, by the way, you just lied that the Russian side has paid its penalty. She didn't pay for it! Even from this tribune two weeks ago, Minister Zakov said that a million and a half times a penalty from the Republic of Bulgaria to the RSK was not paid because of a strong force. From this tribune, so you can check it even in the shorthands. If we are talking about the penalties or some sort of compensation in the delay of the treaty, I will remind you of Minister Yanev's reply while he was still a minister. He said the following: The US government delegation is scheduled to arrive in March to discuss with the Ministry of Defence the opportunities for compensation of the Republic of Bulgaria for delaying the delivery of It's April now. You're in charge, tell me what happened at those meetings. We of the opposition do not know what you have negotiated for compensation of the Republic of Bulgaria. That's what you have to answer. As for the contracts you mentioned. I wasn't looking for the contracts, I was working with public information. I know your case and odyssey in the search for contracts, I understand you've already found them and read them. But even if you open the very page of the State Department, there are prices inside when they are already on the part of the US government assigned to suppliers to deliver them to the US government. And there, by the way, you can see how much planes cost and how much armaments cost, how much equipment costs, and you can do a very good analysis of what costs and therefore collect to make the amount. As for the missiles, why would they arrive in years? Because what's the point of having rockets now, given that the plane will arrive in two years? That was the point in 2019 when you order something, no one's in stock. You have attended meetings that we had with various European companies, and they say the same: no manufacturer keeps things in stock, everyone produces on demand. As you know very well, every weapon has an expiration date and a warranty period that runs. As soon as you get it, this expiration date is already running. It doesn't make any sense for us 2019 to get rockets that will use them 2023, whether for exercise or availability, and three or four years from their expiration date to be expired. That's why they have to arrive along with the planes, it just doesn't make any other sense. That's the right thing to do, at least I think. As for everything else you're trying to instill, it's good to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u188	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Mr. Karadaye has the floor for a procedure before we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the word in the manner of conduct. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, on 25 March, we and our fellow MPs from the parliamentary group of the DPS have asked Prime Minister Cyril Petkov. On April 1, it is no accident that I say April 1, you return our question, based on that it does not meet the requirements of art. 94, para. 3 and you explain that the questions must concern the general policy of the government. Mr. Chairman, in our questioning, we have a question to clarify some of the terms where, how, and why does the Prime Minister use them, and do these statements correspond to what we sometimes call first April factual inaccuracies? [[Laughter]] Now, from this tribune, I would like to justify why our questioning meets the requirements and is precisely in connection with the general policy of the government. If I were to use the terminology of the Prime Minister, my arguments would sound as follows: the vortex of power lies to the allangro in the situation which is in a very complicated situation, with first April factual inaccuracies, which, in turn, is the basis of the general government policy. And from this point of view, Mr. Chairman, I think our question fully meets the requirements of art. 94, para. 3 and please take your part, address your inquiry to the Prime Minister and get our answers in due time. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-06.u190	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Let's move on to the vote now. I put to the vote the Law on ratification of the Treaty (Write of Offering and Adopting a Offer/Letter of Offer and Acception.OA) on Supplement and Amendment No 1 (Amendment No 1) to International Contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD.Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services. Vote 155 MPs: 134 against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. That's why I'm calling off today's meeting due to a matter of time running out. The next meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
