ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] By order of the President of the National Assembly of 24 June 2022, an extraordinary plenary session of the forty-seventh National Assembly was convened for today, 28 June, at 11.00 on the following agenda: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 Messages: I. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that a joint Bulgarian-American preparation will be held from June 30th to December 21st 2022 in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility. A formation of the armed forces of the United States of America will take part in the joint preparation. The preparations shall be carried out in the implementation of the agreements reached on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation and the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American preparations in the country and abroad in 2022 and shall not be related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. II. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the use of a plane from the Republic of Bulgaria to Hungary and back with a crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received on 24 June with entry No 47-203-09-65 and 66 and submitted to the Defence Commission. A Report on the activities of the State Financial Inspection Agency for 2021 was received in the National Assembly on 23 June 2022. The report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Karimansky, come in, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber under the first item of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of State Social Security, the following persons: by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Lazar Lazarov Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. My fellow Members, I am putting the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 199 MPs: 184, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Please invite to this House the persons to whom we voted for admission. Colleagues, we move on to item one of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLOSENESS OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC PROCUREMENT FOR 2022 A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022, No 47-202-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022, adopted on the first vote on 16 June 2022. Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022 In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: the Law for amendment of the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022. Under § 1, there is a proposal by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission: The following amendments shall be made in § 1: 1. In para. 1: 1.1. In the text, the number..18 247 722,1..18 193 1.2. In the table, in row COSTS AND TRANSFERS THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF 18 247 722,1 1.3. In the table, in row Received additional transfers from the central/state budget to cover the amount of the funds needed. 2. In para. 2: 2.1. In the text, the number..18 247 722,1..18 193 2.2. In the table, in line "I." COSTS AND TRANSFERS 2.3. In the table, in row The cost of the number 2.4. In the table, in row The number of pensions is s 15 506 924.3. becomes s15 452 424.3. 2.5. In the table, in row 1.1.1. Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the name and § 1. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor under this paragraph because our proposal, respectively, for revenue and expenditure, concerns all the proposals that we have made in the framework of the budgetary procedure between first and second readings. So I take the floor to protect them once more. In the last 20 days, much has been said on the topic of pensions, but on the day when we are about to distort the pension system and increase its dependence on transfers from the state budget, I think it is worth saying once again what are the shortcomings of the proposed draft budget and why the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS has made its proposals. First of all, what is a serious problem of the current proposed bill is that there is no revenue in it. You know that many of the revenues at the National Insurance Institute depend on specific measures that are linked to combating undeclared employment, to the grey economy. There were a number of proposals from trade unions and employers. Unfortunately, despite the great ambitions we have not seen any such proposal within this proposed bill. On the other hand, billions of expenditure against which there is no income in the coming years are at stake. No matter how many times we repeated that we needed a three-year budget forecast, this was not made. I know you've heard these numbers many times already, but let's repeat them one more time. What is proposed to increase pensions this year will cost 1 billion and 300 million, for the next year it will cost 3.7 billion, for the next? 2024, it will be 4 billion 253 million, and for 2025 it will be 4 billion and 700 million close. Against these costs, there is no income at stake, and no one can tell what will happen until then. One thing is clear, however, that in order to cover the deficit in the public budget or to increase taxes, insurance must be raised by at least 5% in order to be able to cover this deficit, or loans must be taken. The proposal that we have made is much more balanced from this point of view, because for this year it would cost 36 million less than the proposal of the government, but at the same time for the following years it would be 2 billion less and it would be more effective, fairer and more struggling inequalities than what is being proposed now. Why do current proposals deepen injustice and inequalities? Mostly because of the unfair decision supplements of 60 leva. to be part of the pension. Not only they, but also the supplements that equalise respectively the amounts that pensioners received in December 2021 will also become or propose to become part of pensions. For example, 105 thousand pensioners will take one supplement of 75 BGN because they currently receive 15 BGN. to their pensions, other pensioners, for example 102 thousand of them will take a supplement of 90 levs, because they receive currently 60 plus 30 levs. Of course, I can quote many more examples, because those who receive supplements for December are 778 thousand people. 778 thousand people will receive additional funds except those 60 levs, with no contribution against all this money. That'll distort the pension system. It will allow all the others who have not received these additional supplements to file cases under the Law of Discrimination and will certainly win them because there is no principle and no social contribution against these funds. There is no reason and it cannot be explained by anything other than political populism why someone will take 60 BGN and another will take 115 BGN respectively. This will be the highest supplement that will be added to the pension. Moreover, the proposed version of the budget makes the supplement of 60 BGN. eternally because in his texts it says that respectively these 60 leva. must be charged to any pension on which a person would be entitled after 1 July 2022. Our proposals are for a 15% increase in pensions now, ahead of the expected average annual inflation according to the data of the National Statistical Institute, such as the 60 leva supplement. to remain until the end of the year and to be transformed into an additive only for the most vulnerable from 1 January 2023. In the proposed § 1, the revenues and expenses that we have proposed also relate to another proposal of ours, which is related to dropping the update from 1 October, which is proposed as it will affect only 717 thousand pensioners. There is no consensus on it with the social partners and with all stakeholders. It should be a proposal that should go through a broad political consensus and fall into the next budget.................................................................................................... With these proposals that we have made, therefore, the proposal that we have made for revenue and expenditure in § 1. I hope that they will be accepted because they would be more just. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines, coworkers? Mr. Arabadjiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Sacheva, I cannot agree with the fact that no revenue has been provided, you are only quoting expenditure, but next year there will be additional revenue in the budget due to the increase of the average social security income, which we expect to be over 1 billion. BGN, we have an additional collection rate in the budget. You see, the deficit is increasing in the Pension Fund to about 40%, and you over the years because of the insufficient increase in pensions, the increase in social security income at a higher rate, the deficit had reached about 25%. We believe that it is normal and it is not a problem to finance the cost of pensions with taxes. It is sustainable in time, GDP growth allows it, the growth of the collection rate allows it and this is within normal limits that are sustainable financially long-term. Pension costs total as a percentage of GDP are around 10%, which is below the average level in the European Union, so I see no problem with the financial sustainability of the system. And with regard to the events of October 1st, I think you should take a walk and talk to the pensioners, because the consensus is there - it is a measure expected of the pensioners for many long years to get what they should have received. Why would only one third get an increase? This is not a problem because for each pensioner an individual recalculation is made and everyone will get an increase if the formula in the recalculation calculates to be given to him. The indexing of July 1 is for everyone, but from October 1st only for those who the formula shows that they did not get what they needed over the years. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Sacheva, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Arabadzhiev, you are talking about increased income, but you are talking about increased income in taxes, I am talking about income that comes from insurance. Income from insurance comes with a fight against undeclared work, with gray employment, with an increase in the number of people who pay their insurance on real income. With the changes that we have proposed in this case, the changes that you propose to be without an insurance contribution, people getting a higher pension, it is demotivating for people who would like to pay insurance. It is also demotivating to remain on the ceiling of pensions, provided that you yourself acknowledge that at BGN 3400. the ceiling for pensions only 1000 people will remain limited by it. So the fairer and the right thing to do was to not have such a ceiling at all than to have it. So in this regard, I believe that the deepening of the dependence of the NSI budget on transfers from the central budget is something that damages the pension system and, in this sense, I think that this proposal should not be accepted because it would lead to the need to increase taxes and social security in the coming years. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute! My speech is under § 1 on the macro framework of the proposed draft amending the State Social Security Budget Act. My fellow Members, I will try to give you some information on what has been going on over the last 12 years with regard to the macro framework of the state social security budget. In 2009, the deficit in the state social security budget, i.e. the transfer from the state budget to the IPO budget, was 1 billion. 523 million. The deficit or transfer to the state social security budget is now 8 billion. The Commission 047 thousand, which means that the increase is nearly eight times, nearly eight times the deficit of the state social security budget is increasing, in other words, eight times the dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget. The pressure on public finances has been increased eight times. One more piece of information. Against the backdrop of the eightfold increase of the deficit, the average amount of pensions in 2009 was 288 BGN, at the beginning of this year is 573 BGN, and is expected after the measures proposed in this project, the average amount of pensions to increase slightly over 600 BGN, meaning the increase of the average size is twice. What, then, should we think about this system? Perhaps you will say: but, wait, these things happened during other governments. However, what is being proposed at the moment does not in any way change the disproportions in the pension system, nothing more is increasing them. Why am I saying this? Because the main conclusion that can be drawn is that it increases in addition to disproportions and inequalities. In the reasons for the proposed bill, you claim that in the age segment over 65, 49.5% of pensioners are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. What does that mean? This means that there must be measures in relation to this category, only that the measures you are proposing them do not in any way contribute to the opposite, making these disproportions worse. That is why we say, as we stated at first reading: from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will support the increase of pensions, because without any agreement, pensioners are part of vulnerable groups and in these crises we are currently seeing, we cannot fail to proceed to such measures. Another is, however, the question of the methodology proposed for this increase. We will therefore make a proposal a little further in the State Social Security Budget Act, and we believe that our proposals can contribute to improving the measures proposed. And now a few words about the discussion that spread last week that MPs from the National Assembly and those from the opposition are blocking the adoption of the state social security budget. Honourable Members, the budget of state social security, along with the other budgets, has been tabled on 8 June. Today is the 28th day, i.e. the 20th day of the budget implementation. The previous budget procedure ended in 21 days. Assuming that today we will finalise with the budgets of state social security and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, this means that despite the late introduction of the budget laws, the people's representation is dealing with this matter and pensioners, if adopted in the version of the Council of Ministers, will receive their pensions even with July pensions. That is, all fairy tales such as: MPs block the adoption of the state social security budget are definitely untenable. Therefore, I ask you to be a little more careful in your speech, to be more robbed, dear Minister, this also applies to you because the MPs respect the procedures. You will probably say: you voted against reducing the deadline for proposals from seven to three days. Well, what do you want us to do, adopt a budget within a week or ten days? How do you do that? Do you want to push the budget or do you want to have a thorough discussion? It is obvious that you do not want to have proposals on the budget, but to accept what is proposed by the Council of Ministers. I do not agree with the National Assembly being a rubber stamp on the proposals of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, we will hold on to our proposals, we will argue them, and whatever the National Assembly accepts, this will be the end. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Hey, guys, any lines? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Ademov! Yes, it is, but not the opposition MPs, but the new majority ruling lawmakers, you are blocking the process. [[(Private applause from]] Last week Wednesday and Thursday we didn't work, if you remember, on all the chronographs Mr. Karimansky is here and he knows very well: we had to adopt the Law on Friday for a second vote to be published and to enter into force on 1 July and 7 and the elderly people to receive their pensions, only this will not happen. They will still receive them, but in August.. on August 7th, so when Minister Gokov makes these criticisms, we join him. I hope that today we will end this debate and that the Bulgarian pensioners will get their pensions on time. You are an experienced parliamentarians, you know that in three days the proposals can be made, and the debates must be held, they are not wanted to stop them and change them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u16	Thank you. Mr. Ademov, since this is going to be a line, I'm addressing you. What we have discussed about the adoption of pensions is absolutely on schedule so that pensioners get their pensions back in July. That is, if we accept today, as the Budget and Finance Committee has adopted the pension update model, if I can call it that, there will be no problem in July to get their pensions and I do not accept... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yeah, but it didn't get very clear, and I'm addressing you to make it clear. It has not become very clear and speculative from Mr Svilenski's words that they will not receive their pensions in July, so I would like to clarify and reassure people that in the vote today they will receive their pensions as early as July. Stop scaring the BSP, please! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Third line? Professor Mihailov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Dr. Ademov! Your expertise is undisputed in the field of state social security. The second part of your speech and the conduct of the hysterical horo let us not play it today, especially in these two budgets. And I want to tell you that in order for them to get in, the state budget has to come in tomorrow, you know that thing? You know what's going to happen tomorrow from what you did on the Budget Committee, we already know it, please! So it is very right Georgi Svilenski, we are very right and all of us who saw that you really, with this new majority that you formed last week, are trying to dictate the whole situation in parliament. And on the vote on small budgets and on the vote on the big budget and with the results that will be obtained, we will see what the state will get out of this, but you should know that Bulgarian citizens will really appreciate who has done what for his country every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u19	Thank you, Professor. Dr. Ademov, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u20	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the lines, like Mr. Karimansky's line as if it were support for what I said. However, Mr. Svilensky, I would like to ask you to open the agenda of the previous week at the National Assembly meetings. Is there a point that concerns the budget of state social security, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the state budget? There's no point like that. Who proposes the agenda of the National Assembly? The President of the National Assembly. What arguments do you have against the opposition? I know your arguments what they are, said your Chairman of the BSP Party. Your argument is the opposition not to propose proposals, I told you one to one. And do you remember, by offering alternative budgets, not just one or two or 30 proposals? You were offering alternative budgets! You want the budget procedure to take place within two weeks. How do we do that? When was the budgetary procedure within 10 days in the 30-year history of the National Assembly? You want us to cut the budget. What do you want us to do? The opposition is guilty of what is it that makes proposals?! That he's trying to make... The role of the opposition is to make the proposals, if possible, better, to be in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Blameing a new ruling majority, a new ruling coalition, and so on, these are so imaginary things that have nothing to do with the state social security budget, so I can just smile at them and with nothing else. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The President shall offer points when reports are received. It's kind of a personal explanation. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my first reading, I made our arguments from an ARRANGEMENT why we would support the budget of state social security. I also expressed my criticism. The criticisms are respectively, of course, as the pre-negotiators said, a shortage of the state social security budget. This shortage, which must be compensated by the state budget. This deficit, which is to be compensated in principle by measures to increase the minimum wage; to have a fight against unregulated income; to increase the minimum wage thresholds of the occupations; already 80% of these thresholds are equal to the minimum wage; to increase the maximum social security threshold. It can also be said that economic measures should be taken to support and encourage companies and industries to increase wages. It is important to talk to the sectors of industry and to the employers' organizations in this direction to work because otherwise there is no place for these funds to come and we must constantly fill in the holes in the state budget. As it has already become clear, the billions will be three or four years later. All these things must be compensated in a future very proper management. And I absolutely disagree with the BSP spokespersons just now. We definitely do not stand up to the proposals of a part of the opposition. On the contrary, from the very beginning, we have supported the budget of state social security. And I don't understand how you're assigning us to DPS and GERB? When have we ever been there for them?! Well, that's what I don't understand. Once again, we will support the proposal of the Council of Ministers to update state social security.................. to be clear from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Svilensky, for a line, please. Welcome to our guests today in the hall. Here you go, kids, make yourself comfortable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague, when you were with the DPS, I will tell you last week at the rally you were together. [[Applause and laughter from "We continue the Change."]] You were together then. When were you with the DPS, when did you vote together? Well, when we suggested that the deadline be reduced to three days, you voted against. You were together, and when you didn't register Wednesday and Thursday, you were together again. You were together yesterday at the Budget Commission, where you supported all the proposals to block the budget. You were together then. And how long will you be together, that will be decided by the Bulgarian voters. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Let's run out of lines and then procedures. Mr. Taslakov was the first to be raised. Here you go. And if there are no volunteers from another group, I'll give Mr. Dimitrov the third line. Here you go, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Georgiev, please remind in your backdrop of BSP colleagues who ruled with Oresharski, who raised Peevski as the head of the DANS, who ruled with the DPS during Saxe-Coburg, because they seem to have forgotten. As long as rebirth was never in power. Who, coworkers? It's not Mickey Mouse, it's BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u27	Mr. Taslakov. Thank you. Colleagues, we're going way beyond today's debate. Now there was a speech by Mr. Georgiev, which was political. A line, I suppose, will be able to respond to this political statement in the back, so let's stop with these political statements. Is there a line on the substance of Mr. Georgiev's statement? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, as usual, it's dirty. Mr. Svilensky should always speak politically, and we are talking about the state social security budget. He starts talking and taking out other votes. In the same way you had different votes, for Macedonia, we will not talk about what it is about. Get to the point. I do not want to get into this issue in this debate because the budget of state social security is very important for over 2 million pensioners and we, if we do not accept this budget, these people will not get an increase in pensions. But it is extremely important to know that we will now support this budget, as we have said, at the very first vote, we will support your proposals. And don't talk to me politically from here, because it doesn't make sense. The whole people saw how you voted in many other votes, especially for the weapons for Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u29	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are you holding, Mr. Karimansky, for the procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, a very brief and clear procedure. Please, my colleagues and all who are on the left, right, center, from anywhere, please, let's stick to the law, the letter of the law and the spirit of the law that we are looking at today. All kinds of political statements, who, with whom, betrothals, what he will do, if he divides, let's not discuss them now. Give for a minute at least or for an hour, two, three to be really focused and focused on the budget of state social security. Thank you. And please, this is to you specifically, not to colleagues, but it is to you that you do not allow such things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u31	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky, you're absolutely right, let's stick to the topic of today's debate. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Allow me as a Vidinian who invited these wonderful children from my hometown, and on behalf of all MPs from the Vidin region, on your behalf, let us welcome them! May we set an example today of true parliamentaryism. [[Applause.]] Welcome, children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u33	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Once again, welcome to our guests today! I hope they're interested. Are there any other people who would like to speak, colleagues? Mr. Minister, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Interesting debate is under way, with a slight political bias. I'd like to take the floor, and I'd like to get involved politically, but I'm not going to, because I don't think it's okay, and what we had to say, we said. The first point of the budget is always interesting and there are the biggest speeches, so I can't help but take the floor myself. And since GERB has offered their way of updating pensions, I will also talk about it. GERB offers a different approach to update pensions, respectively the income of pensioners. Upgrading of employment pensions granted until 31 December 2021 is proposed, with a higher percentage than 1 July................................................................................................................ Additional amounts of BGN 60 are offered. to continue for all pensioners until the end of the year, without them being included in the actual amount of the pension. The proposed version of § 11 of the Bill cancels the provision proposed by the Council of Ministers, which provides for the recalculation of pensions on 1 October. The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age is determined differently and is proposed to be 430 instead of the proposed by the Council of Ministers 467 BGN. Upon payment of the additional amounts of BGN 60 A total income of BGN 490 is formed. monthly for this type of pensions until the end of the year. The increase of the so-called ceiling of pensions to BGN 2000 since July 1 is supported, it is not supported to increase to BGN 3400. October 1st. Now I'm not going to talk about the motives of the importers, but I'm saying all this to get us to § 1, where it's about revenue and expenses. The approach proposed by GERB to update pensions and in general the incomes of pensioners by the end of the year is different and is interesting. The proposal is interesting, requires attention, but raises a serious question: is it acceptable, or is it populist? I ask this question because, from an expert point of view, it seems to be quite acceptable and at first glance, I am under the impression that an increase in pensions is proposed according to the social security contribution and the same percentage corresponds to the social security rules adopted. Since the amount of pensions depends on the contribution of the persons, therefore, there is a ratio between the individual pensions reflecting this contribution. This ratio is maintained when updating at the same rate as those with greater contribution receive more. But is it really so? In my opinion, most arguments are in the direction that the proposal is generally unacceptable because it continues the wicked practice with the payment of long-term supplements introduced by the same importers without giving lasting decisions on pensions themselves. As a common income for pensioners, this proposal has a slight advantage over the proposal of the Council of Ministers, but as a pension amount it is definitely less favourable to pensioners. And given that giving supplements to pensioners sounds like a handout, along with the possibility of taking it or not being continued at this stage, such an approach is unacceptable. Secondly, once again, no decision on the convergence of back-to-back pensions with the more modern, even on the contrary, the differences are deepening. Next, this shifts the decision-making on the adequacy of pensions and justice in the pension system for budget 2023 or further and makes it compulsory to reserve a future significant resource for adequate decisions on pensions. In principle, the higher the update rate, the greater the difference in size between the pensions allocated in a more distant and in a closer period of time. This would require a significant additional resource to improve justice and adequacy. The proposals do not solve the problem of growing confidence in the pension system. The government is convinced that the proposal of the Council of Ministers to increase the ceiling of pensions is a motive and an incentive to take one or another action by the insurers and insured persons, so we hold forward to proposals relating to the maximum amount of pensions so that we can give a positive signal to those providing maximum insurance income and to those whose real incomes are higher than it is in view of future increases in maximum social security income either with or without an automatic mechanism. And let it not sound like nagging, but how is it reflected in your proposal, honourable Members of GERB, your request for clear and concrete measures on how the income in the insurance system will increase and what will happen in 2023 and 2024, and can we afford these pension increases without increasing taxes without increasing the insurance without borrowing? And your generalized question where will the funds for payment of pensions be found in the coming years? a point of reference that you have used all the time during the discussion and adoption of the first vote on the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Your proposal, if I may say so, is not cheaper than that of the Council of Ministers, unless you do so out of populism and election, or after the end of the year, do not prepare to remove the supplements that you do not want to put permanently into pensions and leave pensioners again with lower benefits from pensions and with reduced incomes, as you have done many times in time during your 12-year reign. Do I need to remind you about 2010 and 2011 and 2012? Is this true against the backdrop of your claims that the political party GERB and the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ is firm for increasing pensions? And I want to ask you a question, you said 36 million on an annual basis is less your proposal, as costs for the pension system. This makes less than six million a month, which is negligible for the pension system. However, you said something else very interesting with two billion less for next year, which clearly and clearly must sound to all MPs, should sound to all Bulgarian pensioners, to the Bulgarian society, that you are preparing to solve problems in the pension system again only at the expense of the people who receive pensions. These two billion, which you reduce in future spending compared to the expenditures provided by the Council of Ministers, are exactly what you will remove from them the supplement and remain on the low pensions. If we conditionally accept that the proposal of the Council of Ministers shows us social justice, efficiency and financial sustainability, as you have argued all the time, including the debates in the Commission, the question arises: is GERB's proposal socially fair, effective and financially sustainable in time? And it is certainly good to explain to the Bulgarian citizens, to the Bulgarian pensioners these two billion you are saving, again at their expense, because I can debate and about where two billion more or three billion more will come from for the future pensioners on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, but you, when you say that these costs will be two billion less, should say on whose back are these two billion less costs for the pension system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Guys, are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, please take your seats so we can proceed to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 212 MPs: 83 against 103, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I put to the vote the name of the bill, which is in the version of the Commission, and § 1, which is by importer. 200 MPs voted: 194, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to proceed with the report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Moving on to § 2. According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-196: The following amendments shall be made in § 2: 1. In para. 2: 1.1. In the text the number 1.2. In the table, in line "I." COSTS AND TRANSFERS 1.3. In the table, in row The sum of the costs of the number..14 038 110.4.. becomes..14 062 655.3.. 1.4. In the table, in row The number of pensions is "14 037 501,9" becomes "14 062 046,8." 1.5. In the table, in row,1.1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. In para. 3 of row "DEFICITE/-" EXTRACTION/+/" "The number "seven-422 885,4" becomes 7 447 430,3 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-196: The following amendments shall be made in § 3: 1. In para. 2: 1.1. In the text, the number? 1 172 134.3?? 1 092 727.4. 1.2. In the table, in line "I." COSTS AND TRANSFERS 1.3. In the table, in row The cost of the number 1.4. In the table, in row The number of pension accounts is 1 172 132,5 and becomes 1 092 725.6. 1.5. In the table, in row 1.1.1. Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security. The number..1 172 132,5.. 1 092 2. In para. 3, in line with "DEFICITE/-," EXTRACTION/+/ "342 200,0" becomes "-262 793,1" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u37	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the discussion on § 2 and 3. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? Statements? Mr. Secretary? You don't want the word. I'm calling off the discussion. We'll wait a few seconds for the coworkers to take their seats in the room again. There are two proposals - one in § 2 and one in § 3 - which are not supported by the Commission. I'll put them to the vote first. Colleagues, please take your seats and I will ask you to stay in the room and after Mr. Karimansky continues reading the report. First of all, I am voting on the proposal made by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs in § 2, which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 202 MPs: 78, against 98, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Next, I will put to the vote the proposal by MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs in § 3, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 201 MPs: for 78, against 92, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 and § 3 which are by importer. Vote 177 MPs: 173, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u38	Paragraph 4... by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. A proposal has been made under § 5 by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-196: The following amendments shall be made in § 5: 1. In para. 2: 1.1. In the text, the number..76 943.6. becomes.77 305.6. 1.2. In the table, in row I. COSTS AND TRANSFERS 1.3. In the table, in row The cost of the number 1.4. In the table, in row The number of pensions is seven 739,9. 1.5. In the table, in row 1.1.1. Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security. 2. In para. 3, of the row "DEFICITE /-/, EXTRACTION The Commission does not support the text. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. A proposal has been made under § 6 by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-196: The following amendments shall be made in § 6: 1. In para. 1: 1.1. In the text the number 1.2. In the table, in line "I." COSTS AND TRANSFERS 1.3. In the table, in row Received additional transfers from the central/state budget. The number..8 329 047.0..8 274 547.0.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 3, of the row "DEFICITE /-/, EXTRACTION /+/ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. According to § 7 there is a proposal received by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-196: In § 7, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-219: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10, t. BGN 392,57 is replaced by BGN 481,80 is replaced by the number BGN 481,80. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-196: In Paragraph 8, paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: 2, p. 3 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u39	Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on paragraphs 4 through 8. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech is under § 7, where we have a proposal that the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age should be replaced: 392,57 BGN. With 467 leva. The calculations that we have made are based on what we are offering next a 14% increase in all pensions plus the cod add-on is obtained this amount of 467 BGN. What the managers propose for the minimum amount of the pension is, in fact, what I said just now is the proposal of the government, and our proposal is slightly further down the number 392,57 BGN. is replaced by the number 481,80 BGN Dear colleagues, what the government has offered, notice, is an increase of 37 leva compared to what has been achieved so far. 37 leva. per month means BGN 1.19. BGN 1.19 is the proposal made by the government to increase the minimum amount of retirement and age pension. What we are doing as a proposal is five times the size of the pension, BGN 5,19, with those 14%, which we propose an increase in the minimum amount of the pension. So everyone can decide whether it's about bidding or whether it's about looking for a better solution. We propose that these parameters, if the MPs agree, my request is to support this proposal. The required amount of the pension for internship and age will become BGN 481,80. instead of those 467 BGN that are offered, that is, we are proposing an increase, which is based on the fact that the amount of pensions increases by 14% and to them are added those 60 BGN. We have further said that the 60 levs are up to the end of calendar 2022. From there on a legitimately elected government in the next parliament will decide what to do with this amount...................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Honest Arabadjiev. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Ademov, what you are proposing is a 30% increase in the minimum pension of BGN 370. the 480, with which you make the same mistake that GERB also made "premature increase of the minimum pension compared to the average." Because you are proposing a 14% increase in the remaining pensions, which resulted in 50% of pensioners on a minimum pension. With the government's proposal, the minimum pension is increased to 467 BGN, but because of the inclusion of the 60 BGN in the amount of the pension, we do not deepen this problem, but with the recalculation of 1 October, which you do not include it, but we include it and keep it on it, 200 thousand pensioners will come out of the minimum pension and enter the middle between the minimum and the ceiling with which they will receive the actual amount of their pensions and this improves the system. So I cannot agree with your proposal and we will support what the Council of Ministers has proposed. And with what you're proposing, the presence of a supplement by the end of the year, you're transferring, as GERB did, the problem of the next. But who will make the political decision on December 31st that the supplements will then be dropped? Who will make the political decision that pensioners have a reduction in income? Then a decision will be made to continue again. What we do once and for all, we include the benefits in the amount of the pension and we continue with the annual indexes based on inflation and the growth of insurance income. And you too, your proposal introduces two types of supplements and 120 levs, depending on whether the person's pension is below the poverty line. That's how you discriminate against people. One person gets 60 BGN, but another person with a higher contribution will receive 60 BGN, but another person with a smaller one will receive 120 BGN, and this person will catch up with a higher contribution, which we do not agree with. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Are there any other lines? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is obvious that the confusion with the Chairman of the Social Committee is total. Why am I saying this? Because he, first of all, didn't understand what our proposal was. Secondly, our proposal is a reaction to the cult replica of your Deputy Prime Minister, who said something about the poor in Bulgaria. Next, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we believe that those people who are in the risk group should be supported primarily because without a copy of the supplements and without the additional compensation 782,000 Bulgarian pensioners are below the line of poverty, and by putting these supplements, it becomes 318 thousand. Which means that they need to be helped mostly so that they can climb above the poverty line, these people. Because not us, but your Prime Minister and your Minister of Finance say that in Bulgaria there is no pension under the line of poverty - something that is definitely not true and is an absolute lie. And you have to admit that. Last but not least, Mr. Arabadjiev, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that you will never be in the government to make these types of management decisions after the New Year. [[Applause from DPS.]] You will not make these management decisions because at the end of your short term you have no legitimate grounds for making such crucial decisions. You're not the people who can judge that. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Ali. Mr. Arabadjiev, I'm recording you and you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms has tabled our proposals between first and second readings on the update of the state social security budget. First reading was accepted on June 15th. Our proposals, honourable Members, are specific, justified and targeted at the most vulnerable public groups. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as Dr. Ademov said, offer all 2 million. 037 thousand. 526 pensions to be updated, updated by 14% plus 60 BGN. a kind of supplement to be outside the pension, as this distorts the pension model, which has also been alerted by a number of experts. And for those pensioners, about whom Dr. Ademov mentioned, over 730 thousand pensioners who receive a pension below the poverty threshold at the moment, the poverty threshold in Bulgaria is BGN 413, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing that these pensioners receive a supplement of BGN 120. by the end of the year. I would like to remind you that in order to reach the pensions the current level they are receiving today, the reason was the addition of 120 BGN, which was won by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. If you remember, last year in September, when we proposed every Bulgarian pensioner to receive 120 BGN. a supplement, this proposal was supported by all the leaders and opposition. I recall this because then our proposal was met with comments about bidding, and I am convinced that there will be such comments and now that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is hardly bidding with its proposals. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the agenda of the Bulgarian society, the agenda of the Bulgarian citizens at present, is the rushing inflation. You know that according to official data of the NSI inflation in Bulgaria for May, compared to May last year, is 15.6% and inflation for the small consumer basket, inflation for first-rate products is between 30 and 40%. Record inflation not only ate the savings of Bulgarian citizens but also turned them into a million army of working poor. And just for comparison, to understand the inflation in the EU member states, inflation in the Eurozone, average inflation is 8.1%. That's why we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are proposing to be able to compensate for this inflation, a 14% increase in all pensions plus the 60 BGN Kovid supplement. remains, and for those who are the most vulnerable pensioners with the lowest pensions, below the poverty threshold of BGN 413. We offer to receive this supplement by the end of the year from 120 BGN. And before anyone goes on to explain that this proposal is an election proposal, I would like to say that the Political Party "A Movement for Rights and Freedoms" does not need political tricks to show convincing results as it showed in the last parliamentary elections. And on behalf of the parliamentary group of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" I invite all Members of the National Assembly, regardless of whether they are ruling or opposition, to support this proposal of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" which is in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens, in the interests of the most vulnerable groups, namely Bulgarian pensioners. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines to that statement? Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u48	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members, my reply is in the direction that what my colleagues from the DPS offer with regard to the 14 per cent increase in all pensions, note that it is only up to the end of 2022. The 60 levs, which are added, are up to the end of 2022, i.e. pensions will be BGN 481,80. the minimum until the end of 2022, and as of next year, this supplement, which we have been talking about for a long time, should be gone. That is why we actually offer the 60 leva supplement to enter the amount of the pension and the minimum pension of 1 July to be 467 leva. and, respectively, from 1 October to have an update of pensions in a completely different way so that people can truly receive fair pensions, pensions that correspond to their work experience, pensions that meet their ratio, and that there really is no such inequality in receiving pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly. Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, thank you for your reply. The budget is not for a fifth, and the budget is a year per year, so from December there will be a new budget for 2023. [[Reply from Mustafa Karadaiy, from the place: "Bravo!" and applause from the DPS.]] But I would like to remind you, Mrs. Dimitrova, that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is once again fulfilling your promise, because you before the New Year, if you remember when you came to power with your Minister, because you are in power since 3 December last year, you promised that after the New Year, after the withdrawal of the Kovid supplement that was taken during the months of October, November and December, there will be no pension that will be lower after the withdrawal of the Kovid supplement. Well, it turns out that's when you lied to a million and forty thousand people. For the first time in the latest history of Bulgaria the minimum wage has not been updated since January 1st, again in your management. Therefore, please at least be grateful that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is fulfilling your promise, a promise that you made to the Bulgarian citizens, to the voters of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u52	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u53	Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mr. Chairman, you should have made a remark and reminded Mr. Ali that these supplements for October, November and December were 120 leva each. on a proposal from the DPS, whatever proposal of 120 leva. supplements to pensions and now makes DPS. So, Mr. President, sometimes when our young MPs make gaps in their speeches, make them remarks. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. However, I will ask you, when speaking on the substance, that they be in the form of a speech so that colleagues can take the attitude. Until now, there has been no such precedent in the context of a procedure to make a point. Please continue in that tone. Mr. Arabadjiev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr President, thank you for making a comment earlier on the inexperienced parliamentarians, as we follow the Rules and when we want to make a statement, we do so by procedure and not by procedural rules. I'd like to take the floor for §7 and §8. Paragraph 7 concerns the amount of the minimum pension. I want to explain why the government offers the minimum pension of 467 BGN. This is the calculation made on a base of BGN 370. Currently minimum pension, 10% increase, which becomes BGN 407, and inside we insert 60 levs, which are currently received at BGN 467. That's what we're trying to do with a few things. We have looked at many options - over 15 versions of different proposals, but we have decided on this option, because this way the pensioners receive the 10% increase, which absolutely compensates for inflation for last year, as is the Law at the moment of 100% or the increase of the insurance income. Next year, the update will also predict an indexation by increasing pensions by a percentage, which is inflation or the growth of the insurance income from this year. So playing with the fact that we are currently offset inflation should not be done. The Law states that the indexing on July 1st compensates for inflation or the growth of the insurance income compared to last year. So next year we'll get this compensation from higher growth. One note to Mr. Ali. When comparing inflation, use the harmonised index as this is the right mechanism to compare inflation in Europe and do not save that there are countries with more than 20% harmonised inflation, which is related to energy resources. With regard to § 8, which is the ceiling of pensions, the colleagues from DPS are conveniently not commenting on it, but the Budget Committee suggested that there should be an increase in the ceiling of pensions only to BGN 2000. I don't agree here. We offer two steps. From July 1st increase in the ceiling of the pension of BGN 2000 so that all pensioners can receive the increase, which we currently foresee from 10% and the introduction of BGN 60 and from October 1st we propose the ceiling to become BGN 3400. We bind it to October 1 because on the one hand the older pensions, which were granted years ago, the lower will receive this increase, which they have been making since October 1st, and then we want to compensate for the people who are at the moment in the attic, they will then receive the increase of BGN 3400. Currently there are 34,000 people who are on the ceiling of the pension, and from 1 October there will be about 1000. In this way, we increase the amount of pensioners who receive the actual amount of pension. As President of the Commission, I receive many messages both on social networks and on my official mail of people who have been very serious in contributing to the system and have been damaged for many years. Because that's the word. They put in insurance, they expect to get the real amount of their pension, but they haven't received it in years. And I mean why we set 3400. This is 100% of the maximum insurance income and in the future we plan both the maximum insurance income to increase compared to the average salary in the country, and the pension ceiling to go with this increase in the maximum insurance income, but 3400 is the amount that allows all third-country persons to receive the actual amount of their pension, taking into account if they have been insured for the last 20 years of maximum insurance income. In addition, we will allow the categorical workers to take the real amount of their pension. Why, though, is there a limit of 3400? Because we all know that before 2000 there was no ceiling of maximum insurance income. And before 1997, the NSI infrastructure did not have a digital data archive and it was chosen and yet the three best years did not take the real contribution of the individuals. Therefore, there are some pensioners who have over 3400 and we believe that their contribution should not take a pension greater than BGN 3400, but our commitment is to raise this every year with the growth of the insurance income so that the contribution and trust in the system will return, and every person who is currently provided with the maximum, get the real amount of the pension in relation to the contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Mr. Ademov for the first line, Mrs. Sacheva for the second, the third is still available. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Dear Mr. Arabadzhiev, the Social Security Code is needed again. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 is recorded one to one. The consumer price index. It is further stated that the consumer price index is the harmonised consumer price index. There's a small difference. So Mr. Ali is right in what you said. This one, first. Secondly, as regards the maximum amount of pensions. I strongly disagree with the fact that what is being done at the moment is increasing, increasing the amount of maximum pensions. Why am I saying this? Because what is currently being done is a restoration of justice, as so far these people have been limited by the ceiling. It has demotivated young people to be provided on maximum size. I mean, right now we can't talk about an increase at all. We can't compare the increase in minimum size and maximum size because this parexelance is not an increase. It's a restoration of justice. So if you ask me about the maximum size, I'm about to drop the maximum size at all, and I'm convinced that this size will ever drop.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mrs. Sacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Arabadjiev, two questions for you. First, in terms of inequalities. What you are proposing as a minimum pension at the moment is ahead of other pensions at a significantly higher rate and brings the minimum pension closer to the other pensions, which are, however, linked to retirement and age. You know that this was one of the main criticisms and continues to be one of the main criticisms of this system, that the minimum pension is growing at a faster pace than people who have paid social security who have been working internship. Why do you assume this inequality, first? My second question is: why does this ceiling of 3400 ultimately remain, when only 1,000 people will be limited by it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Is there a third line? I can't see. For the coat, Mr. Arabadjiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the line. Dr. Ademov, first to you. Tell the person who has taken 1500 BGN so far that when he starts to receive 3,400 BGN, this is not an increase in the pension. You see, you have ruled for many years either within the Triple Coalition or then informally and with GERB you even had ministers in the last government, who were recalled after the protests 2020, we managed to increase the amount of people who actually took their pension in 6 months. You haven't been able to do that for many years. We have the political will and we have finally succeeded in implementing it. With regard to Ms. Sacheva's questions, the fact is that the minimum pension increases by a higher percentage than the average percentage of the other pensions. However, the amount for the pensioners of a minimum pension does not increase as a percentage from 1 July, as the 60 leva, which gives the different percentage, is put into the pension of each pensioner, so as of 1 July we retain the actual situation of the pensioner from you - 50% of the pensioners are at a minimum, but by 1 October of these 1 million pensioners 200 thousand will go beyond the minimum because of the recalculation we have made. So we're improving the system right now. But this was the compromise we had to make so there wouldn't be a pensioner with a lower income than July 1st if we had decided to drop the 60 levs. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicine. The second question: why there is a pension ceiling, I explained it. There are a few people, there are retired people who even have 15,000. lv. calculated pension. I think it is unfair, given that we have had years in which we are not sure of the authenticity of the data before 2000 or before 1997, when we have chosen the three best years and one person within only 3 years who chooses them and does not want to look at the entire contribution, can receive such a pension. We therefore insist that there is a ceiling of the pension, which is already under the current provisions of the Law, the amount of the maximum pension itself is limited naturally because of the maximum social security income, as pensioners are now retired only in the case of insurance income after 2000, where, since 2000, we have a maximum social security income. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. In the manner of holding Mr. Anastasov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u64	Dear Mr. President, I would like you to remind my colleague, who has just made a duplicate, who is very excited about what pensions people with parliamentary salaries will be taking, not trying to use here, from the stands, the pillars of the circle. I know that he, besides the Capital and the Dnevnik, reads and the Dnevnik, and the Capital all day long. However, I would remind you that Boyko Borisov's recognition was only that in the government, apart from the official partners from the government, he had ministers who were given to him by Ivo Prokopiev. Yeah, that wasn't written in Capital and Dnevnik, but everywhere else there was. Please remind your colleague when he is trying to make factual inaccuracies like the Prime Minister................................................................................................ that this has become fashion...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u66	...many things remain written.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u67	We understand the procedure. To address Mr. Georgi Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to say what will guide my vote in choosing between the proposals made. I know that a famous speech starts like this: I have a dream, but I will also start like this: I have a dream that the fates of over 2 million Bulgarian citizens will not depend on any person sitting in this room! This is my dream! [[Heckling]] Well, I think there's a way. I'd appreciate it if you didn't replicate me! [[Heckling]] There's a way to do that by creating total automation. For example, as the BNB does not vote on the budget, we do not vote on the budget of the BNB here we do not vote on the budget of BNB! The same should happen with the NSI and the NSI to be an independent organization that is not subject to our passions here and respectively the pensions of the Bulgarians to be calculated according to the rules laid down in law. [[Heckling]] Whether we move towards this dream of mine will lead my vote today. Among the three proposals, the only proposal, which, albeit with a huge compromise, moves us in this direction, is the proposal of the Council of Ministers. While the proposal of colleagues from the DPS, as happened last year, so I think that the examples of last year are very appropriate, the offer of colleagues from the DPS is as follows to the two million Bulgarians: Every year you will depend on us! Every year, what kind of income you get is up to us! We have the levers, we have the bread, we have the knife, know it! Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? Mr. Minister, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the debate on the minimum pension, however, I will start from the beginning with speculation here, which has been made by several people, that there has been some failure since January 1st, that some promises have not been fulfilled that some pensions have been lower than others. There's no such thing. All Bulgarian pensioners in February received what was promised by this government, and there is no dispute on this issue. There may have been an argument in the first few days of January, but now to recall this is even incorrect. The DPS proposal also offers a different approach to raising pensioners' incomes. With so much expertise at the DPS, such a confused proposal just seems incredible to me. So I'm going to remind you what the DPS proposal is. It is proposed to update employment pensions granted by 31 December 2021 with a higher percentage than 1 July. Instead of 10%, as is the government's proposal, 14 percent, as according to importers the expected increase in the harmonised index of consumer prices at the end of 2022 is 15%. It is proposed that the payment of the additional amounts to pensions will continue for all pensioners until the end of the year, without them being included in the actual amount of the pension, as is the approach adopted in the legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, and the proposal is to pay 120 leva. monthly pensioners who receive a pension or sum of pensions up to BGN 413, including BGN 60 monthly when these amounts are above BGN 413. monthly, that is, they are above the poverty line. Now, by introducing this different size, why I say that the proposal is confused and bordered on some other things and not on any social security principles, that by introducing this different amount of additional amounts to pensions depending on the pension or the sum of pensions of persons below or above the poverty line, the pension system introduces elements characteristic of social assistance or rather of another supporting mechanism which we believe is not acceptable. In addition, it results in a total income which does not correspond to the contribution of the persons. For example, a pensioner with a pension of BGN 412. will receive 120 BGN, i.e. the total amount to be received is 532 BGN. Retirement with a larger contribution and pension amount of BGN 414 For example, it receives an additional amount of 60 BGN, i.e. a total income of 474 BGN. With regard to the provision that these amounts are paid in the order and manner laid down by the Council of Ministers, I believe that issuing a special act to the Council of Ministers is not necessary because the proposed provision by colleagues contains all the conditions for paying the additional amounts to the pension. Given all this, I accept the proposal as unacceptable. In addition, it creates an opportunity to find a solution of 1 January that is in line with the principles of pension policy. In addition, guaranteeing the income received would require a significant additional financial resource. And now two words on the minimum pension. I would like to pay very serious attention to all colleagues who are present in the Chamber, and to pensioners through the media, because, I suppose, it is broadcast in the media as well from the proposal of the DPS it becomes clear that the minimum pension becomes 425 BGN. In GERB's proposal the minimum pension becomes BGN 430. The proposal of the Council of Ministers is for a minimum pension of 467 BGN. One slight detour. So far, I say again that it is speculated that with the words of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and in my words, there is no pension for time and old age less than the poverty threshold. Yes, I confirm that there is no pension for serviced time and old age that is lower than the limit of the poverty line, which is BGN 413 and the minimum pension is BGN 430. There's no pension lower than the poverty line. And now for the famous 120 BGN, which is widely proclaimed by almost enormous support to the people, which is considerably larger, you see, from the one that the government offers. Here, I tell you: the government, the Council of Ministers offers 467 leva. minimum pension, 425 BGN The proposed by the DPS plus the supplement becomes BGN 481, so at BGN 14.80. More than that or 50 cents a day. So for those 120 leva. That's it! Thus, determining the minimum amount of the pension differs from the proposed approach for the payment of additional amounts to the pension outside their basic amount. Thus, the persons receiving a minimum pension will receive 60 BGN included in the basic amount of the pension and an additional 60 BGN. or BGN 120, the additional amount to the pension depends on the total amount of the pension or the sum of pensions. We believe that this approach should not in any way be supported in the payment of the additional amounts of BGN 60. a total income of BGN 541,80 is formed. monthly for this type of pensions until the end of the year and on the payment of 120 BGN. to the pension the total income of a person who receives the minimum pension for insurance service and age is BGN 661,80. That is, my view is that the proposals of the DPS are not acceptable from an expert and political point of view. And as Mr. Ganev, I would like to say that I too very much not to depend on any political decisions, and every year the pensioners will eventually tremble whether someone will continue to give them the extra amounts as supplements to the pension or stop giving them depending on the will of the one who gives it. When we do that, then we can talk about some justice in the pension system. Otherwise, the elements of social assistance and the poverty line are, of course, very important. That is why the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of course, with the support of the National Assembly, we have undertaken this reform in the social sphere with the proposals that we have made for amendments to the Social Assistance Act so that support can be given to Bulgarians who cannot cope with life alone, is linked to the poverty line, not to the fictional amount and guaranteed minimum income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For the procedure Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u72	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I wouldn't be taking this procedure if I didn't repeat what Mr. Ganev just said and what Minister Gokov said. Colleagues, when you do not want one solution, one text from the Social Security Code is not dependent on one or another group of MPs, well, you have a legislative initiative and you can make a proposal to cancel in the budget of the State Social Security the minimum amount of pension not to be determined by the Council of Ministers. There's one to one! It's a political decision. The Council of Ministers is the one that determines the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age. Transferring this responsibility to one or another of the national representation means not knowing the social security legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Guys, are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, please take your seats so we can move on to the vote. There are five proposals that are not supported by the Commission. We'll start with them. Colleagues, I'm about to give her a break. We'll try to get this bill over with, and then there'll be a half-hour rest. I think most of the MPs are already in the room. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs in § 5, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 211 MPs: for 80, against 99, abstention 32. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs in § 6, which is also not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u74	Shouldn't we vote on the proposal in § 5 by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u75	We'll vote then all the Anblocks, Mr. Ademov. If there are objections, we will vote separately, but first we vote, anyway, the proposals that have been rejected. Please, voting mode. Vote 208 MPs: 81 against 96 abstention 31. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs in § 7, which is also not supported by the Commission. Vote 212 MPs: 81 against 102, abstention 29. That's why the offer isn't accepted. [[(Noise and lines from DPS:) Let's reschedule it!]] I shall put the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs in § 7, which is also not supported by the Commission. Have all the coworkers been able to vote? [[(Noise and lines:) Wait!]] Okay, I'm waiting. Colleagues, please take your seats, but there are still a few votes. Did everyone vote? They voted 215 MPs: for 82, against 104, abstention 29. That's why the offer isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u76	We want a re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u77	Please, re-election mode. We are revising the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in § 7, which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Did everyone get a vote? Professor Tonev? We're just waiting a few more seconds, guys. They voted 216 MPs: 84, against 84, abstention 48. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs in § 8, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 216 MPs: for 86, against 104, abstention 26. That's why the offer isn't accepted. Now, fellow Members, we must move on to voting on the main texts. Mr. Ademov, do you have any objections to voting them separately or any particular paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u78	All the paragraphs except § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u79	Are all the paragraphs because there are five paragraphs, colleagues, not five separate votes?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u80	Let's vote #7 separately!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u81	Okay, just Paragraph 7. Colleagues, I put to the vote paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 8, which are by importer. Hey, guys, did everyone get a vote? Vote 218 MPs: for 218 against and abstention there is no. With this, the proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote § 7, which is also an importer. Please, voting mode. Vote 214 MPs: 213 against 1, no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u82	I want the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u83	Mr. Karadayi, for a negative vote? Here you go, you have the floor, and then I'll give you half an hour off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against by voting for the proposed increase in pension, but I voted against, and I will argue why. The proposal for an increase in the pension is BGN 467, but we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we made a proposal for BGN 481,80. a pension that you did not support, and such an opportunity in this budget has. From this point of view, Mr President, I voted against in order to make it clear in the whole House that we are voting for the increase of 467 BGN, which, in our view, is not enough. According to the current budget, the increase could be BGN 481,80. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u85	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Colleagues, break till 1:30. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u86	Mr. Karimansky, come in. Moving on to § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs No 47-254-04-196: The following amendments shall be made under § 9: 1. On line two. The cost-per-view is the number of "83 760.3" becomes "71 660.3". 2. In line with the current costs, the number 3. In line with the Pensions, the number..83 731,2. becomes.71 631,2. 4. On the line, Pensions from the Master's Pension Fund. The number of the Master's pension fund. The number of the Master's pension fund. The number of the Master's pension fund. 5. In line "Addibles from the Teacher's Pension Fund" the number "supplied from the Master's Pension Fund" "supplied from the Master's Pension Fund" (suppl. 63,995.7") becomes "53,963,1" (supplied from the Master's Pension Fund). 6. In line with the "IV." Deficit (-) /excess (+) 7. In line with V. In the case of loans, the amount of the loan is equal to the amount of the loan, which is equal to the amount of the loan, which is equal to the amount of the loan, which is 8. In line with the terms of the "Deposits and funds in accounts "net" (+/-) "the number"..1 151,4 " 9. In line with the rest of the BNB at the end of the period (-) the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. According to § 10, there is a proposal of the People's Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs - No 47-254-04-196: The following amendments shall be made in § 10: 1. Line up. Revenues and transfers - the number 2. Line two. Transfers received from the central/state budget 3. On line two. Expenditures and transfers 4. Line one. The sum of the costs of the number..18 328 929,2..18 262 5. In line.1.1. The number of pensions is..15 590 655.5..15 524 6. In line with the Deficit/-/, the surplus /+/ is the number 7. In line with the Finance, the number..19 435.2................................................................................................................... 8. In line with the terms of the "Deposits and funds in accounts" the number "+/-" becomes "7" 958,9" becomes "4 141,1". 9. In line with the end of the period's assets (-), the number.111 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. 'Concluding provisions'. Proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of Members of the National Assembly No 47-254-04-196: The name of the department of final provisions becomes "Transitional and final The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 11 there is a proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs No 47-254-04-196: "Paragraph 11 is amended as follows: § 11. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ), Paragraph 7g shall be established in the Transitional and Final Provisions: .................................................................................. (1) In 2022 pensions shall not be updated under art. 100. (2) The amount determined in accordance with this Code as of 30 June 2022 shall be increased by 15 per cent by 31 December 2021. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of the National Assembly No 47-254-04-219: "1." Everywhere in § 7g of the Concluding provisions, the number 2. All over § 7g, par. 2; para. 3, p. 1 and 2; para. 4; para. 5; para. 6; para. 7, p. 1 and 2; para. 8; para. 9; para. 10; para. 11; para. 13; para. 14 BGN 60 is the amount of the pension, if the amount of the pension is less than the line of poverty for 2022 or the text continues until the end of the corresponding subparagraph. 3. Alinea 18 of § 7g.... to fall. 4. A new para is being created. 19 with the following content: The additions on the basis of Decree No 479 of the Council of Ministers of 2021 under the budget of the DEA for 2021 and the amount under § 7, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2022, when calculated, as well as the sum of 120 BGN, shall be paid separately from pensions in order and manner determined by a decision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. Proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of Members of the National Assembly No 47-254-04-196: The following shall be created § 12: ................................................................................... (1) The pension or sum of pensions together with the supplements and compensations to each pensioner for the months of July, August, September, October, November and December 2022 shall be paid an additional amount of BGN 60. (2) The additional amount under para. 1 shall be paid above the limit referred to in § 8, para. 2. The present § 12 becomes § 13. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 9 and 12 inclusive. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My speech will be under § 12.. the proposal that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS have tabled. During the discussion of the state social security budget at first reading in plenary, I said that with such a political decision to change the pension system you are proposing, you are putting the future functioning of the pension system at risk. With the proposal that the 60 BGN supplement, which pensioners receive so far, be included in the basic amount of pension, the government resigns trying forcefully to impose a change in the pension model. I say forcefully because this proposal was not subject to a broad public discussion, it was not discussed in advance with the opposition and it was not attracted as a group that could debate these proposals. Of course, and ultimately even the social partners in the face of employers' organisations, employees' organisations did not support this proposal, and when it comes to the way in which pension funds are to be allocated, there must be a broad public consensus. The pension system in Bulgaria is built on the principle of solidarity, i.e. today's working and providing people endure with their insurances, which are supported by the fund of pensioners, today's pensioners, and in fact this political decision of the government in resignation is a kind of signal that you give to today's working people, namely to ignore their social security commitment, that is to say not to provide for real social security income, because after years, when it comes time to retire, they will have an equal start with those citizens who have worked less as a duration and have provided for lower social security income and this signal will work demotically. On the other hand, today's pensioners, who have worked hard and contributed 35 or 40 years of insurance, will receive an equal amount of BGN 60. with pensioners who make significantly less insurance contributions both in terms of their insurance service and in terms of social security income. When we talk about raising the incomes of one of the most vulnerable groups in Bulgarian society, namely pensioners, we must distinguish between pension and financial support. The financial support amount aims at a difficult time to assist the Bulgarian pensioners or citizens to cover their pressing needs for food or medicines and, in essence, constitutes social support of a one-off or short-term nature, while the pension is a periodic cash payment for long-term social security. It is because of the risk of pollution of the pension system by including the supplement of 60 BGN. to the basic amount of pensions, we believe that such an approach is wrong and will result in a distortion of the pension model and a violation of the basic principle of the solidarity pension system, namely that the pension is determined according to the insurance contribution of the person. This was the reason why we from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS offer the supplement of 60 BGN. to be paid as well as so far as an additional amount to each pensioner's pension for the period from July to the end of the year. Thus, pensioners will retain additional support for their income in conditions of rising inflation, but at the same time there will be no contamination of the pension income with an artificial inclusion of payments that have nothing to do with the insurance contribution. Last but not least, the position of public finances does not create any additional risks to the sustainability of the pension system with a permanent inclusion in the cost of pensions of payments which should be of a temporary nature. Dear resignors, I assure you that you underestimate the professionalism of employees and social workers in the system of the Agency for Social Assistance because in conditions of pandemic in 2021, during the government of GERB with Social Minister Denitsa Sacheva, a decree of the Council of Ministers was adopted, according to which in art. 64 commitment was signed through the social security system to translate an add-on of 120 BGN. to all pensioners who then received pensions of 300 leva. up to 369 BGN. That means the system's working. There is a sample of a compensation payment model to support pensioners through the social support system and you have no excuse for lack of time or human resources, and you lack the political will to reform. I ask you, honourable Members, to reconsider this proposal once again, because we believe that it is really important that this model, which is proposed through the update of the budget, should not be supported in terms of the fact that it will really distort the pension model and should be looked at this reform through the prism of all Bulgarian citizens, not only of today's pensioners who receive a pension, but also of future citizens who will have to depend on our political decisions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zhekova, I have a few questions that I'd like you to answer as a backdrop. Firstly, if you believe that the Social Assistance Agency has the opportunity to pay the supplements, why did you first start paying them in August 2022 and pay them for eight months? Please comment on this. With regard to the pollution of the pension system. With the 60 levs coming in, as I said, we've developed different options. This is the option in which there is no reduction in income, but we are still ending this annual extension of supplements with the Order of the Council of Ministers. So included once in the amount of the pension, this eliminates the political decision with which each time should be continued. Indeed, political parties have not been able to find a desire in the last two years to do so because, in order for there to be no reduction in income, the percentage by which all pensions must be increased equally is too large and cannot be allowed from the budget. My second question is: you address us that in § 11 you propose that from 1 October 2022 the recalculation of pensions, which we propose, be removed. Please comment on why you do not want this calculation to happen and what is your vision when you do not offer it? We have repeatedly explained that this is one of the most important key changes that are currently taking place with the proposal of the Council of Ministers, as it clears the difference between old and new pensions. What suggestion do you have to reduce this difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, for your coat, Mrs. Jekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the line, Mr. Arabadzhiev. With regard to additives that have been paid on the social support line through the Social Assistance Agency. That means, again, the system's working. You just had to find the political will to continue paying these supplements, which are paid precisely because of the crises that are taking place, to continue paying them in this way so that no distortion in the pension model would occur. It is very important that citizens do not get the impression that there is injustice to them, because this is exactly what citizens who have a high contribution of 35 years will receive 60 BGN. to his pension, and on top of that, 60 leva. they will also receive those pensioners who will have newly granted pensions from 1 July. That is, the insurance contribution of every Bulgarian citizen is also minimized there. You are telling them that those who will retire from July 1 will start with 60 leva. a pension equal to those who make a minimum contribution to the pension system, which is too unfair. On top of that, when you make such important political decisions that concern all Bulgarian citizens, it is important that you make a broad public discussion about these decisions of yours. All these options that you are saying - 15, 20, 30 - and I do not know how many options for pensions - you should have put them on the table and invited the social partners to invite all parliamentary and even non-parliamentary parties to consider these options and to discuss them because they concern all Bulgarian citizens. I think it is very important that when we want to change such a serious system, there is a public and political consensus on this issue, so that all citizens can ultimately feel that we politicians make the right decisions and act fairly towards the income of all who are about to retire or receive a pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute! My proposal is on the final provisions of the Bill amending state social security. What we propose in the Final Provisions is that the 10th increase in pensions by 10% is replaced by 14%. And at this point, I don't know where that 10% came from. Why aren't there eight of them? Why aren't there 12 of them? [[Heckling]] The Minister will hardly answer this question, Mr. Karimanski, because he is entrusted with it by the Ministry of Finance easier to calculate. Thus, with a 10% increase, anyone can make the bill that is needed. There is one important thing here: we need to specify which pensions are below the poverty line, because the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are talking about pensions and pensions are different types. I can now list you at least 500 of 600 thousand pensions that are below the poverty line. If we are talking about pensions for insurance service and age, this is a completely different topic. It is not even for time served, and these are employment pensions for retirement and age, and then with these measures the actual number of those who will be below the poverty line will be significantly reduced. What we are proposing right now, honourable Members. We propose to pensions that are below the poverty line, the additional amount by the end of the year to be 120 BGN. a month. Why did we choose this number 120? It's very simple. First, because at the end of last year, within the three months, Bulgarian pensioners received 120 BGN. Every month the Bulgarian pensioners received an additional amount of 120 BGN. At the time, it was a form of supplement, and now it's otherwise named "anti-inflation." I say that inflation has long eaten these proposals that we are making right now. Inflation has long not covered all these proposals that are being made at the moment. The next thing I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly, Members of the BSP for Bulgaria, you have repeatedly stated over the years that you want pensions to be recalculated. I would support such a proposal if pensions are recalculated with an up-to-date social security income, e.g. 2021. What are you proposing right now? Right now you're proposing what's called a modified Swiss rule. What does this modified Swiss rule mean? There's no such term as this term is invented. Now it's made up. It's either a Swiss rule, or it's a Swiss golden rule. There are no other terminologists. We can name this Swiss rule with a variety of epithets, but from that, justice in the pension system cannot be restored. Why? Because the way you're offering, out of 2 million 37,000 pensioners, only 718,000 will benefit from this modified Swiss rule. What we will tell others: You have reached these amounts and for you not a single penny increase. [[Heckling]] It's not populism, Mr. Dimitrov. You look at me with hope, and I know what you're trying to tell me. It's not populism. It's the truth. What we say to the rest of the pensioners: for you from the generous basket of so far the government will not have a single penny. So I want to remind you of something else that is very important. Dear colleagues, those to whom you wish to raise the amount of pension under the modified Swiss rule as soon as they have retired have no further participation in the growth of the social security income. But no part of it! Since you, if you don't work, you don't make insurance payments and you don't have a share in height, then what's your claim to multiply your size by the ratio we're talking about? None. So if you want to talk about justice, let's make sure that all pensioners have their pensions recalculated with an up-to-date social security income. Thus, in some way we deceive the voters of the BSP for Bulgaria, that we claim all pensions. We do not recalculate them, but once again create inequality between the individual groups of insured persons. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. First line, Mr. Svilensky, then Mr. Karadayi. I don't see any other group presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Ademov, I have listened carefully to your speech and there is no way to challenge your expertise and experience in the field. However, last year, the previous year and before that, when BSP proposed an update, it was 2017 and 2018 and now 2020. You have always said that the odds of 1.25, 1.30 should be changed, the burden of service, that this was fairer. You were telling us: don't do this, you have to figure it out the other way. It's fairer this way. We did something intermediate even at the previous recalculation. Now what we are doing now does not preclude the possibility of 2023 recalculating them, and I am glad that we have your support as well. Let us, when we look at pensions in budget 2023, recalculate them by 2022 already, because they will be up-to-date, but let us understand from now on that we have both your support and not then to come up with some other criterion -- even fairer. Let the Bulgarian pensioners have a foreknown reputation. We now raise by 10% plus 60 BGN, from 1 October 2022 we refer to this modified rule, although it will not affect everyone, but will affect 700,000 Bulgarians, and from 1 January 2023 to do the other recalculation. Then we will perform a vision for Bulgaria.The Bulgarian rule will be implemented and I think we will receive the support of the Bulgarian pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ademov, to your speech I have a few questions that I would like to understand very precisely, because also Mr. Svilenski from what he said as a reply to your statement I think it has not become very clear. Now the increase in pensions, which is accepted, is 10% and the minimum pensions become 467 BGN. Isn't that right? However, the proposal made by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was 14% and the minimum pensions had to be BGN 481,80. That means BGN 482 on which Mr. Svilenski voted against. The other thing that I also want to know, Mr. Ademov. There is one proposal by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for the end of 2021 to have an addition of 120 leva to pensions. It's for the pensioners. Then the National Assembly adopted this proposal and the pensioners received 120 leva. supplement to pensions. There were voices in the Chamber that this was impossible, but it was evident that it was possible because the corresponding calculations were made. Now the DPS have the same proposal for 120 leva. an addition to that minimum pension, which did not become BGN 482, as the DPS suggested, because Mr. Svilenski did not support the proposal of the DPS, but became BGN 467. My question to you is: how is Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev's attitude towards the poorest and the poor? You might want to remind him, though. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u100	Wait a minute. Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Third line, Mr. Ganev, first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will just start by saying that the proposal of colleagues from DPS is 392,57 BGN. To be BGN 481. And how long was it, right? That's a lot more than 14%. I'm just saying, a lot more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u102	You're not thinking well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u103	No, no, I don't think bad. 90 over 390 what is it? [[DPS lines.]] From 390 to 481. Your proposal is the number 392,57 BGN. replace with the number 481 whole and something. This is an increase of more than 14%. But my questions to Mr. Ademov are two. The first question, your proposal includes 120 BGN. an addition to those pensioners whose pension is below the poverty line. The line of poverty for 2022 is BGN 413, this means that if someone receives BGN 412, they will automatically receive BGN 532, and if someone receives BGN 414, what is my question? And my second question is this 532 leva. How long will they be guaranteed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. A hole, Mr. Ademov. And then a personal explanation, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Thank you for your lines, fellow Members. Back and forth, so I don't forget the check. Mr. Ganev, listen up. If this is how you teach your students, they will have problems from now on in life. Now, look...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u106	Depends on who's testing them. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u107	Three hundred and seventy leva is now the minimum pension for insurance service and age of 370 and not 390, as you said. Times 14% is 51.80 BGN. Adding to BGN 370. 51,80 leva. and add 60 leva to them. They're exactly BGN 480.80. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo" by DPS.]] Please don't blame me in the accounts. Not only am I, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are more aware of accounts than you are. [[Noise and lines.]] Next. With regard to the minimum pension for internship and age and the line of poverty - BGN 413 All pensions under BGN 413, we propose to be increased by the end of the year, by the end of this year by BGN 120. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo" by DPS.]] We never said that after New Year's Eve she'd be gone or gone. We believe that the outgoing ruling majority does not have the legitimacy to propose such types of solutions. These are serious decisions, and you have proved that you cannot face serious challenges. Regarding whether this supplement of 120 BGN. is acceptable or not acceptable. It's very interesting what happened before New Year's. The Minister of Finance then supported the 120 leva. Now, instead of supporting the same amount again, sends the poor, should I say where? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] I'm not gonna say it. [[Noise and shouts from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] I'm not gonna say this because I'm a little more polite than the Minister of Finance. So let's be careful when we speak from this tribune and when we speak nonsense, let's not be ashamed of them afterwards. Mr. Svilensky, we will support even this proposal, which brings back some justice, some justice. But I say: You promise over the years recalculating pensions. Recalculation is an instrument with an up-to-date insurance income. Modernization is a whole other thing under the Swiss rule. Indexation is a completely different tool of social security. But that requires a lecture in other conditions. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. For a personal explanation, Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Karadayi, a personal explanation of your speech. Because you said what Georgi Svilenski voted for, but not only Georgi Svilenski, but also the majority. And we didn't vote minimum wage to be BGN 480 because what the DPS offers, let's be clear, Mr. Ademov explained it. Now I'm going to say it myself, so that the viewers can understand it, so that they don't get fooled, because you know very well what's going on, but you explain it in a complicated way. Right now, BGN 370. is the minimum pension. You offer 14%, it becomes BGN 421. And so far, it stops the update.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u110	Mr. Vigenin, read it to him, otherwise it'll be in the way...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u111	And you suggest... Nothing. He'll read it later. And then you offer 60 leva. by the end of the year and become BGN 487. Until the end of the year. What the government and the majority propose is a minimum pension of 467 BGN. And after the end of the year, at least. By the end and after the end of 2022 and 2023, it shall grow and not return. So it should be clear exactly what you are proposing. I understand that's how you want to put it, but that's not how you do it. There's the minister behind me. He's confirming what I'm saying right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u112	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u113	This debate probably should have led him to the Commission. What will become clear to the Bulgarian pensioners is that Georgi Svilenski, the parliamentary group of BSP and the majority has accepted BGN 467. a minimum pension, not what you are offering. - BGN 421. minimum pension. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u114	Mr. Karadaye, perhaps for a statement, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u115	No, no, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u116	If it's about the point... It's not a personal explanation, please. If you're going to speak to explain what you're proposing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u117	What was that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u118	Mr. Karadaye, you accused him of not voting for something and he came out to explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u119	He didn't vote for £482.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u120	Yeah, but he didn't vote against it. You said he voted against. Please wait now. I don't give you my word, Mr. Karadayi. If you'd like to make a statement. No, if it is to explain the proposal, it should be done with a statement, not with procedural questions. Is that okay? All right, for your statement, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u121	Thank you. Whatever form, Mr. Vigenin, which you will choose after the violation of the Rules with the previous personal explanation, yet the responsibility remains with you. And that's why I asked for the word in the manner of conduct, because when someone stands on the stand to lie, you, Mr. Chairman, should at least make a slight remark to them, not accuse anyone else of lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u122	Now get to the point, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u123	You most likely have the proposals and the Commission's report for second reading in front of you. In the Report of the Commission for Second Reading, what was in my reply and in the speech of Mr. Ademov, and here, as I see the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, wrote BGN 481,80. [[Applause from DPS]] Not what Mr. Svilensky speaks here from this tribune and says that Mr. Ademov or Mr. Karadayi lied and spoke some numbers like bingo hall. Read the Commission report! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Is there a line to these details? Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u125	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadaye, I'm taking a line, although I've taken a line before, we really need to be correct when we make speeches from this tribune. Yes, indeed the proposal recorded BGN 481,80, but the question is, you said yourself and Dr. Ademov said: BGN 370. plus 14% " 421 lv. plus 60 leva. add-on by the end of the year - BGN 481 But it's not a minimum pension. It's an extra pension. The other thing I want to say. You've just replicated me that we're currently making an update by the end of the year of the budget. But at the end of the day, the proposal made by the Council of Ministers and the importer, I repeat, is about recalculating pensions or updating, as you would like to call it, from October 1st for all pensions. This is about this size. And a few words I would like to say about the poverty threshold you are talking about. Your proposal that all who receive a pension that is below the poverty threshold - BGN 413, for example, if they receive a pension of BGN 410. by the end of the year they have the right to receive a supplement of 120 BGN. And those who receive a pension above the poverty threshold, for example BGN 415, should receive BGN 60. Is that fair when pensions differ from BGN 5? One gets 500 and up and the other gets 400 and something? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm glad there was a replica of the procedure in the manner of conduct. I am glad that there was a procedure for a personal explanation of my line to get me into this debate and Mrs. Dimitrova once and for all to be aware that we will not understand each other. We will not agree for one simple reason the current amount of the minimum pension, if it is 370 BGN, with a 10% increase of the minimum pension, which is plus 37 BGN, becomes BGN 407. From there there is a 60 leva supplement, for which Mr. Svilenski voted to become 467 leva. The number and I think I didn't lie and it's right. Mr. Svilensky voted for it. But he did not vote for BGN 481,80, which is as follows: BGN 370. minimum pension plus 14% increase, plus BGN 60 supplement, i.e. the increase is 51.80 BGN. 14%. It's not too complicated, Mrs. Dimitrova. The important thing is not to call us to believe your suggestion, not your own eyes. That's what the report says. If you have a claim to the report, what we see and is true there, contact the Commission, the President of the Commission who wrote the report. But to go out with Svilenski and you, who did not support to increase the minimum pension to BGN 481,80. and explain to us from this tribune that we should not believe our eyes and what we see in the Report, and we should trust your suggestion, I think it is not correct. And that way, there's no way we can work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u128	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Ganev has the floor, then Mr. Arabadzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for a statement because you are probably right in the accusation that I can't count and I'm teaching my students badly, and it doesn't give any reason for a personal explanation. There is one big difference in both approaches. One approach...................................................................................... 10, by the way, in the State Social Security Act for 2022 determines the amount of the minimum pension, it does not determine the amount of the minimum pension plus supplements, it only determines the amount of the minimum pension. Whatever there are supplements is added on top of that. And the proposal of colleagues from DPS is the amount of minimum pension from 1 July 2022 in art. 10 to be recorded from 392,57 to 481,80, on which there will be additives. That's gonna be added to it! I mean, the 60 levs you don't have, and I'm letting you turn them in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u130	Read!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u131	Yeah, I read, I read, that's right. There's a difference in both approaches. But I continue to say what I said in my previous speech: firstly, I did not get an answer to the question of what happened to a pensioner who received BGN 414. Right now. I didn't get an answer to that question. We tell him or her: you've had a lot of money, you've provided 414 leva. To those of 412 we say, you didn't have any money, here some 120 on top of that I understand. So people who have provided less and therefore receive lower pensions suddenly receive 120 leva. bonus, and people who have provided more and respectively have slightly higher pensions with two levs in my example, do not receive a bonus on top just because, you see, the thing called a line of poverty... I don't agree with that approach. At least last year you offered 120 for everyone, at least we didn't have a problem. Secondly, thank you for the answer to the question only until New Year, i.e. all Bulgarian pensioners. And then there's the 60 leva supplements. are for all pensioners the 120s only for those under the poverty line until the New Year. And so we tell these people this: you continue to depend on us. In three months, it will be up to us again whether you continue to receive or will not continue to receive the money in our hands and your income from our MPs. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You will continue to be here. I have absolutely no doubt that you colleagues of the DPS will continue to be here, you tell the voters: it is up to us. It's up to us! And I want us to tell them that it's not up to us and that everything is calculated by formulas and by rules, and we don't play here with people's fates. That's what I'd like to see. Accordingly, I would like to see absolutely... [[Noise and lines.]] And that, Mr. Ademov, is different from changing the Social Security Code for who determines the minimum pension. This is much bigger than that. But to stop here looking at the budget for state social security, never. That's what I want. This thing should not enter the National Assembly at all, as the National Assembly does not include the budget of BNB. Believe me, the BNB has a budget every year, but you and I don't know about this job. I want the same for the NOI. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For a line, Mr. Karadaye? Here you go. And I'm already confused about what we calculated. We've gone a little far from the specific paragraphs, but I hope it's clear about those looking at us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I have to contribute to your confusion, because you wouldn't be confused if you were reading the Commission report. But when you listen to what Mr. Ganev is trying to suggest, you can't help but get confused and you will get confused because his goal is to confuse Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian pensioners. Because if you were right in your claim about what the DPS offered for 481,80 leva, which Mr. Ganev did not support, but the model, as he spoke about models, the model for 467 leva, which we supported with Mr. Ganev what is the difference in the model? There's no difference in the pattern, there's a difference in parameters. In one version of the same model is a 10% increase in the minimum pension, in the other version is a 14% increase in the minimum pension, but the model is the same, only the parameter is different. As long as 120 leva. Adding to the pensions of the poorest we do not have the attitude of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev as an attitude towards the poor...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u134	Well, let's be precise, Mr. Karadaye!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u135	He from this tribune said his attitude towards the poor...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u136	No, he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u137	...but we offer... Mr. Vigenin, when someone doesn't understand and you get confused, you read the reports...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u138	You're gonna tell me someone's lying and I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u139	...that's where it says. That's why we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in 2021 when we offered 120 BGN. A kind of measure supplement to pensions, in this room people like Mr. Ganev and other people were saying: a, it's a problem, impossible, difficult, and unfortunately, is up to the end of the year as well as at the moment. Inflation measure.. speak the managers, speak also from BSP what social measures there should be. And DPS offers 120 leva. measures add to the pension of the poor and Mr. Ganev goes out and says: unfortunately it is until the end of the year. But Mr. Ganev should also be reminded that the budget is not for a fifth, Mr. Ganev, the budget is from year to year and therefore the measure is until the end of the year. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u140	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Is there any other line to Mr. Ganev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Gechev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Ganev, you mentioned, but did not clarify something very important with greater focus, and it is this: that the increase of 120 BGN. to the lowest pensions means an end to the justice of the pension system, as the minimum pension will equalize to the average pension and there is no point in putting more into the social system because you will get the same. And second of all, you didn't make it clear... I will not use any names because there is propaganda here before the elections, but honourable Members, to think about it in all parties we have different representatives of the Bulgarian society, but it will be so that a party, where due to the right compromises, they are not compromises, but advantages that were given in the Law, to the people of all parties who worked in agriculture, they had exceptionally lower social contributions, right? And now some people want us all to pay a certain electorate and raise his minimum pension to the middle. Well, have a nice day. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Third line, Mr. Arabadzhiev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ganev, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the correct accounts you have made and to thank you, because as your student, I believe that you have helped me so that I can reach this level right now. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And in essence, I think that you have very well felt where the truth is and where is the difference between the proposal of the Council of Ministers and that of the DPS. The Council of Ministers proposes inclusion of supplements in the amount of pensions and a lasting increase in the future so that these people do not depend on the political decisions of certain political groups. And another thing, these people with the lowest pensions are largely also residents in the poorest regions of the country. So step by step we take their independence and we make them free with a lasting increase in income. In my subsequent speech, I will give specific examples of exactly how the average size of the pension is increasing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u144	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my asshole I will address questions that continue to elude me, namely: what is going on with this pensioner who is currently receiving BGN 414. Come on, whoever gets 412 levs will get 532, right, on your offer? What happened to those 414? That's my question. Secondly, I understand that the supplement refers not only to retirement pensions and age. Am I to understand correctly that it also applies to other pensions, some of which may be significantly lower. I get that, too. But I keep insisting that taking temporary supplements... Yes, the argument is year-to-year, is an argument, it is. Budgets are year-to-year! But I have a problem with these people's budgets depending on us. That's also a problem. Agree, it's a problem! I wonder how we can get out of this problem? And my answer is: yes, the budget is always year to year, it is always budgeted for some period of time, regardless of what system and what unit we are talking about. My idea is to get this out of the hands of the National Assembly, not be there simply. Another way to determine this budget year for year, if possible, by formulas, because the insurance system has very clear ratios inside. It's about the other questions. Obviously I understand the only way your calculations and my calculations match is if you incorporate the minimum pension add-on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u146	You voted!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u147	I mean, your proposal was before we voted anything. For art. 10 sets the minimum amount of the pension, it does not fix the minimum amount of the pension plus the supplement, it only determines the minimum amount of the pension. And if we here assume there are supplements, they're on top of that. Accordingly... [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Well, it always is. Supplements are additives to something and this thing is defined in art. 10. You can't if it's not added to the thing in art. 10, a supplement that I agree with. You're also incorporating the 60 levs. inside the minimum pension. Okay, I get it. You convinced me. Thank you for that, and thank you for your clarification. But I still don't know what's going on with the people at BGN 414. plus. If the minimum pension amount of BGN 481,80 goes, then there should not be any pensioner retired for retirement and age below the poverty line. So we're only talking £120. for some other people whose pensions, as Professor Gechev quite rightly pointed out, were not formed on the basis of their social contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. [[National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski wants the floor.]] Just a moment, Mr. Karimansky. First Mr. Karadaye wanted... And he's on procedure if you want us to run out of his, or...? Let me just ask you before I give you the floor, Mr. Karimansky, we're getting a little off the hook, there's been a little debate at first reading. Let's focus on the paragraphs we have to vote on in a moment. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following this debate very carefully, I am proposing that it be terminated because it is pointless, I think, from here on out and let's move on to a vote. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u150	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] To give the way of conduct first, then we'll vote and give Mr. Arabadzhiev the word because he asked for it and I announced it before then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gechev, and after him Mr. Ganev tried to talk here that with the changes in the Pension Act we are taking care of a specific electorate of a particular party. They meant the DPS, which I thank them for indefinitely. And I appeal to all Bulgarian pensioners to hear very accurately and correctly the words of Mr. Gechev and Mr. Ganev, because they should, according to their understanding, be the only and only elector of the DPS and call them to vote for DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u152	Now this is pre-election propaganda is not to me in the way of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u153	Mr. President, you should have reminded them that the votes of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the last elections are 341 thousand, and all pensions, if we do not take into account the pensions supplements, all pensioners who are below the poverty line, are 782 thousand! [[Applause from DPS.]] And we expect by their definition and their definitions in the next election to have at least 382 thousand votes! That's the suggestion they're trying to make from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u154	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u155	As far as Mr. Chairman, I address you, Mr. Gechev and Mr. Ganev do not understand that 120 leva. an addition to pensions is a social measure of the state to pensioners, to vulnerable groups, as was 2021, the measure, so now the proposal is an inflation measure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u156	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. That's enough. You're making a statement now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u157	In this galloping inflation, the DPS offers 120 BGN. addition to pensions as a social measure! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u158	We get it. I urge you to return to the procedures as they are. There can't be a systematic dialogue here and Mr. Karadayi is abusing procedures to make propaganda. Please. [[(Reply by National Representative Mustafa Karadaye: I am going out.]] I would be grateful not to abuse these procedures again. Before that, however, I must put to the vote, Mr. Gechev, Mr. Karimanski's request to end the debates, and I have already announced that if we stop them, I will still give Mr. Arabadzhiev the opportunity to speak. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 174, 26 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I give the floor now to Mr. Arabadjiev, if he still wants to speak. After that personal explanation of Mr. Gechev and we're done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will strive to speak expertly, as I normally do, and to thank you for not allowing the Rules to be abused just now, and you have given Mr Karadayi a speech, as he is no longer entitled to a negative opinion after we have voted. But what I'm saying is wrong is... I don't see Mr. Karadaye, but he used his words...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u160	Don't think he'll take the floor again. Don't mention it, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u161	Okay. I mean, it is right to talk, not about increasing the minimum pension, but to look at the average pension indicator, as this is an indicator of the amount of pension in a country. As of June the amount of the average pension is about 530 BGN. With the increases from July 1st, the average pension is expected to increase to BGN 666. in July, which is up 23% compared to June, if we don't look at the supplements in June. After October, the average pension is expected to reach 718 BGN, or a total of 32.9% increase in the pension by June. We're not talking about any supplements that might drop out at some point. This is a permanent increase in pensions. Another thing that is said is only a third of the pensioners will receive an increase on 1 October. This is so depending on the corresponding characteristic of the formula of each pensioner. And here I want to say about October 1st exactly how it will be, since Dr. Ademov didn't understand. Dr. Ademov, we are really using the insurance income from 2021. If you look at this increase every year, which will be made, takes 100% growth from the insurance income compared to the previous year. And if you see in the Report submitted to the Supervisory Board in the NSI, you can see that the pensions that were granted before 2008 and 2008 will increase by 294% or three times, which is the increase of the insurance income compared to 400 BGN. from 2007 and 1200 leva. from 2021 [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u162	May I have a moment, Mr. Arabadjiev? Colleagues, please, a little quieter. I understand that perhaps many of you are not retired yet, but a little respect for your colleague! What's this now? You really can't hear it. You two are talking in pairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u163	The technology and mechanism of the increase of October 1st, I would like to say this clearly. The difference is that we take the internship as years and the individual coefficient at the time of the recalculations of September, but at the weight of the internship rate at the date of release. The service coefficient is the substitution coefficient that a pension provides for the insurance income and contribution of the person. There comes the difference for some pensioners that in the last increases we have made, for them the increase of the individual coefficient is more favourable than the last years compared to the growth of the social security income for 2021 and therefore part of the pensioners will not receive this increase. But we are targeting exactly the oldest pensions that have missed this increase over the years because of the malfunctioning Swiss rule of 50% increase in insurance income compared to last year. So that's what I'm saying, we're using the growth of the insurance income and the insurance income from 2021. The average increase in the pensions of the people is BGN 136. For some it will be a few pennies, but for others it will be several hundred leva. These are amounts that in recent years they were supposed to take every month, but they didn't take them. We've been correcting this injustice since October 1st. Thank you. [[Replication by National Representative Hasan Ademov. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u164	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Are there any lines to that statement? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Arabadzhiev, I would like to address you in the context of what we presented as our position that our proposal for 120 BGN. is in the context as an extension of the measure as an anti-crisis measure. Do you know, since March in Greece, how much as aid, as an anti-crisis measure, is given to pensioners, in addition to helping pay the electricity, vulnerable families? Specially to pensioners every month in Greece, the amount of 200 euros can be checked. In neighbouring Romania, pensioners are supported in the same way. What is your vision in this aspect, since we are neighbouring countries? These countries initially have a higher standard than we do, unfortunately? And as a result of the fact that neither the Plan is being activated nor the operational programmes, there is no growth, no matter what we are talking about, which will be reflected in both the social sector and what we are discussing today. So do you have an orientation on what's going on in the neighbouring countries, something we should do here for our pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Arabadzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chakarov, this is exactly what we want to prevent. You're talking about mixing social assistance with a pension system. We are now discussing the budget of state social security, not the Agency for Social Assistance. And we're not rooting for this supplement because it's social assistance. If you want, make an offer to further assist pensioners after a property and income criterion. I therefore sincerely hope that your proposal will not be supported in this House and that you will not mislead the National Assembly as you failed it in the Forty-sixth [[Replication by National Representative Hassan Ademov]] To stop this social assistance through the pension system. So I appeal to support the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u168	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. [[DPS lines.]] Mr. Ademov may be criticizing the Minister now. Mr. Gechev's personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think today we're moving within the limits of good manners, gentlemen, and I respect all my colleagues. Let me say, however, that perhaps because of the tensions Mr. Karadayi took the liberty of describing his party as the focus of speech, I did not mention any party. I would like to stress that we have low income people in all parties. There's more in one, there's less in another. What I said is undeniable, it is a fact that in order to make the pension system European, as it is currently extremely unfair, terribly unfair, we must make sure that people with higher qualifications who make a greater contribution to the Bulgarian economy receive a higher pension, as in the whole world. Whatever we are proposing, fellow Members, the approach of the minimum wage to the average and the depersonalization of the pension system is not a step in the right direction. We need to move in the European direction of pension differentiation and an increase in the overall level of pensions, as we are the country with the lowest gross domestic product per capita and therefore still with the lowest pensions. And it's a common task for all of us to raise the levels of pensions and minimum, and medium, and maximum, not to approach minimal and medium. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u170	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Minister Gokov asked for a short speech. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The last paragraphs we have considered include proposals on the impact on the pension system, which may take place from 1 April and possibly from 1 October. There have been three proposals in the case of the Council of Ministers, the importer, the other of colleagues from GERB and the third of colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There was again a discussion that was hardly related to what was proposed in most of the discussion. I would like to thank colleagues from GERB-SDS group because they presented their arguments and proposal correctly without trying to make any propaganda. I find their proposal logical, expertly prepared, with just another approach from the Council of Ministers. In contrast, the DPS proposal was live propaganda. It's so messed up this proposal that now anyone in this room understands how much minimum pension is offered?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u172	Stop it, Minister Gyokov! I'm not gonna stop myself, Mr. Ademov. I'm just gonna ask you some questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u173	They won't be able to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u174	Did anyone find out what the minimum pension offered by the DPS is? Whether it's BGN 421 or BGN 481,80.? Did you find out anyone in the room? Because I didn't understand. If the offer is BGN 421, I immediately say that BGN 467. is the proposal for a minimum pension of the Council of Ministers. If it's £481,80. DSS's proposal for a minimum pension, I ask on these 481,80 leva. will there be an addition of 60 leva. [[(National Representative Hasan Ademov from the place:]] So you are not offering minimum pension 481,80 BGN, but offering minimum pension 421 BGN. and a 60 leva supplement. to it, which after some time would be exhausted and remains a pension of BGN 420. Another question is Mr. Ganev, I don't know if he can think, but he's a teacher, he probably thinks more than someone who isn't a teacher, I can't think so fast, so I wrote it down here. He asked what happened to a pension of BGN 414. and a pension of BGN 412.? However, I ask: if a pension is calculated at 472 BGN, this person, on whom his pension is calculated according to his contribution of 472 BGN, will take exactly as much according to this methodology proposed by DPS as if it is calculated at 412 BGN, i.e. 532 BGN. You might as well just do it without even thinking about it. The last thing I want to mention, in order to be brief, justice requires you to tell everyone after your proposal what is improving in the pension system? For example, how many pensioners remain under the minimum pension? How much above the maximum pension? What's the average pension for the country? I didn't hear a proposal like that from the DPS. All I heard was a waving of 120 BGN, which is actually 120 BGN. of these BGN 481. The minimum pension you are announcing is BGN 14.80. more than what the Council of Ministers has to offer......................................................................................... a day. That's gotta be clear! So much for the proposal of the Council of Ministers how many pensioners remain under the minimum pension, I said it, I think Mr. Arabadzhiev mentioned it, but I will say it to know that after the two impacts on the pension system under more than 200,000 pensioners will take their real pension, their pension will not be artificially raised until the minimum pension. This is perhaps a large part of the justice we seek in pensions. How long will they stay above the maximum pension? After the two impacts of July 1st and October 1st, they will remain below 1,000 people above the maximum pension. This is also justice in the pension system. What's the average pension? The average pension will become BGN 666. After July 1st and BGN 718. After 1 October. Here are these figures, if they are mentioned after all the speeches on the proposals of the DPS and GERB, I will accept them, and people will also accept them, and they will find out who voted for what and who the lecturer supported. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u175	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I just thought it was clear and I got confused again. We're going to vote now. We are voting first on the unsupported proposals. Then you're gonna tell me how you want us to vote in favour. First under § 9 the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Vote 215 MPs: for 85, against 100, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 10. Vote 220 MPs: 87, Against 99, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on the name of the subdivision, not supported by the Commission, as I said. They voted 223 MPs: for 86, against 110, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs under § 11. Vote 224 MPs: for 87, against 103, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Please re-vote. They voted 223 MPs: 87, against 102, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs also under § 11, also unsupported. They voted 223 MPs: 87, against 107, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to create a new § 12. They voted 221 MPs: for 84, against 111, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Do you think we could vote on everything? I see they're giving me a sign. Mr. Ademov, is there a paragraph you want us to vote separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u176	Paragraph 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u177	Paragraph 12, okay. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 9, 10, the name of the subdivision and § 11. Vote 209 MPs: for 208, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The last vote on § 12. Vote 221 MPs: 220 against 1, no abstentions. Negative vote, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u178	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against because in a country governed by reason, poverty and misery are shameful. The challenges facing poverty are not the redistribution that you very much love, but the creation where you are not at all. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Literally a thank you from the Minister would like to express to you the welcome, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for adopting the state social security budget. Whether it is fair, whether it will be approved by the Bulgarians, whether it will be approved by our society, is another issue, the point is that we did what depends on us to get people in times of crisis their pensions increased. I would like to thank my colleagues at the National Insurance Institute who are back here and will make absolutely every effort to be able to calculate the increase in pensions so that people can receive them at the usual time. Everything depends from now on what deadlines the decision will be published in the Official Journal and on their efforts, but they will do everything possible to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Honourable Members, we are moving to item two of today's agenda, namely: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. For Mr. Karimansky's procedure. [[Noise. Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]] Colleagues, please remain in the Chamber, there may be a vote of admission. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the following persons should be admitted to the Chamber: Assoc. Prof. Vasil Pandov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of NHIF, and Dr. Yordanka Penkova, Governor of NHIF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u183	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Please vote on Mr. Karimansky's procedure. Vote 119 MPs: 116 against 2, abstention 1. I ask the Quaestors to invite to this House the persons to whom admission has been voted. Honourable Members, a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance has been received. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-202-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022 and adopted in the first vote on 15 June 2022. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: the Law amending the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. Under § 1, a proposal was received by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, No 47 254 04 197: "C § 1 in the table referred to in art. 1, para. The following amendments shall be made: - in row 1.1.1 "Personal costs' in column 3, the number is amended by - in row 1.3 "Reserv, including for unforeseen and urgent costs', in column 3, the number is amended by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-209: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1.1.4 row "Payments from transfers from the Ministry of Health under para. 1 row 3 for: syphrate 106 570.6 is replaced by the figure 120 570.6. 1.1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1.1.2.8.1 in the text for medical assistance provided in accordance with the rules on the coordination of social security systems, as well as the introduction of vaccines against COV1D-19 for health-insured persons and the words for vaccination against COV1D-19 for health-insured persons are deleted and the figure 120 000,0 is replaced by 106 000,0. 1.2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1.1.4.4. of row..Acts in relation to treatment of persons up to the age of 18 under art. 82, para. 1a, 3 and 6 of the Health Act and of persons over 18 years of age under art. 82, para. 1a and 6 of the Health Act The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, No 47-254-04-214: We propose that the NHIF Reserve provide BGN 2 000 000. for health insurance payments for the medical profession. In view of this, we offer in the table under art. 1, para. 2 of the Bill in Section II. After point 1.3. A new point 1.3.1 should be added to the table, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, as follows: the entry in column is replaced by the following: 1.3.1.; In column "Instructions' the text is to be inserted: "Instructions', including for health insurance payments for medical devices, the total prosthesis; In column "Summa' (in thousand) (BGN) The text is to be inserted:.2 000,0 The Commission does not support the proposal. The next proposal is supported by the Commission and we move on to: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become the only paragraph. I'm the only one. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in the text before the table, the number (b) the table is amended as follows: Next is the table. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before the table, the number (b) the table is amended as follows: Next is the table. The next proposal has been withdrawn, i.e. proposal No 47-254-00 has been withdrawn by the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u185	Just read the signature. Have you read the signature, Mr. Karimansky?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u186	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u187	Did you read the signature, the number?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u188	Yes, I will read the signature again so that it is clear: No 47-254 And then we're done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u189	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on the name and paragraph alone. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u190	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to our proposal, No 47-254-04-197, by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs for a change in § 1 in the table under art. 1, para. 2 I would like to ask the Members of the National Assembly to vote in favour of our proposal because we believe that the staff of the Health Insurance Fund needs this increase. Given the inflation processes in the country, given that they have not received an increase in wages in years, also bearing in mind that these people from 1 July will also administer aids for people with disabilities, bearing in mind that these people have been on strike recently and wishing to increase their salaries, all these things should be taken into account. We hope that our proposal will be supported, we hope that the people in this system will not be disappointed again, in which they administer over 6 billion budgets related to people's health insurance. In this regard, I would like to make an editorial proposal, an adjustment to introduce: In column 3, the figure is amended by the number of staff costs in column 6 of the table by the total number of staff costs in column 3 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u191	Can you repeat that again, Mr. Georgiev, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u192	I'll give you the edit later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u193	Okay, thank you, go ahead, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u194	In row 1.1.3.8.1. The number in column 3 shall be amended from 120 000,0 to 117 900,0 and shall be amended as follows: I hope that with this editorial amendment, all of us, the MPs, will vote for an increase in the remuneration of the people working in the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u195	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's about justice. When we adopted the National Health Insurance Fund's budget in February, we made a commitment to the employees to vote on an update of their salaries when adopting the budget adjustment in June. Somehow things went under a Surdine and it didn't seem clear what it was about. These people are actually managing 6 billion people. It's 2240 people. Our projected increase, which our colleagues have given, is 10%. This cannot even cover the inflation process, which is 12% so far. All the more so, these colleagues are currently facing a challenge that the support funds are going through them, and the 200 people needed for this case are reduced to 100 people, so this team will also have the problem of supporting funds. There's a very serious shortage of footage. Some of the district offices themselves no longer have any doctor, because there is a very serious difference in the pay of doctors in medical care and doctors who work in the NHIF. I therefore call on you to support the proposal that we have made. Moreover, we do not in any way violate the total amount that will be spent by the NHIF. The amount from which 2 million are deducted for the 10% increase is the vaccines, which the Commission is voting continuously to scrap them, or rather not to scrap them, but to send them to the left and right of the world and will not affect the general budget of the NHIF. In this regard, in order for the manager to have the legal right to make this increase, I suggest that you create a new para in the Transitional and Final Rules. 6 in § 15 The NHIF Governor after 1 July 2022 on criteria which he has developed in cooperation with the management of the trade unions may set a new amount of individual monthly salaries for the staff of the NHIF administration within the framework of the staff costs of the NHIF budget for the year. Once again, I think that this is fair, because these people currently have some of the lowest wages and I owe them... the promise we made to the employees of the NHIF must be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u197	Thank you, Dr. Christov. I've seen the proposals. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. First of all, I will put to the vote proposals which are not supported by the Commission. Mr. Georgiev, do we consider your proposal an editorial proposal of the proposal already made or a separate new editorial proposal, because it concerns one part of the same text? [[Definitions between President Miroslav Ivanov and MP Georgi Georgiev.]] Mr. Georgiev amended Mr. Kostadinov's proposal in the way he read it, and you have the texts in the report. So I won't say it again. We are voting on the proposal by the MP Kostadin Kostadinov with the edit made in the Chamber by Mr. Georgiev, which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. They voted 211 MPs: 107 against 101, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. There's a request for a re-vote, colleagues. Professor Mikhailov wants to motivate him. Here you are, Professor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This proposal does not concern only part of it, it is not editorial by its nature, and I shared this thing with the Presidency that it is not admissible for voting, it completely amends the proposal of the honourable Mr. Kostadinov. If this is how we're going to continue to come up with proposals during the reading of the Bill, it doesn't make any sense then. We will sew them to the proposals of individual MPs and completely crash the entire intervention. I imagine tomorrow what will happen, because I already know how many proposals and what has been made. Please let us be more serious, I asked for this thing, I talked to the other Vice-President, he shared our opinion, it is not acceptable such a proposal, it changes the overall characteristics of the NHIF budget. They have asked if it gets into details, but why bother with the House now, it is a principle issue. I don't mind, but it had to be done differently. Now that is not possible in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] It's absolutely not possible... [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Mr. Karimansky, I don't want to argue about this. Yesterday you had one understanding, and today suddenly your other understanding arises in the Chamber. You are the President of the Commission and you suddenly decide that you have another understanding. This is also not correct to the Commission, I am sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-28.u199	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Please, re-election mode. Vote 224 MPs: 114, against 102, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, which has a number ending in 209, which is not supported by the Budget and Finance Committee. Ivo Hristov's proposal is completely identical with a correction that we made in relation to Mr. Georgiev's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] The texts are exactly the same as they were given to me. I'm sorry if there was anything else you had in mind. [[Noise and lines.]] Anyone who wants to meet him can. Alinea six is unacceptable and it is not an editorial amendment and I will not allow it to be voted on. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the proposal of Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs ending 209, which is not supported by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 220 MPs: 112 against 107 abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Revoting, coworkers! Please, voting mode. Vote 226 MPs: 114 against 99, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 225 MPs: 96 against 114 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. Vote 223 MPs: 97 against 111 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I shall put to the vote the name of the bill, together with § 1 in the version of the Commission and with the editorial proposals already adopted. Vote 226 MPs: for 226 MPs, against and abstention there is no. The Second Voting Bill has also been adopted. Honourable Members, the next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held tomorrow, June 29th, at 9.00 p.m. on an additional announced agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
