ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please register. Today they are online: Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u3	And Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u5	Thank you. 183 MPs in the hall and 2 online " 185" total. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u6	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u7	Let's hear the procedure first. Three people have already told me about the declaration. Please come in for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. It is time to make a new sense in the words of the People's Representative he must represent the entire Bulgarian people. End quote. These are words spoken by the country's prime minister from this tribune, Mr. Chairman. In this regard, I am convinced that he had in mind not only the national representation, he also had in mind you as President of the National Assembly and as the first among the equal person who should set an example by observing the Constitution, following the laws, following the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 90, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 Reg. 91, para. 1 of the Constitution and in relation to art. Art. 111, Art. 138 last year, on 15 December, Mr. Mustafa Karadaye, the President of the Parliamentary Group of.. Mr. Mustafa Karadaye asked a question, Mr. Chairman, through you to the Minister of Interior about the pressure and repression of Bulgarian citizens during the election campaign and during the election day on 11 July and 14 November. In this regard, we never received an answer. There is a reply published on the website of the National Assembly, and writes: For us, for whom we say this, this is correspondence between you and the Minister of the Interior. So, our request is, first of all, to change the status Secondly, on February 10th last week, from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we re-entered through you only 45 questions to the Interior Minister, which have been returned again. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Of these 45 questions 6 concern the particular region of Burgas. One of the victims is up here on the balcony. He asks me the question: answer me on what grounds I was summoned to the police three times during the election campaign and a candidate for the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u9	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u10	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. The year is 2022, but it feels like 1989, when it ruled the totalitarian regime, when they didn't recognize both laws and rules. [[Applause from DPS]] That's our answer. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u11	And thank you, Mr. Ali. The status of Boyko Rashkov's response is correct, there is no reason to change it. We're moving on to the manifests. Consequences for declarations gave me a sign Vasil Stefanov, Plamen Nikolov and Veska Nencheva. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u12	No, it's not funny, guys, it's really the sequence. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u13	On this day 149 years ago, Bulgaria lost its hero Vasil Levski. He was hanged on 18 February 1873 in the then outskirts of Sofia and was previously captured near the Kakrin Inn. Vasil Ivanov Kunchev is an ideologist and organizer of the Bulgarian National Revolution, founder of the internal revolutionary organization and co-founder of the Bulgarian Revolutionary Central Committee, whose greatest goal is for Bulgaria to become a free and independent state. A year before his death, he wrote to one of the revolutionary committees: "Nearly is the time already "The Bulgarian will not be a slave, but a free one. Today the Bulgarians want to be free and independent and to live a decent life in a normal society without corruption, without local feudals and without fear. The great Bulgarian revolutionary does not wait for the Liberation, but it comes only five years after his death. In the end, he succeeds the case has been brought to an end. On today's day, when we remember the heroism of one of the most revered figures in Bulgarian history, let us also remember his words: Our goal in Bulgarian is a brotherhood with everyone, without looking at faith and nationality. We give our hand to anyone who wishes to shed blood with us together for life and freedom human. It's all in our collective power. Against them can not resist the strongest force. So many years later these words continued to echo and serve as a guiding light to point the way in front of the country and its already free people. Let us follow Vasil Levski's instructions to be united and make wise decisions together in the name of proud Bulgaria! Trials, hardships and threats ahead of us are few. But the memory of the Apostle's shining example, the thought of his feat and sacrifice make our way lighter, and the goal is clearer... independent, united and just Bulgaria! Bow to Vasil Levski's memory! [[(Applause from..We continue the Change, DPS, BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Plamen Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a declaration on behalf of the political party parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! We are on the eve of the 149th anniversary of the Apostle of Liberty Vasil Levski's death. Whatever is said about the apostle's work and life, it will still sound insufficient and more than modest. To this day, we, as his heirs, have not fully grasped the fact of the appearance of a person among us with such vital and idea power. To this day, we never cease to be astonished at his organizing talent, courage, dedication to the work and sacrifice in the name of the Fatherland. Vasil Levski is a global phenomenon that will remain as an emblematic example not only in our national pantheon of heroes, but also in the world treasury of immortality. Deacon is a universal symbol of how the whole essence of a human being can be subjugated to an idea of freedom. The Apostle of Freedom is that historical person whose presence in the story of Bulgarian statehood has always served as an example of unity and selflessness, along with his covenant for the Clean and Holy Republic. Let us never forget the apostle's feat these days, and let us always remember that we are as a people because of his sacrifice! May the memory and ideas of our brightest national hero remain! Thank you. [[(Applause from..We continue the Change, DPS, BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u16	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u17	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, on today's day "February 18th, 149 years ago the Apostle of Bulgarian Freedom Vasil Levski, the most prominent son of Karlovo, the most prominent son of Bulgaria, finished his earthly journey. Almost a century and a half separate us from that chilly morning, when, by the gallows after the short confession before pop Todor, the Apostle said calmly: "Everything I have done, I have done for the Fatherland. " Vasil Levski is the only person in Bulgarian history that the people call the Apostle of Bulgarian freedom. The reason for this should be sought primarily in his actions and in his ideas. Perhaps most precisely the essence of his work and ideology is formulated by him himself in his letter to Anastas Pophinov: I have dedicated myself to my Fatherland since 61rd summer to serve him to death and to work according to the will of the people. The qualities of Vasil Levski recognized even then the representatives of the Ottoman authorities. The extraordinary investigative committee, which includes lawyers who received education in Paris, senior dignitaries of the state imperial machine, identified him as known for their bravery, competent and central personality, chairman of all committee organizations. Hardly any of the then Sofians who attended this tragic event, even less the peasants who came to the market, had an idea of how much the Bulgarians lost on that day. The monument of the Apostle, near the place of the gallows, in the center of the capital of liberated Bulgaria, should be completed only in 1895, to reach the most Bulgarians written by Zahari Stoyanov, Stoyan Zaimov, Ivan Vazov, Hristo Botev, in order to build that image of Vasil Levski, which generations of Bulgarians honor as a national hero. Today we have the privilege from the distance of a century and a half to have the unambiguous assessments of the scientists about the activity and role of the Apostle in the Bulgarian national liberation movement. Its genius creation is the most reliable way to solve the Bulgarian issue. By taking over the most progressive productions of the 19th century's European democratic and revolutionary thought, the greatest personalities of the new time, Levski is building a revolutionary organization with only one goal: to replace the current Despot-Taran system with the Democratic Republic of the People's Government. Today we still have the responsibility, although a century and a half after its great doom, to do our best and realize his ideas for the functioning of this democratic republic, which he longed for and for which he dedicated his life. This Democratic Republic, which he saw in his visions as a temple of truth and freedom, in which all will live equally, regardless of nationality and religion, which recognize and recognize, observe its laws. To believe at last, as the Apostle stated, that being equal to other European peoples depends on our own united forces. Let's try to tell each other the curves so we can fix each other and move forward together. We'd love to love the one who shows us the mistake, or he's not our friend. Let's not look at it in words, but at work. Time and events have shown that Vasil Levski does not belong only to the past, to history, belongs not only to the Bulgarians, because its values are universal, humane, democratic. He has been and is now a contemporary of many generations, who in the worst times seek support in his words, in his ideas. And today they must be before us, and everyone can say, "All that I have done, I have done for the Fatherland." There should be no more excuses or forgivenesss if we want Bulgaria to finally become this free, independent, democratic country in which the Bulgarians to live well, as Bulgaria wanted the Apostle to see. Thank you. [[(Applause from..We continue the Change, DPS, BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u18	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! It is very good that there were declarations from the parliamentary groups, but I think, Mr President, it was your commitment to have a joint declaration from the National Assembly. We all swear that we are united behind the Apostle and that's the way we speak. But I think it would be much stronger, much pό Bulgarian, very pό true, if there was a declaration of the entire National Assembly at least for the Apostle of Freedom of Bulgaria. I hope that next time we will be united in this declaration. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Bikov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On today perhaps the first thing we should say is that Levski cannot be a declaration. Levski can be an action, it can be a dynamic, it can be a reflection, it can also be a burden that we are not always ready to carry. Levski's alive because he didn't freeze static in the time he lived in. To this day it is one of the main lines and one of the main centers of the Bulgarian national identity. As long as the Bulgarian national identity exists, Levski will be a living and dynamic image that will live in the Bulgarian soul. Levski cannot be merely words of admiration and respect for Levski poses very difficult and complex questions, some of which still do not have an answer. Such a question is the word "narode" with four question questions, which we are still trying to answer, and we are not always able to answer. He raises the question of betrayal, he raises the question of how much we have the strength to bear the cross of our national freedom, and not only the national cross of freedom, the cross of being Bulgarians. Because freedom does not mean just being free, freedom is not a right, freedom is an obligation, and we are not always at the height of this obligation, not only as a political elite, but also as a society. Levski is a civilization choice. He is not just a figure that fights for the creation of the Bulgarian state. This is a figure that fights for Bulgaria to be part of the European peoples at a time when Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people are not part of the European peoples. Civilization choices are trauma, and this injury is paid for on the gallows sometimes! And here comes the next question: are we ready to pay the price for our civilisational choice, as they have done not only Levski but also a huge part of the Bulgarian national liberation activists? Levski asks the question: what happens to those who are willing to pay this price? The relatives of Levski, his brothers and sisters, his mother, after the Liberation of Bulgaria die in misery, abandoned and forgotten, just as most of the descendants of those who are built into the Bulgarian national pantheon today! We should also remember this because today there are also people who have paid the price for their civilization choice, but are forgotten and absent from the Bulgarian national memory! Vassil Levski is an opportunity to have a national memory, and that is up to us! I hope we do not remember Levski only on the dates 19 February and 18 July, when the protocol is stronger than the figure and its significance! Levski must be alive every day, not with words, but with our deeds! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. We move on to the only item on our agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL Before that, two messages: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an airplane to the Federal Republic of Germany and back by crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 16 February 2022, with entry No 47-203-09-14, and was made available to the Defence Committee. Information on gross domestic product received from the National Statistical Institute in the fourth quarter of 2021 Express assessments and main results of the monitoring of the labour force in the fourth quarter of 2021 is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 11 to 17 February 2022 from: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Valeri Lachovski; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Asena Serbenova to a question from the MPs Adlen Shevked, Hayri Sadakov, Elhan Kalkov and Mumun Mumun; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev; to a question from the National Representative Iskra Mihailova; to 4 questions from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov; to 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on 10 questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Bozidar Bojanov on 8 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; on two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; on a question from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov on a question from the National Representative Gergana Daneva; on a question from the MP Zornitsa Stratieva and Vladislav Panev; on two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Iskra Mihailova; on a question from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov; on 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Georgi Gokov on 9 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov to a question from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev; to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Nankov; to 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from the National Representative Nikola Dimitrov; to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov; - Minister Daniel Lorre on 7 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Ivan Ivanov of two questions by the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; of a question by the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; of 10 questions by the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; of a question by the National Representative Daniel Petrov; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov; on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; on six questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on 10 questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova to a question from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev; 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov; on a question from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov; on 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Maya Dimitrova; 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Nikolay Sabev on a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on 10 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Stefan Yanev on a request from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev; on a question from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; on 5 issues from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - Minister Hristo Prodanov on 7 questions from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova. We are moving on to the questions of Asen Vassilev. Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance. The first question is from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov on attitude towards the Institute of the Financial Ombudsman. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, to present your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u23	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Vassilev, anywhere during an election campaign or after it, you did not comment on the lack of a financial ombudsman. Currently your coalition partner Mrs. Ninova is preparing a Law on the activities of collectors companies. I do not know where in the European Union there is a Law on Collector Companies, but I know for a fact that we are the only country in the European Union that has not yet entered the figure of the financial ombudsman. Since I do not see your speech anywhere on this subject, I ask this question and I want to understand: what are your views on the lack of a financial ombudsman? Do you work to fill out this pass? How do you see the functioning of such an institution in Bulgaria? What basic principles should it be subject to if you intend to work in this direction? How can we inform ourselves of your actions in this regard? I'm waiting for the answer to the question now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kostadinov, the financial ombudsman is one of the procedures for alternative settlement of disputes between countries. Bulgaria has adopted a collective scheme with the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act in 2015, transposing the requirement of Directive 83 of the European Union of 2011. As regards consumer rights, the possibility of establishing common and sectoral conciliation committees for resolving consumer disputes is envisaged. This has been done to the Commission for Consumer Protection. In the field of financial services, three conciliation committees have been formulated which consumers can use: - Sectoral conciliation committee to deal with disputes in the field of financial services, including the provision of distance financial services related to the provision of consumer and mortgage loans; - Sectoral conciliation committee to deal with disputes in the field of insurance and insurance mediation, including the provision of distance financial services in these sectors; - Sectoral conciliation committee to deal with disputes in the area of supplementary social security of ancillary mediation activities, including the provision of distance financial services in these sectors, and - Sectoral conciliation committee to deal with disputes in the field of activities and services under art. 5, para. 2 and 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act and of the activities and services under art. 86, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment undertakings. The referral of sectoral committees shall be made by submitting an application in writing to the Commission for Consumer Protection, and the application and accompanying documents may be submitted by e-mail or online via the website. The conciliation proceedings shall facilitate the settlement of disputes between consumers and traders by means of a conciliation proposal for the Parties, which, once approved by them, shall have the power of agreement. Reconciliation is free of charge for consumers. This is what we have at the moment, and as I said, this is a collective body, not a specific person ombudsman, this is the scheme Bulgaria has chosen. If this scheme works well, I think that an inquiry to the Commission for Consumer Protection would respond better and this is in Mrs Nino's portfolio, in general the financial ombudsman and the resolution of disputes between consumers and financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Would you like a line, Mr. Kostadinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vasilev, I know these things that you said, I know them very well. The question was, what is your view? Since I stressed, for a reason, that at the moment in the European Union, we are the only country without such an institution, given that in our country, when the European directive is said, it is as if the Ten Commandments are called, and I am very interested in how, somehow, for years now, this institution has not been introduced, which I believe has its good practices in other European countries. In view of the fact that the Commission for Consumer Protection is very critical of its activities related to trade disputes and similar conciliation committees, disagreements and so on, I believe that it should be acted in this direction in order to ultimately provide an additional guarantee for the protection of the financial rights of Bulgarian citizens, who I believe are suffering quite serious violations and violations in recent years for a number of reasons. For this reason, I did not hear the specific answer to the question that was.. Do you intend to act in this direction or do you think that what you have mentioned in view of this form, adopted by us as a State for the collective institution in the Commission for Consumer Protection, is doing this work effectively enough? If so, do you think that we can then tell our European partners that there is no point in them having better institutions, since we here also have European experience as far as Bulgaria is a Member State of the European Union, and what is happening in our country is also a European practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Vassilev, or not? At your discretion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u29	Mr. Kostadinov, I think I have made it clear that the institution of the financial ombudsman is currently being implemented by the Commission for Consumer Protection and Sectoral Sub-Committees. If we believe that this work is ineffective and you have such views, we are open to sit down and see how this work can become more effective. However, moving from a place that is currently called the Consumer Protection Commission and going to another place called the Financial Ombudsman will in no way guarantee better work to the relevant authorities. And the other thing is that it is very clear in the directive that the body can be a single ombudsman or collective body, as we do the Commission, and we are not the only country that uses the collective body. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. The next question is from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev, come on in, about commitments that the Bulgarian government will take with the Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability regarding the future of the complex.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The topic "Maritsa East" is one of the most important and most complex not only in terms of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, but in general about the system of Bulgarian energy. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am convinced that you have entered deep enough into this subject, you are sufficiently committed and not only as an importer of the Plan, in charge of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. As early as 2014, I remember you were Minister of Economy and Energy, and you should be very aware of the fact that you realize that at least 15 years can't be done without the Maritsa-East, both with regard to the balance of the energy system, and 15 years should be needed to ensure the smoothness of the socio-economic transition, to reach the maturity of technological storage solutions for energy from renewable and energy sources, to invest in finite technologies. Last week there was a discussion on the part of the Plane, there was some, but not enough clarity, and in this regard I have specific questions. What commitments will you bet on the latest Plan project? Is it still your intention to make a commitment to the construction of a waste incineration plant on the territory of the Maritsa East? Have you studied academics' proposals for intermediate and final technological solutions to implement the transition to decarbonisation? Do you have the model, something that the trade unions have also asked you about with clear, clear technological solutions and deadlines on which you bet both on transitional and finite technologies? What are these batteries going to be, are they going to be, are they going to be, like, other batteries? Why will batteries that are more suitable for cars and phones be used for system energy storage? Have the opportunities for AVETEC, for example, been studied? The expansion of Pavetsa to Yadenitsa is worth 200 million. BGN, and you bet a billion and a half for batteries that will be used 1500 cycles, or at least so many estimates that some batteries can be used, that is to say, a maximum of 2 years we will spend seven years more money? Have you studied hydrogen, ammonia technology as an alternative? Will you invest in carbon dioxide capture and utilization plants? This outside the Plan perhaps because I know that the European Commission does not allow, and most importantly we have been awarded more than a year of research, analysis, a report of the best scientists in the field, led by specialists from the Technical University of Sofia. If you call them, if you examine this report and I dare say that this is the most complete, most justified, the most profound, including a valuable solution we have so far, and it is an alternative to improvisation of the family we will be making a garbage burning plant. If you don't like this report, study it, if you don't like it, assign others, but the topic is important enough to improvise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u32	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u33	Thanks for asking, Mr. Valchev. You're absolutely right that the subject is important enough to improvise. I'll start in a row with the questions. Have the possibilities of AVETEC been studied? Yes, the project for the expansion of PAVEC will happen. It cannot happen with the funds from the Recovery Plan, as it does not comply with the The reason the project has not yet started is that what we have found in the Environment sector is such a large number of criminal procedures, including a large amount of unfinished work on specific measures under the Natura.The project is currently blocking the start of the project despite approved funding from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, due to a negative opinion from the Commission that Bulgaria as a country has not done its job in the Environment Programme. The Ministry of Environment and Water together with the Institutes of BAS are working on doing the work and we hope that within this year the project will be unblocked, as well as many other projects. The possibilities for additional power plants outside the expansion of the Tchairas are also considered. The problem is that the project "Greece Arda" was missed when possible, and currently two of the three dams fall into the "Greece Arda" project, so there is no way to build it. As far as I know, NEK is currently preparing and considering opportunities for this part of the stunts that we have to be able to also pass into PAVEC mode after the corresponding reconstruction, as well as for these projects to be valued, but there is no design readiness. Going to your question about the Maritsa East and what we are making as a commitment at the moment is a 40% reduction in the carbon footprint of the complex, which stems from the commitments made in 2019 on the Green transaction and the closure of the plants that do not meet the environmental requirements at the time. This is what Bulgaria takes as a commitment. The commitment to close additional capacity from the complex is not proposed in the current plan. This allows the country to use seasonal capacity loads so that we can pick up the winter peak and significantly reduce the risk of full seasonal capacity loads so that we reduce the risk in winter to remain without base capacities. As you know, the winter peak is about 2,000 megawatts higher than the summer peak. As to whether we have considered the report, yes, we have considered the report by scientists. There, the main proposed solutions are related to the capture and utilization of carbon dioxide, which, unfortunately, are inadmissible under the Recovery Plan as a technology for use. As far as battery technology is concerned, the truth is that at the moment, after talks were held, both with partners in the US and with partners in Europe, and with companies, there is very much interest in several different companies for the construction of a battery plant, with batteries with 7500 cycles at the moment. Zinc Air has about 9,000 cycles, and there are also iron batteries that are based on iron and electrolyte, which are about 25,000 cycles, that is, we are talking here about a minimum of 10 to 15 years of use, and then there can be recycling, if we are talking about iron, we are talking about over 20 years of use. Batteries come at prices that are significantly lower than they were two or three years ago. And what we said very clearly during the public discussion is that the idea here is not to buy some batteries, the idea here is to come to Bulgaria batteries plants and we replace local resources with local resources, not to replace local resources with imports. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I'm afraid that you, as in other people, have the wrong impression of this report, or there is some confusion about them, they are two reports, one of them belongs to the University of Mine and Geology, which really focuses on the capture and storage of carbon dioxide, but this one is different from the Technical University. Check again, get acquainted with it, it rather offers hybrid fuel solutions for the transition period, they are subject to the only formula that I think should be worked on for the next 15 years, again I say, at least 15 years, it is to reduce CO2 emissions while preserving the production of coal energy. This happens with technological solutions, this is what other developed countries have done, they have commissioned academics to find these solutions, so we currently have solutions to produce energy from renewable energy sources, but still humanity is looking for the best solutions to store this energy, respectively balancing energy systems. So this is my request.. get acquainted with this report, there is indeed a very thorough study there, and what I do not understand that you will reduce 40% of the carbon footprint, which is good as a commitment, better than the alternative to making steam plants, which means that in every gas crisis we will also have an energy crisis. It is better than the commitment to replace coal plants with gas, but how will it be achieved by seasonal work of workers, by closing a pit or by investing precisely in such transitional technological solutions. This suggests the Technical University report and I still don't know about the battery plant what he's going to do in the Plan then, as long as we're going to attract him. Are we going to bet on this battery factory? Maybe that's my supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u37	Thank you. Mr. Valchev, actually part of the private investors in the area, as you know,..................................... One of these options, you mentioned, uses SRDF to mix with coal, and another option could be from other fuel sources so as to reduce the carbon footprint of two of the quotas. As far as the battery plant is concerned, the idea is, firstly, that we build a very serious capacity of batteries to be deployed at the substations of the ECO, and that is why a resource is provided in the Plan and, separately under the Fair Transition Fund, a resource is provided for the re-qualification of workers from the region so that they can be hired on fair wages in these factories. So there's no reduction in their income. As for the previous experience, unfortunately, the first experience is quite sad because we have seen a number of European countries that have closed off base capacities, relying on wind and in the sun, without having an alternative to what happens when the wind is not there. And that is why the main focus of what Bulgaria is doing in the Plan is extending the ability to store energy, as well as exploring the possibility of base capacities, such as geothermal, so that when we go to green energy, we can make sure that this energy can be used as base power, and not when it becomes negative 15 on Monday at 8 pm, we suddenly find ourselves without enough power. This is also the reason why the structure we set to reduce the carbon footprint is not linked to a commitment to close specific capacities outside those which, of course, do not meet environmental requirements and should have been closed long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. We move on to the third issue, which is from the MP Hristo Gazhev, concerning the new management of the Public Procurement Agency. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is related to the new leadership of the APO. Just to remind you, on 2 February 2022, you appointed Mr. Georgi Nikolov as the new Director of the Public Procurement Agency. In his own press release on the website of the Ministry of Finance, the new director is defined as a person who has more than 15 years of experience in a large international company with a chain of stores in Bulgaria, has been responsible for preparing documents and participating in tender procedures, where he has gained considerable experience in the field of public procurement, which is a wonderful CV for a new CEO of the Public Procurement Agency, obviously a person with experience. Now, it became a little awkward that later that week the company in question, whose employee was until recently the new director, came out with its own press release, from which it became clear that he was the head of the portfolio of the company, which is competent in the acquisition of properties and construction of shops, and that the company in question has never participated in public procurement procedures and is not planning to participate in any. In other words, the new head of the Public Procurement Agency has not actually dealt with public procurement until now, since at least his former employer said so. Without being specifically involved in his personal qualities, as it is not correct, does the new director in question have the qualities and at all the attempts to meet the requirements, as the Public Procurement Agency is quite important and monitors the proper performance of public procurement by all portfolios? And so, looking at the biography, he would rather be a wonderful new director of a future government management agency for the state, for example, because at least in the qualification that was published by his former employer, he does have such qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u40	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u41	Mr. Gadget, you're right. The Public Procurement Agency is a very important control body which, unfortunately, has not done its job in the last 15 years. I'm giving you an example. $14,000. Public procurement last year, the preliminary control unit, which needs to check whether there are discriminatory conditions in the documentation, whether the documents are properly written, whether they favor one or the other firm, consists of a polygraph and a speech of 21 people. You tell me how 21 people check 14,000. Public procurement? The introduction of type contracts I think there is one type contract. There's no type contract for construction, there's no type contract for road construction, there's not even a type contract for buying paper clips. What Mr. Georgi Nikolov has done for so long for this large company that you have said is actually to do exactly that to work with suppliers, to make type contracts and to ensure that there is more than one candidate when offers are given, and to ensure that the purchase of materials and the performance of the work takes place at the lowest prices. And his employer appreciated it extremely high, as you yourself said, worked there for over 10 years, and as we all know, this employer made a pretty big expansion and made pretty good margins in this expansion. It has nothing to do with buying cheap and quality. It doesn't have to be the role of the head of the Public Procurement Agency who checks to see if we're buying quality and cheap. That's exactly what the Agency should be doing. Not doing it is another matter. The agency has to carry out preliminary controls, it has to make type contracts so that everyone can't make up rules and take from the company of their favorite cousin, and it has to make subsequent control of the big orders. As we all know, there are between 200 and 300 contracts in the country every year that account for more than 50% of the public resource, so as to ensure that we buy cheap, quality and that things are then finished and actually done. This is the task I have given Georgi Nikolov, and I think he will do extremely well with it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you go, Mr. Gadget, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I think the new Director will also need to work a little bit on what the functions of the Public Procurement Agency are, who does the follow-up control, who does the jobs and so on. But to compare commercial contracts with contracts that are under the Public Procurement Act and the procedures that are carried out under the Public Procurement Act, believe me, the people who have worked on the so-called public procurement specialists, this is something that has been accumulated with years of experience. At least because this is European legislation here and it is not so easy with directives in the sector. I hope, I sincerely hope that your requests for the new director prove correct. However, as I'm listening, he may still be preparing a few months of analysis until he finds out where his legal powers really are and what he can do. By the way, you say that there are only 21 people in the preliminary control unit, but I do not see any change, nor does the State Budget Act have more funds for the Public Procurement Agency, thus strengthening administrative capacity. Perhaps after an analysis it will remain for the subsequent, for the update June month. But this whole thing could be a waste of time. We will monitor how much the new CEO will improve the quality of the work of the Public Procurement Agency, we hope so, but allow us to have our concerns that rather it will turn out that the new people of the A team may have turned out to be quite on the B team. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u44	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u45	Mr. Gadget, I don't know if it's A team or B team, but they're certainly not gonna sleep through the inhouse procedures and ask for a methodical indication until the Treasury Department tells them they have to release it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. With this we have exhausted the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister of EU funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev. We move on to the issues, it is only one, to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova. The issue is from the MP Georgi Svilenski about Bulgaria's participation in the World Expo 2020 exhibition in Dubai. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, on 3 February 2022 at your emergency briefing you presented scandalous findings regarding a contract concluded with a consortium in 2019 related to Bulgaria's participation in the World Expo 2020 exhibition in Dubai. [[Most of the MPs from GERB-SDS parliamentary group are leaving the plenary.]] You indicated that the Ministry of Economy paid in 2019 and 2021 an advance of 4 million. And 452,000. BGN, although the consortium does not fulfil its commitments in the contract. In this regard, I ask you to provide us with up-to-date information on the award, implementation of the contract and what measures have you taken so far in relation to this treaty, from which the Bulgarian State, as I understand it, has been damaged by another 4 million. And 452,000. lv. from previous management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Svilenski and Dear Bulgarian citizens! One of the promises of the new government is that we will stop the thefts and take responsibility for the guilty. Today I will present to you a classic case of the vicious model against which we have been declaring ourselves for years, as well as examples of arrogance of people who have considered themselves untouchable, but are still considered as such at the moment. I will also present to you the response of the government and the Ministry of Economy and Industry to these people. Specifically on the subject. In 2018, the Council of Ministers decided to participate in the World Expo 2020 exhibition in Dubai. It's a 4 million-dollar grant. 816 thousand. And 300 leva. with VAT. However, a public procurement procedure is being carried out in the Ministry of Economy which company to take over the task and this contract is worth 6 million. And 840,000. lv. In other words, at the start of the procedure, we have one doubt about a breach and an increase with no basis for the amounts of 2 million. Twenty-three thousand. And 700 leva. from the approved. We're moving on. After the public procurement contract was concluded with Consortium DZD "Bulgaria Expo 2020." The following companies are involved in this consortium: Siela Norma, Project Management Advisors, Infinity Travel, DOV Ltd. The contract transferred an advance amount of 78,75% of the agreed amount, i.e. 4 million. And 452,000. lv. with VAT. However, the State received no guarantees against this advance. The collateral that the company gives for this amount is only 50% of it, that is only half of it. It follows that the contractual commitments are not met. The subject of the contract is an overall organization for Bulgaria's participation in the World Exhibition through design, logo, construction works, transport of Bulgarian exhibits, fees and duties, personnel provision, daily program in the pavilion, trade in Bulgarian goods and promotional materials. More than 30 of the commitments described in the contract have not been fulfilled or have been replaced with others. I can give you a few examples. I won't list them all, there won't be time for everything, but it's over 30. With regard to the requirement to provide advertising information materials With regard to the requirement to ensure and distribute food, beverages, guest reception is not met. With regard to the requirement to carry out all activities in the provision of commercial activity... is not fulfilled. There was a list of Bulgarian companies approved by the Ministry to be presented there. Of course, this list has not been respected, these companies have been replaced with others, it is not clear in what principle these others have been chosen. The goods that are exposed there for commercial activity, despite the approved prices by the Ministry of Economy and Industry are increased by 30%, there is no record of where this money went. I can give you some strange examples, interesting ones. For example, a presentation of Bulgarian history is being made and because it is a type of crisis is being done online through the Zoom system. The presentation begins to speak, only that no one in the world and no one outside the room hears it, because the organizers simply haven't paid the Zoom system. Or should the pavilion be made of high-tech green materials, modern, in view of the green economy that awaits us, and it is made of plasterboard and paved with carpet?! And I can give more of these examples. But what's important? Over six inspections have been carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Industry, several reports have been produced. We tried to make correspondence with the firm and request a report on what was done. The correspondence doesn't go. There are no reports. Why? Because for correspondence an address has been submitted to a company that does not participate in the contract, is not a partner in the consortium and is a Greek citizen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Okay. I hope there's a line to continue with the information and most importantly with the decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. I ask the Members of the National Assembly and the members of the Council of Ministers to stick around in time as per the Rules of Procedure, as we have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u51	Of course, Mr. Chairman, you're right that time should be appreciated and respected, but when it comes to stolen $4 million. And 452,000. BGN, Bulgarian citizens need to know and it was interesting Mrs. Ninova to tell the other facts that she had found, but if she did not have enough time, after both minutes she had. Ms. Ninova, my request to you is this folder and these documents that you prepared them, as quickly as possible to reach the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, as what you inform us about 4 million. And 816 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Cohesion Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the In order not to waste any more time, would it be more interesting for you, Mrs. Ninova, to answer what you will do from now on? You've done a background check, you've revealed these things, what's next, because that's what's important. Just so we're clear, it doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u52	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u53	Dear colleagues, it is no accident that I took the liberty of saying arrogant behaviour, because at the moment, the contractor claims that we should pay her another 2 million on top of those four, for which no work has been done. Moreover, here in this folder, I have brought 700 pages of real evidence, reports by verifiers, testimony about what happened there on the spot. I thank Mr. Svilensky for his recommendation, but this report with these 700 pages is now on the desk of prosecutors handling the case. I would also like to announce to the National Assembly something that is happening at the moment and warn it to stop. We just won't let that happen in the Ministry of Economy and Industry. One of the people who testified and told what was happening on the spot and who was involved in the events got a phone call to withdraw his statement. That's not how it's gonna go down, dears, whoever you are! What has been started will be done in the end. We said we'd stop the thefts, we know what's gonna happen, we know what action you're gonna take, we're not gonna stop! We are determined to stop this corruption that we are all talking about, in the amount of 10 billion, that they are stealing, and we are wondering where to get the money to recalculate pensions. We'll bring this one and not just this one case, I'll soon stand before you and with others, to the end! Specifically, no more money will be paid on this deal. I've stopped the payments from the $2 million the company claims. And one penny won't sink in that black hole again. If they want to go to court, and there we will prove who is wrong and who is right, that is what is done in the rule of law. We're holding their bail at the amount of 50% they've made. For the rest of 50, we'll be looking for legal rights and these 700 pages, I think serious material, are already being dealt with in the D.A.'s office. I would like to thank the team of the Ministry of Economy and Industry, in which, in the last month, many people have worked 24/7 and conscientiously to gather serious evidence of what has happened. Hopefully we'll make it to the D.A.'s office and the court. And that's it. We keep going the same way. In order to be able to develop and have funds for both economics and social policy and health care, the first condition is to stop the thefts in the country and to show that we are not just struggling with the current vicious model of governance and backstage. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. With this we have exhausted the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova. Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We move on to the questions to Borislav Sandov. The first question is from the MP Vladimir Marinov about an illegal landfill in the town of Haskovo in the region of Blvd. "Vasil Levski," ul. "Synthesis" and "Synthesis" and "Synthesis." "Momchilgrad." Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to introduce you to a problem that has been harassing the residents of Haskovo for more than five years, namely an illegal landfill in the town of Haskovo in the area of Blvd. "Vasil Levski," ul. "Synthesis" and "Synthesis" and "Synthesis." "Momchilgrad." The landfill has now practically acquired scale and size, which are unbearable for Haskovo residents. Many times the issue has been referred to the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, the Regional Inspectorate for the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, the Regional Inspectorate for the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, the Regional Inspectorate for the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, the Regional Inspectorate for the Ministry of Environment and Water. Unfortunately, recently there was also a rather serious accident on a sewer collector, which practically complicates the issue. My question to you is: is your ministry aware of the same problem and whether any action has been taken, because the Haskovo residents are waiting for a solution, and as soon as possible. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Municipality has practically abdicated from this problem and you will probably have to intervene on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Marinov, Ministry of Environment and Water performs its control functions precisely through regional environmental and water inspections. In RIEW, Haskovo received a signal from the district manager for leaks from water pipes, which arose and dumps on Street. "Acacia" next door to "Acacia" Str. "Momchilgrad," near Block 3. A check was carried out on 12 July 2021 of the described area in the presence of the representatives of The verification showed that as a result of heavy rains, the asphalted section of the street was found to have been paved. "Acacia" up to block number 3 has collapsed in which the sewer collector has failed. It's just down the street. The apartment canal collector has been restored from the water supply and is functioning by accepting the formed waste water from the houses in the area. The area is not restored from about 30 meters until the next collapse, where there is a revision shaft. On the part of the RIEW, Haskovo, a prescription has been given to the water supply to take measures to restore the damaged section of the sewage collector and to end the pollution of the waste water area. By letter dated 18 January this year, the Municipality informed RIEW "Haskovo that a public contract for engineering, the exercise of copyright supervision and the execution of construction works is coming up. The time limit for carrying out the procurement activities by Haskovo Municipality is 105 calendar days. The reference made to the public procurement register found that the contract was announced on 2 February this year and the deadline for receipt of tenders was 15 February. Around block 3 is formed a ravine with emerging unregulated landfills, to which due to running waters and lushing of the area there is no access for cleaning, mechanization and hauling. Some of this waste is on the terrain, covered by the running water, and indeed there are two problems in one that make the situation worse. After a new signal was received from a group of citizens living on Street. A unit for the formation of unregulated landfill and fecal waters in this area was re-checked on 22 October 2021 with a representative of Haskovo Municipality, where it was found that there are numerous inhabited barracks, sheds, huts, brick buildings and others, which are water supplied and electrified. Waste water from the structures is poured on both sides of a concrete collector with a rectangular profile laid down on the bottom of the ravine, not entering it. This has led to a bluffing of numerous places in the area, several places in the empty spaces between the buildings unregulated large amounts of household waste from the residents are being disposed of. Large landfills have also formed in the northern parts of the area as well. There are no, unfortunately, household waste containers in the area and because of this possibility are not served by a specialized car. Access to the area with equipment is possible only from the street. It is also limited because of the glamour. The mayor of Haskovo municipality is given a prescription to clean these accumulated mixed waste from the places indicated in the signal. He has been given a 45-day implementation period after the accident has been resolved. From the RIEW, Haskovo will carry out a timely follow-up control of the prescriptions for addressing environmental problems in that area after their implementation period has expired. In the event of non-compliance, the relevant administrative criminal measures will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Here you go, Mr. Marinov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for the detailed information, very concrete and clear, on the question I asked you, but I ask you to follow the process, because if the local authorities were willing to resolve it and if this is not the case, let us say, some other interests, because in the area of my information there are numerous sites illegally built, and perhaps someone is counting that in the next elections there will be support and therefore no action is taken, and this, of course, is a commitment of the Municipality to be cleaned. Just let your exported structures be involved with the problem and actually monitor the actions of Haskovo Municipality, because if they were willing to resolve the issue, I started my introduction in vain with the fact that it was a problem for more than five years, and if there was a desire for it to be resolved, there probably would have been one. Now that he's gone, it seems to me that serious attention should be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Marinov, you are absolutely right that the Municipality clearly has not done its part to stop this bad practice and to seek a systematic solution to these problems. Perhaps the motivation for such inaction is rooted in other purposes, but it is not in the interests of the residents.... both those who inhabit this area and those who inhabit the nearby parts of the city. And what we, as the Regional Inspectorate of the Environment and Leads in Haskovo and elsewhere, can do, is precisely to strengthen control and to start imposing administrative penal decrees and to seek their execution through a banishing regime, because obviously only with prescriptions does this not happen. The role of regional inspections as a whole of our ministry is not for them to clean these dumps or for them to strengthen these sewer systems, namely to oblige and demand, and to fine those institutions -- whether it be local authorities or other state institutions, which are subject to this under Bulgarian law. Since I've been in the Ministry of Environment and Water's office, we have increased checks, we have increased intolerance to ongoing non-compliance with the regulations of our regional inspections, so this will increase more and more. I hope that the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria will know when and what is responsible for so that it can become clear that sometimes the state does everything possible to solve a problem, but it is the local authorities who do not so that they can take responsibility from them when the time comes for their election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. We move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Zlatomira Mostrova on the implementation of a contract
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Sandov, on 17 June 2020 the Managing Authority of Operational Program The project aims at building an infrastructure that will achieve compliance with national and European legislation in the field of drinking water, waste water extraction and treatment and improving the efficiency of systems and facilities. The project includes reconstruction and rehabilitation of the existing water system structure and construction of new systems and facilities in thirteen agglomerations with more than 10 000 equivalents of residents of Burgas, Nessebar, Pomorie, Sozopol, Primorsko, Obzor, Aytos, Karnobat, Tsarevo, Kiten, Chernomorets, Sarafovo and Lozenets, which are part of the reserved territory served by the Water Supply and Sewerage. The project provides for reconstruction of more than 158 kilometers of plumbing and 22 kilometers of sewerage network, as well as the construction of nearly 7 kilometers of plumbing and 73 kilometers of sewerage network, a new sewage treatment plant and the reconstruction of three other such stations. A reconstruction of two water treatment plants is also envisaged. The project is worth 459 million. And 330,000. BGN, representing investment grants under Operational Programme "Environment". In addition, a loan of more than 17 million has been granted under the same project. EUR of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The really paid amounts of ISU at the date of asking my question are over 19 million. BGN and the deadline for implementation of this contract is 31 May 2024. In relation to the public importance of this project, I ask you the following questions: at what stage is the project at present and what are the reasons for its delay, and what measures has the managing authority taken, including communication with the European Commission regarding the successful implementation of the project within the time frame or phase of the project in the next programming period? Is there any possibility that the project will not be implemented within the time limit established for that period of 31 May 2024, and is there a risk of loss of funds and how much this loss will be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Mostrova. You have the floor, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mostrova, in response to the questions you have asked for the implementation of the Project between the Ministry of Environment and Water and Water Supply and Sewerage, the city of Burgas has concluded an administrative grant agreement of 459 million. 330,000. And BGN 577. The project is in the category of big project, as you understand from the huge amount I mentioned. As such, it has been approved directly by the European Commission. Notes and comments concerning the implementation of the European Habitats Directive have been received during the approval of the Project, according to which Member States are required to develop conservation targets for all protected areas of the Natura 2000 sites. As for certain areas, including those in the district of Burgas, the process of developing and approving these objectives has not been completed, the European Commission sets a condition that a decision on approval in the period 2014 - 2020 should be granted grants only for investment costs outside the urbanised area, which are worth 145 million. It is agreed with the European Commission to indicate as a source of funding the beneficiary's own contribution until the development and approval of conservation objectives is finalized. At the end of 2021, the development of the objectives was awarded through a contract by the Water and Canal Burgas to an elected contractor, namely the Austrian Environment Agency, to develop these objectives. At present, this activity has been assessed as risky and delaying its implementation would result in a complete delay in the implementation of the project activities. Further motivation for the project's high-risk assessment at present is the subsequent need after the development of the objectives for the Natura 2000 sites and the assessment of the non-compliance of the project measures with the already available objectives. A request for amendment of the major project should be made to the European Commission to cover all initial investments outside and within the Natura 2000 sites. At the same time as the request for amendment to the Commission, a request for separation of phases should also be made, namely phased-in of the major project in its entirety, such as the construction of the water infrastructure, which is not finalised by the end of next year, to receive funding within the framework of the new Operational Programme. The Commission will again assess the submitted requests under the Project and only in the case of a positive opinion on the proposed amendments may issue a new decision which may occur at the earliest in the autumn of 2023. Until the new positive decision of the European Commission is received, the project remains risky due to the large financial resources invested in its implementation and the implementation of numerous activities. At present, the beneficiary has announced all public procurement contracts for the selection of contractors of the main project activities... engineering and construction supervision, for the inventory outside............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Public Procurement Plan is necessary for the implementation of the Project and provides for the conclusion of 18 engineering contracts. So far, five such ones have been concluded, four of which are in the design phase. The contractors of the construction supervision of FIDIK engineering are selected for the sites for which the design is already under way and will be carried out outside the Natura 2000 areas. With regard to your question: is there any possibility that the project will not be implemented within the deadline until 2024, as well as if there is a risk of loss of funds, I would like to inform you that given the need to obtain a new positive decision from the European Commission before 2023 to approve the overall implementation of the project, including activities within and outside the Natura 2000 area, there is a possibility that the project will not be implemented within the specified deadline. The risk assessment on the possibility of full implementation of the project depends entirely on the development of the activities for the development and approval of the objectives of the Natura 2000 sites where investment activities will have to be carried out, to which the estimated value is at present almost 300 million. lv. In relation to the risks described so far by the Managing Authority of the OPS, it was requested that the Water and Water Management Authority of Burgas present an action plan for a three-month basis by the end of the programming period. Taking into account the scope of the integrated project, stating the financial resource, the procedural time limits in the protected areas, procurement and amendment of orders, the competent authority, as well as the time needed to amend the Project and obtain a positive re-evaluation by the European Commission, it is of high opportunity, I think it is almost certain that a phase action will be undertaken in the next programming period if this is admissible and admitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. You don't want a line, Mrs. Mostrova. There's information from Mr. Sandov that he can provide you with. The next question and last to Borislav Sandov is from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov concerning problems in the activity of the regional landfill for non-hazardous solid municipal waste near the village of Stojer, Dobrichka municipality, and violations in the preparation and preparation of opinions,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the site provided for the discharge of waste water in Suha Reka, taken with a pipeline from the depot of Stojer, Dobrichka municipality, falls within the boundaries of a protected area of the Natura 2000 network, namely the Protected Area for the conservation of natural habitats of the wild flora and fauna of Suha river. This protected zone was declared by the Order of 2020, promulgated in the State Gazette on 26 January 2021. This protected zone was established for the protection of natural habitats, mammals, amphibians, reptiles, invertebrates and plants. At the time of issue of Decision No BA-6/EC, 2021 to assess the need to carry out an environmental assessment, the site of discharge of waste water does not fall within the protected zone. The inclusion of the site in this protected zone takes place only four days after the issue of the above-mentioned decision, with the Decision dated 22 January 2021 and the area is included in the protected area of the Natura 2000 site, although, if we are to be correct, then the Decision in the Official Journal comes out, and otherwise the order itself was issued on 20 December the previous year. The Decision states that precious wood vegetation in the area is not allowed to be cut down. I want to know how the route of the departure line will be built after at least 1,500 meters of the route passes through protected forest territory. Something I saw in person. In April 2021, a check was carried out by RIEW Varna, where it was found that the local waste water treatment plant was decommissioned and not used. In view of this station, it is established that the pipes taking the waste water to the station have been dismantled. I would like to get an answer to the following question: where was the waste water taken then and is it true that when rainwater builds up, due to snowmelting and waste water from the cage, an environmental assessment of the landfill was carried out in order to drain the accumulated water into the ravine; is this related to the refusal of the RIEW to carry out an environmental assessment of the landfill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, as well as the previous question, we are again getting to when the plans for management and the orders for the announcement of areas of the Natura 2000 project are announced, which also slows down the project in Burgas. This was Bulgaria's commitment until 2014. You can imagine, there are already eight years of delays in these issues. Regarding your particular question. Non-hazardous waste disposal activities in the regional depot in the village of Stoger of the municipalities of Dobrich, Tervel, Nikola Koslevo, Krushari, Kavarna, Shabla, General Toshevo and Balchik are carried out on the basis of a comprehensive permit from 2012, which has been in force since 2015, February, of the Executive Environment Agency of the Municipality of Dobrich, which is the operator of the depot. Complex checks on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the complex permit and according to the Regional Environmental Inspection Plan of Varna shall be carried out at the depot periodically. During the last of February 15th, it has been found that three streams of water are formed on the site of the depot, which you talked about, infiltrated by the landfilled waste, domestic-fecal waters from the sanitary premises and the rainwaters, which are its natural waters. The waste water from the drain system of cell 1 enters a retrosion pool. Infiltrate using the return system is used to water the waste in box 1 of the depot. Bitovo-fecal waters are collected in two tanks and the operator has a contract with an authorized cleaning and transport company to the treatment plant in Dobrich. The rainwaters of the farmyard of the depot and the security gutters of box 1 shall enter a inspection shaft located right next to the entrance of the site and shall then be left in a dry gully. Dry gully is the name, it may be part of the Dry River. The point of discharge is defined according to the condition in the complex permit. There are no tunnels found on the site, what you are asking for, which are used to drain rainwater and waste water into the ravine. With regard to the investment proposal for the construction of a waste collector on 20 January 2020, the Municipality of Dobrich entered the RIOS Varna, which provides for the development of a pipeline for discharge of waste water from the Regional depot of Stoger, in the river Suha river. Within the framework of the procedure, according to the criteria laid down in the Environmental Protection Act, written information and documents were provided to the contracting authority, as well as the opinions received by the Regional Health Inspectorate Dobrich, both of which are Danube and Black Sea. In accordance with the regulatory procedure and deadlines, a decision of 2021 was issued not to carry out an environmental assessment and the same was not contested at the time. The decision has entered into force. In the course of the procedure, the removal of waste water from the cell into the ravine is not subject to consideration of the environmental evaluation procedure. According to the contracting authority, after heavy precipitation and intense snow melting, much of the infiltration remains in the cage. Some of the infiltrates are used to water the waste in the cell, and in cases where there are surplus quantities, the infiltration and excess will be carried to the Purification Station of Vrachantsi, according to a contract with the Water Department of Dobrich. As you understand, the questions you are asking are about activities that occurred within the framework of the previous regular government. From this point of view, we can only make an additional review of what I have ordered an additional inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. That is exactly what I was going to say at the conclusion that we are ultimately commenting on events that happened before the beginning of your term, but since this answer you did not write.. is written by someone from your administration.. there are a lot of things in it that do not correspond to the truth. But I think that you are well-intentioned and that is precisely why I would advise you to go to a place when you have the opportunity, given that you are not idle after all. When you decide, take your time in the next few weeks one day to go to the place to check, because I suspect you will see that what is written in your answer is not all of it answers the truth. I was at the depot. There's no point in telling you what's true now, what's not true. The other thing is that I suspect that this is far from isolated because, unfortunately, this practice one to write and another to do is already pretty well established in the last 30 years in Bulgaria. So to speak, one of the distinctive features and features of the Bulgarian national administration. Finally, what I want to tell you is that this inspection that you mentioned on February 15th is the result that I and other people who are in the area went to a place to see if that was the case. And as a result, because there was a panic almost that municipal councilmen, MPs there appeared, immediately triggered. It shouldn't and shouldn't be right for the checks to happen if someone is a municipal councillor, whether he is a member of parliament, goes on the ground. As far as I know, the people in the area have repeatedly asked this question, including the village mayor. However, as these are two separate municipalities, the Municipality of Dobrich, which is only the city, and the Municipality of Dobrich, which is the villages, it is the Municipality of Dobrich that is the administrator and operator of the depot. The mayor of Dobrich municipality, let's just say he didn't react as well as he should, although I can be a lot harder in my speech, but it doesn't make sense. So I think it is best that you really go to a place to check because, if there are such irregularities as I say there are, they should be removed, and they should be removed as soon as possible and that is to see if it is no longer some established model and practice in the functioning of other similar depots that are built or will be built on the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kostadinov. I do also make such visits, but as you noted, this takes time, which especially for longer journeys, as is one to Dobrich, for which we also need good planning and commitment. But we do these checks. Yeah, what's going on in the village of Stoger, I've been following him for a long time. The people there in general did not even want the depot to be there, but in the end they decided that the authorities that were managing at that time would be in this place. There's a big problem with the regional depots. Most of them are filled. This in Stoger is not yet filled simply because because of this civil resistance for a long time it was not started to be built. But because of the low recycling rate Bulgaria has, these landfills are filled with a lot of waste and these problems will become more frequent. Often, the engineering and technical parameters that are laid down do not correspond to the needs of both pollution and sprinkling and waste disposal, if there is no good process for the surface layer of the depot, but most of all they run out and we have the huge challenge of looking for solutions to this, as long as those targets that are set for recycling are still not implemented at a sufficiently good level. I must confess to you, I also rely on your support, on all MPs, with amendments to the Waste Management Act, to take the necessary steps to optimize the process and to bring about greater implementation of waste management objectives, in order to drastically reduce landfilling, better manage processes that are linked to already depopulated waste, and to limit waste in general, so that we do not wonder how to act with them afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. With this we have exhausted the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Borislav Sandov. Thank you, Mr. Sandov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Nadezhda Yordanova, Minister of Justice. First of all will be the issue by the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Ekaterina Zaharieva and Stefan Mirev about the leak of personal data by the Registry Agency, the BULSTAT registry. According to the program, the first question is from Dessislava Atanasova, but since she has a short commitment, we will move further back. Here you are, Mr. Mirev, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u75	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the Parliament, Mrs. Yordanova. Under the Personal Data Protection Act, in the event of a breach of personal data security, the controller shall inform the Commission of the protection of personal data without undue delay, but no later than 72 hours after having learned of the infringement, respectively, of the Inspectorate. My question is about the case of the leak of personal data by the Registry Agency, the BULSTAT Registry, did the Agency notify the Commission of the protection of personal data within the period prescribed by the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mirev. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Before I go to the substance of this question, I will make one clarification that I made a few days ago. At the beginning of January of this year, there is no unauthorised access to personal data by the Registry Agency, the BULSTAT registry. It is about the fact that personal data of individuals is visible to the BULSTAT register and they have been visible since 2005. This was the Law. A few days ago, thanks to the votes of this National Assembly, the Law was amended. And let me get to the point of the answer to your question. At the beginning of January, when the identifier of self-insuring persons in the BULSTAT registry was changed, namely.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A number of written alerts were received at the Registry Agency. As a result, the Registry Agency shall immediately, of course, notify the Commission of the protection of personal data within the legal period. The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data was not only informed, and SANS was informed, and I and the security person in the Ministry of Justice were informed. Immediately checks were carried out, including the security of the BULSTAT registry. The legal regime of access and visibility of these personal data has been established and the legal regime of access and visibility of these personal data has accordingly been changed, as we already know, and to legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u78	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mirev, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u79	Mrs. Yordanova, I thank you for your reply, but for this case the Sofia District Attorney's office is seizing itself. Currently there is a file and a check is under way by the Directorate General of National Police. So I call on you to take action in the future to prevent such cases which could have adverse consequences for a wide range of people, namely 300 000 self-insuring persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u80	Thank you. The next question is from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova, Dani Kanazireva and Anna Alexandrova again regarding the leak of personal data from the Registry Agency, the BULSTAT registry. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues. In relation to the information submitted in the public domain and related, of course, to the previous question of the colleague, for a breach in the protection of the personal data of more than 300 thousand people with free professions in the BULSTAT registry after conversion from the single civil number to the single identification code, my question to you is: was there a risk analysis of the BULSTAT registry systems created, an action plan in the Registry Agency and was training the employees in your agency for response in the event of unlawful processing of personal data? In this respect, have rules been made to assess the impact of data protection on the initial launch of new information systems and applications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Before I go to the substance of the question, I make the following clarification. There was no breach in the protection of personal data maintained in the BULSTAT registry. The personal data of self-insuring persons are publicly visible on a legal basis and this has been a fact since 2005. The essence of the matter. The Registry Agency has developed policies, procedures and instructions relating to the protection of personal data as well as internal documents which regulate the following: a policy for the exercise of the rights of personal data subjects in the Registry Agency; a policy for the protection of personal data; a general framework; and a policy for the protection of personal data concerning the BULSTAT registry; an instruction on measures and means of protection of personal data collected, processed, stored and provided by the Registry Agency; a procedure for action and notification in case of breach of personal data security in the Registry Agency; ISO 9001:2015, ISO/IEC 27001:2013. On the official page of the Registry Agency, a personal data protection policy is published in the BULSTAT registry. The controller shall, by means of the personal data protection policy, declare that it applies appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the lawful processing of personal data of natural persons. The Agency for Registrys on 31 August 2021 has established an action procedure and notification procedure by the Executive Director in case of personal data breach in the Registry Agency. The procedure shall regulate the actions taken by the controller, processor and personal data protection officer in the Registry Agency in the event of a breach of personal data security and the procedure for notification thereof. The Registry Agency shall have a personal data protection officer who has an obligation to monitor compliance with personal data protection rules, to provide advice on the impact on data protection and to monitor the assessment, to cooperate with the supervisory authority, to act as a point of contact for the supervisory authority on processing matters. As regards specific software development and acceptance, a test shall always be carried out to assess, respectively, how these requirements are met. And again, I repeat the problem that we are discussing and which we discussed the previous days was related to the implementation of a valid law that we have changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Minister. I'm not satisfied with the answer. There's a problem. The very fact that pre-trial proceedings are being initiated, verification is being carried out and facts and circumstances are being established suggests that there is a problem - if the data has leaked, we will see, hopefully, very soon. In this regard, I would like to ask you: Has the Registry Agency been referred to by law by colleagues about the problem and been deposited with them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u86	Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as I pointed out in the reply to the previous question, the Registry Agency has received numerous messages, I suppose, and complaints and notifications. I can't say how many of them are from fellow lawyers, whether all of them have been answered, but I'm committed to making an inspection and informing you in writing about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u88	Thank you. We are moving to Branimir Balachev, Dani Kanazireva and Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova again on the leak of personal data from the Registry Agency, BULSTAT registry. Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! My question is about the leaking of personal data again. But I would like to draw attention not only to you, but also to my fellow Members for the fact that, in recent years, legislation on the protection of personal data has actually been very unconditionally developed on the basis of directives, in fact, these personal data are being managed in the European Union, and the reason for this is very clear. Abuse of personal data is a very clear action, because on the basis of these personal data unscrupulous persons could, unfortunately, and do them many things... false profiles can draw credit and what we have not seen in legal peace. As a lawyer, I assume you know that. In this regard, I believe that the public danger of abuse and whether it is guilty or because of administrative negligence is relevant to the public danger of this kind of activity, that is to say, the preservation of personal data is very high and therefore not only ours, but also the interest of society and, by the way, in particular, of my fellow lawyers, who are nearly 14 thousand in Bulgaria and are directly affected by the leak of personal data from the Registry Agency, is quite legitimate. In this regard, my question lies in the following. First of all, I would like to ask you: was there a unit of the Registry Agency in the protection of personal data, risk management and, if so, under whose management it was? In addition to this obvious violation, I say again, whether it is a crime or an administrative offence, we will find out on the basis of this criminal proceedings, which has obviously already been initiated, but specifically for you: Have you initiated disciplinary proceedings against guilty persons? The period for the initiation of such disciplinary proceedings in my view has already expired and should, if you have found such guilty persons, be initiated and, once you have initiated it and know those responsible for it, and it is your duty, whether you have notified the relevant services that have cashiership to the handling of personal data. This is the State Agency of National Security, this is the Ministry of Interior, this is the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, I would like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u90	Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully agree with you that the policy and action on the protection of citizens' personal data, of individuals is an extremely important subject, both from the point of view of the security of their privacy and from the point of view of the security of our public life and business turnover and national security. It is for this reason that we should not speculate on this. Once again, we are commenting on the fact that the permanent addresses and phones and e-mails of self-insuring persons are visible on the basis of a fact which we changed a few days ago. I'll get back to the basics of your question. As I informed in response to a previous question, there is an appointed personal data protection officer in the Commission, it is subject to the Executive Director of the Agency. Also, as I pointed out in response to a previous question, the Personal Data Protection Commission and the DANS were immediately informed of the signals received by different citizens in early January, in the first days. An immediate inspection was carried out and it was found that these personal data were publicly visible on the basis of a legal basis since 2005. No disciplinary proceedings were initiated on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Here's a line, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u93	Madam Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer, because, as I said, I believe that handling personal data and the possibility, again, I say, whether intentionally or cautiously, to make the same information known to many people, I find no reason to believe that some of them are public. I believe that failure to take timely action, whether disciplinary action or criminal action, will not act directly with regard to the conduct of other such actions in the future, which will not be a good sign for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u94	Thank you. By doing so, we have exhausted the questions concerning personal data from the Registry Agency. And I, as listed in the BULSTAT registry, can confirm that my data was visible long before that. The next question is from the National Representative Elena Guncheva, but it is postponed due to the disease of the National Representative. We move on to a question from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure and the work of the Bureau of Witness Protection. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u95	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! The 46th National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in criminal proceedings, with which the Bureau for the Protection of Witnesses closed and went to submission to the Ministry of Justice. The idea of this amendment to the Law of the then majority aimed to make the report for the Bureau to the Minister of Justice and to report it to the National Assembly. That is precisely why my question to you is within the framework of parliamentary control. Also, all of the Bureau's properties should be transferred from the Attorney General to the Ministry of Justice for this matter yesterday we have a Constitutional Court decision, and to drop all police functions, such as the possibility of detaining, searching and forcing persons to bring in, while maintaining only its security functions. In this regard, I would like to ask you: how and in what way, to date, the Witness Protection Bureau has performed its functions in the last few months under the authority of the Ministry of Justice and how many protected persons and protection cases are carried out and secured by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, with the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with the criminal proceedings made by the 46th National Assembly, it was intended by the Bureau for the protection of the non-specific police functions of the Bureau and, accordingly, the functions relating to the protection of magistrates in order to focus on the performance of its main function. I can inform you that the process of transferring the structure of the Bureau of Defense from the Attorney General to the Minister of Justice has been carried out in due time, all organizational actions have been carried out. The only thing that hasn't ended is the passage of the building where the Bureau is housed, from the Attorney General to the Justice Department. As you know, this provision has been challenged by the Prosecutor General as unconstitutional and since yesterday, as you very accurately pointed out, we have a Constitutional Court ruling. So I expect this procedure to be completed as well. Accordingly, the duties on guarding magistrates have passed over to the General Directorate of Security. At present, 15 persons in 9 cases of protection are subject to special protection, of which against 7 protected persons protection measures are implemented in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and 4 cases with a total of 8 persons are carried out in the territory of other countries. With effect from 9 February this year, a special protection order has been issued in the form of prior protection against an endangered person. What lies ahead from the point of view of increasing administrative capacity is an increase in the administrative capacity of the Bureau in relation to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. I must also share that the Protection Council is meeting regularly, as provided for in the Law, and is impressed that the Prosecutor General has obviously lost interest in this activity, because two consecutive meetings are not included without a good reason for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u99	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. I would like to say to you that we will keep an eye on how the Bureau of Defense works, because for comparison only for 2020, it has guarded 20 witnesses in a total of 10 cases in the country and 8 abroad, and in the first 6 months of 2021. 16 people in 9 cases? 8 in the country and 8 abroad. So the number is almost identical. The Council of Ministers adopted in my reply I would like to ask you to reduce the state by 25 people of the Bureau of Protection, including the Security Directorate and the Bureau of Protection of Threatened Persons, and I would like to ask you: is there a reduction in the state numbers, in what size is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yeah, there's a reduction in the Bureau's numbers. I can't give you specific figures, I'll send you written information. But it is not due to reduce the Bureau's capacity. As I have explained, some of the functions he has performed so far in connection with the guarding of magistrates have gone to the General Directorate of Security and, in fact, the numbers are there together with the appropriate allocation of the necessary material equipment for the performance of these functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u102	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is again by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova on the general budgetary framework of the secondary officers with the budget funds of the Ministry of Justice................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u103	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I just want to insert you here, you see why I insisted that the questions should be timely and that they should be on time, because maybe this question for the previous ones I no longer comment on, for the data leak was up to date two months ago, is no longer up to date. But this issue was up to date before the vote on the budget of the Council of Ministers was formed at all, and perhaps the Minister would have taken it into account because it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I, too, agree that the questions are up to date as well as in the Rules of Procedure, but simply in the order of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Ministers are followed by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u105	The National Assembly received letters from trade union organizations of prison officials in Bulgaria in December to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. In their letters, they insist that the general budgetary framework of the authorising officers by budget of the Ministry of Justice is reviewed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, my question to you is: does the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice suggest that we have seen in the budget that you have not foreseen, but let us see how we will present it to the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Alexandrova, I understand the need for an active position of the opposition, but as I said just a few minutes ago, you obviously have not done everything as thoroughly and as thoroughly as you say, because we are currently working in an urgent order on two regulations that should have been adopted as early as 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u108	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question, which is from the MP Kostadin Kostadinov and which is the last one. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, regarding the activities of the private court contractors.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Yordanova, I believe that in order for the creditor-debtor relations to be balanced, attention should be paid to the activities of private court contractors, whose actions and powers are subject to multiple complaints, and how many complaints are there, no one can say. I believe that the lack of such information and real action on such complaints discourage the wronged by the criminal actions of private judicial contractors to send signals. To date, the volume of the actions of private judicial contractors which can be challenged outside the court is minimal, and this referral with signals and complaints may be in front of either the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors themselves or before you as Minister of Justice. How do you view the possibility of creating a single register on the Justice Ministry's website, where information on alerts and/or complaints against private judicial contractors and the results of the inquiries made on these complaints by the Ministry entrusted to you? Do you honestly think that we owe to the public information on the legality or unlawfulness of the actions of private judicial contractors, especially in cases where it comes to the withdrawal of housing, property or payment? I believe that the establishment of such a register will at least partially help to dispel the accumulated suspiciousness and anxiety in society about the work of those already acquired scandalous parts of the court performers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand the context of your question, and I fully understand the public concern about the activity and the increased interest in the activities of private judicial contractors. What I can tell you as specific numbers is that for 2021, there have been 420 complaints received in the Ministry of Justice and 320 of them have been completed. We have made proposals for disciplinary proceedings in 22 of the cases, and 12 of the cases are given instructions for proper compliance with the Law. With regard specifically to whether or not we should and how we deal with the establishment of a register on alerts, checks and their results against private judicial contractors, I consider it necessary to point out that the issue should be seen in a broader context, because enforcement is not limited to the actions of private judicial contractors. You know, we have government contractors, and when it comes to public claims, we also have public contractors. In fact, we need to look at the issue in a complex way in order to assess and have complex information on the issue of enforcement, because in other cases, we still have a performance on real estate owned by individuals or their employment obligations respectively. So if such a debate is initiated, the Ministry of Justice will, of course, participate and participate in it in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Line, Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Yordanova, I did not hear an answer to my question, which was very simple: will there be a register of these signals and complaints, which you have now informed us that there have been submitted for last year 420, of which considered 320, of which 22 or 20 have ended with one decision, 16 with another and so on. Because that's what's really important, and there's no way every parliamentary control to ask such questions, it's nice to see that information on the Justice Department's website. Actually, I didn't hear that as an answer. Are you going to do it because I think it's not something that would make it hard for you or your administration to know how much, but it's a matter of the work of some IT specialist in a few days to introduce this register? But you have put up another important topic for which I thank you, because we are preparing amendments to the Law, because all over the world court performers are a necessary evil anyway. There are always debtors who must somehow be forced to repay their debts. Another point is that in our society private judicial contractors have become more and less of a part of criminal schemes that serve to destroy people who for one reason or another have become temporary insolvency, that is, a very serious and precise assessment of the effect and impact of their actions on society as a whole must be made. The state contractors mentioned by you are turning to anachronism at some point at the moment because their maintenance costs tens of millions of levs to the state, and the money they put into the budget is worth several million and, to put it another way, the state is losing the maintenance of this institute. On the other hand, we have private court performers who turn their activities no more, no less into a semi-muture organization that acts on the principle: The power is in my hands, I hold the knife, I hold the bread!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u114	Mr. Kostadinov, let us still not qualify whole industries, is not correct for the court performers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u115	Okay, I'm sorry, we won't qualify them. We will take the opportunity that the legislator has given us and which gives us Bulgarian democracy to make our amendments to the relevant laws so that we can make this debate so that we can put the issue on an equal footing, because at the moment private judicial contractors are in one superiority over the rest of the Bulgarian society. For one reason or another, this is something that, if the actions and status of the state contractors at present are to some extent anachronism, perhaps it is not because of the way they act, but because of the way they are placed by the institution itself and institutional arrangements, and the actions of private judicial contractors create very serious tensions in society, that is to say, we are between two extremes. I think it is the justice ministry's job to think about this mostly, and if this thing does not happen, we are acting in this direction anyway and will present both to the Justice Committee and, of course, to the MPs, to the Justice Ministry itself, our bill for changes in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u116	A hole, Madam Minister, do you wish or not? Okay. Thank you. This ended the questions to the Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova. Unfortunately, Mrs. Atanasova's question and Mrs. Guncheva's question will remain for next time. Thank you very much for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. The first question is from the MP Georgi Mihaylov about the National Children's Hospital. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The question we are asking echoes in the hearts of every Bulgarian citizen and it was put through the parliamentary group of BSP in the Bulgarian Parliament several years ago. Unfortunately, you know his story. In recent months, I'm sorry, the question was asked a month ago, and now it appears that there are 20 million allocated in the budget. lv. It did not show any clarity at the time of the official governments when an idea came up, which, in our opinion and in my opinion, was not particularly rational, and you stopped it with your action. I don't want to go into the details, and maybe in the ability to make a line, I'll go into some of the details. I would like to understand your particular opinion on a specific action programme in calendar 2022. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u118	Thank you, Professor. Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you rightly pointed out in your question, no doubt the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital is a task of great public importance and should be approached with the necessary seriousness. It is a priority for the development of quality health care in Bulgaria and should be part of a comprehensive concept for the development of children's health care, as the building and the specific equipment is undoubtedly important, but even more important or not less important is the construction of the relevant specialists. I assure you that my team has abstained, as you have pointed out, from hasty and unwarranted decisions on this matter. Each of our actions from the moment when the case was put to our attention and the attention of the public is subject to an in-depth analysis. From the first moment this case is in my responsibility, it is also subject to the opinion of all stakeholders, including the representatives of the pediatric community, medical specialists and NGOs, who you know are also very active in this case. As soon as I took office one of my first decisions was, as you pointed out, the suspension of the procedure initiated by the previous management of the Hospital of Lozenets and the Health Investment Company for Children's Hospital in the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases. Ivan Mitev is going to clarify all the facts and circumstances in order to be able to find the best solution for the long-term work for the Bulgarian children as well as for the pediatricians. During the meeting with the management of the Specialized Children's Hospital, I was informed that the team has also prepared a project to improve the conditions of the hospital hospital. That is, in parallel with our actions, for which I will shortly give a little more information about finding a place for the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, there is also a project to improve the conditions in the existing medical facility until this final decision is realized. A report on the subject by the Executive Director has been submitted to the Ministry of Health since the end of last year and has been submitted for consideration by the competent directorates. Our goal is the national children's hospital, as I said, not to be only in a building or in construction and is not a mechanical merger of hospital structures, but a result of a comprehensive analysis of the needs of children's health care. This is one of the priorities of the coalition management. The implementation of a comprehensive analysis for the needs of children's healthcare as a national priority. During the past month, two meetings were held at the Ministry of Health and with the National Citizens' Initiative for a Real Children's Hospital, where their requests and suggestions were heard, and by my order of 24 January 2022, a working group of experts from the Ministry of Health was established, which has a period of 2 months to analyse all the actions that have been undertaken so far in the years, all the problems that have emerged on the way of this project to be successful because, on the one hand, assists the Ministry, on the other hand, the Health Investment Company for Children's Hospital, but also the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and other state bodies and institutions. An analysis of legal, financial and medical aspects of the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital, as well as public response among doctors specialists, patient organizations and all stakeholders will be prepared. There is also a verification by the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of Health for the costs incurred in the implementation of the project, so that in fact within one month after the completion of the working group, we will provide you with this analysis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u120	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Professor Mihailov, for your reply please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, honourable colleagues! From your answer, I see that the Ministry has taken seriously the task of solving the problems of the Children's Hospital. I just want to help you with the line I'm going to allow myself to make in a few minutes. A serious analysis is really needed and it is really necessary to find a place and solve the problem where the construction of this hospital will take place, but these are issues that will take years. And the in-sofience of providing complex medical assistance to the most vulnerable child contingent in Bulgaria remains, and for the nationally significant beds. One of my main counterarguments against my colleague Katsarov, and most benevolently, is that the number of beds, which are of national importance, I also asked Professor Baltov, who, I think, was also the director of Pirogov, and he gave me information about children's surgical beds in Pirogov. I also gathered all the other nationally significant beds in Sofia, because mostly here are concentrated nationally significant beds, without diminishing the role of the universities in Pleven, Varna and Plovdiv and then it turned out that they are about 250. I believe that, in parallel with the analysis and actions in the construction of the hospital, action should be carried out, I have a specific idea, about the unification of all children's units in Sofia. I know that you will encounter quite a lot of resistance, because in our profession there is a certain dose of useful conservatism and moving one unit to another is accompanied by very big problems. But believe me, knowing as a pediatrician and working for tens of years with very severe patients at this extremely vulnerable age, this fragmentation that we are witnessing with colleagues about a child who needs emergency surgery, not to mention intervention, to waste hours on this even on the territory of Sofia, should not last any longer. Binarno in time and by the end of this year you should try to resolve this issue. I am ready to meet with you and actually talk about where it is now possible, in this year, to attempt to collect these units and to implement this complex assistance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u122	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Do you want to do a douche bag? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, we are working on the problem that you mentioned, as it is undisputed that pediatric assistance in the territory of Sofia is found in different places, away from each other, which creates fragmentation in medical care and the time factor is extremely important. What I would like to add to my previous reply is that there has been a verification by the Agency for State Financial Inspection on the legality of compliance with the regulations which actually govern the regulations in the field of public procurement in relation to the procedure carried out.. So, in fact, the conclusions that there are in this report will also take into account. Indeed, as you said, the assessment is very complex, it will take time, but at the same time it should not delay consolidation as possible under the current conditions, of course, with additional funding of the fragmented units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u124	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is the MP Jevdet Chakarov on the electronic health information system. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Serbenova, to the question I asked about the construction of the electronic health information system at the end of January, I have already received almost an answer from the media, but given that the issue concerns both doctors and patients, and the public is waiting for an answer to this question, I will also ask it from the stands of the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that on 9 June 2017, the forty-fourth National Assembly took a decision, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, with which it obliged the Minister of Health to carry out the necessary actions within two years to implement a Single Health Information System. It is clear that this is not a fact and since 2019 we are in violation of this decision of Parliament. By the way, this saga is not from yesterday, it is not from today, it is a long time ago, but it is high time that this information system is built and functioning. My question to you is: which of the main elements of the electronic health information system have already been put into effect and are actually working; which elements remain to be put into effect and what deadlines is this envisaged to happen; does it take into account an improvement in the control of the healthcare system and the quality of medical services based on the elements already in place and if It is obvious that at this stage there is no exchange of information even between university hospitals, TelK and other structures in the healthcare system, there is no normally functioning electronic health system, but it was felt especially during the current pandemic. For example, even large university hospitals do not have electronic access if this is overcome, let's find out that they do not have access to the RZI system and cannot download the results of PCR or antigen tests that testify or deny positive or negative results for COVID-19 introduced into the health information system. Furthermore, I also allow myself to say from personal experience that, after appropriate positive tests, the exchange of information is delayed so as to call and control the patients who are already tested with positive tests are subject to quarantine. In what way does this process take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u127	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Currently, the following modules and functionalities of the electronic health information system, called the NIS, have been developed and implemented. Core basic functionality. This is a single environment for the exchange of medical data, thereby ensuring the communication of all NIS modules, systems and subsystems and those to be built through an interface or web service, including communication with external registers and information systems. Developer environment. An integration environment is provided for the operation of the embedded modules, specifications, subsystems and test environment, in which I am personally assured, when launching a new module, all stakeholders who have access can comment before it is released. A set of nomenclatures necessary for the modules put into operation. They have been developed and integrated with NZIS main registers, with integration with the main systems of different institutions - Esgraone, NSI, Register of the Bulgarian Medical Union, Register of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, Positive Drug List, Immunization Register, Kovid Register and others. The electronic recipe that covers the recipes that apply to medicines paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund is a fact. The so-called white recipe. With regard to the white recipe, some of the problems that you have raised are rather not a problem of the National Health Information System itself, but a problem that should be dealt with in the regulatory framework. Currently there is a working group in the Ministry of Health and a draft regulation is being reviewed. In other words, the relevant entities must be obliged, of course, to fill out information, and this is part of the problem - the solution that you mentioned. Electronic direction for medical-diagnostic research for COVID-19. An electronic review is also envisaged which allows in real time to send the data from the medical examinations carried out to the NZIS, which will take place precisely after the release of this regulation. Electronic medical records, electronic health records. Here eight sections have been developed and their number will be increased with the development of a special module and for hospitalizations. Currently it contains only information about the prescribed and distributed electronic recipes and electronic directions. A health information portal is also envisaged and additional sections are added to it: recording time for vaccination; digital certificate; mobile applications are also provided for applications for withdrawal of digital certificate, applications for validation of digital certificates, but we have also had conversations with representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union for mobile applications for prescription of e-recipes and 15 electronic administrative services have been developed. In terms of time limits. By the end of 2022, the NZIS is to be developed and implemented in the full functionality according to the technical assignment, to have the regulation in question, which I mentioned, and among the main modules and functionalities to be finalised, are modules for electronic recipe, electronic direction, for immunizations and hospitalizations, will be developed and upgraded integrated with the NZIS and other registers, the idea being the National Cancer Register also to be integrated into this system, the Register of People with Diabetes, the National Register of Invasive Cardiology, the National Genetic Register, including the Register of Clinical Trials. A monitoring and control system will be developed and implemented after, of course, the regulatory changes which oblige all entities to complete data and, based on these data, statistical processing will be carried out for the purpose, as you mentioned, management control, decision-making based on facts, data and analysis, in order to improve the efficiency of the system and the management of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u128	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Serbenova, it is evident that quite, I would say, large-scale and serious is the work and work on the introduction of electronization into the healthcare system, as is the June 2017 decision. I wish you success to realize this finally in view of the fact that there are serious expectations. I have not heard from you what will be effective from your point of view as the Minister of Health, who is the principal of this activity. We definitely believe that the introduction of digitalisation into the healthcare system will improve awareness, tracking all processes in the healthcare system. When we looked at the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Health at all of the healthcare system, we see that huge funds for the country's capabilities, the budget, albeit from opposition, say it so correctly, this efficiency is not achieved. We believe that in this way control and efficiency would significantly improve. It is hardly necessary to recall that the debates and the 2017 draft decision were proposed by the DPS parliamentary group. Together with the other colleagues, I was one of those who proposed this decision, and we will follow this process to be finalized because it is in the interests of all citizens, of the healthcare system in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Would you like a douche? You have the floor, Madame Minister. Once I've indicated you in time, you can finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! At present, the NZIS has processed and issued electronic prescriptions for 11 million. 355,000. and 165, 10 million. and 300 thousand, the issued directions are 310 thousand, the completed directions are 270 thousand. It is certainly what you said, and I can only confirm it. Expectations are that once the processes are digitized, they will be illuminated, the statistics will not be fragmented, but will be at national level. So there is an improvement in the process of serving citizens in terms of the introduction of electronic recipes, which are paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as in the fields of medical diagnostic research. There will definitely also be a focus on cost-efficiency, which will be visible with all these data. In practice, the most effectively managed and the most informed and adequate management decisions are made for processes that are illuminated and which are known about the data, and in dynamics, which is also the purpose of this national health information system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u132	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is again by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Serbenova, the Ministry of Health prepared in September last year a draft law supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine together with the whole package of documents needed for its adoption in the Council of Ministers. A public discussion was held September "October" last year. The bill provides for the state to bear the costs of treating autoimmune diseases with medicinal products derived from human blood or human plasma The Bulgarian legislation already regulates the use of medicinal products outside the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation, the so-called off-label use, explicitly stating that a medicinal product applied outside the condition of the Marketing Authorisation is not paid by public funds. However, in a number of cases these medicinal products, according to medical practice, are the only medicines that are suitable for the treatment of certain patients, but at this stage they must pay for them themselves. That is why it is so important that this exclusion for immunoglobulins in the treatment of autoimmune diseases be legally provided for so that the state can ensure the treatment of these sick people and that they are not deprived of it due to lack of personal means. However, concern is the fact that only systemic lupus erythematosus is included in the treatment list at this stage. The choice of only one disease, although they deserve to be treated, in this there is no dispute and two opinions, it is good that the rest who could be treated should be included in this scope, all the more so that regulation in European law is not on this issue and this can be settled at national level. I believe that it is correct to approach other patients subject to such treatment. In this regard, my question is: whether relevant legislative changes are envisaged, whether this is intended to be included in the budget... we have not yet considered the budget for next year. It is right and correct that these patients should also be careful and included in the treatment, because they are not always able to treat their diseases by personal means now, not to state in detail what is what, in view of the limited time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u134	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The draft law on supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, as you said, Associate Professor Chakarov, together with the accompanying documents in the period September "October 2021" was published for public discussion on the website of the Ministry of Health and was sent for interdepartmental coordination with the other ministers on the basis of art. 32, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. As you rightly pointed out, the use of medicinal products outside the conditions of the marketing authorisation, so-called off-label, was finally regulated in 2020. It is intended that treatment with such products should only be carried out exceptionally in the absence of an alternative for a particular patient, only in the interests of its health and necessarily under the supervision of a doctor who is in fact responsible for the subsequent effects of off-label use. The law explicitly states that a medicinal product applied outside the condition of the marketing authorisation is not paid by public funds. In the draft law on the supplement of the PRM, it is proposed to create an exception to the prohibition on medicinal products derived from human blood or human plasma Initially, it was envisaged that the diseases for which these medicinal products are reimbursed should be systemic lupus and multiple sclerosis, but according to the opinion of academic Professor Ivan Milanov, chief co-ordinator of the Expert Board on Nervous Diseases, the Council does not find it necessary to pay this medicinal product and for multiple sclerosis, as there have not been sufficient clinical trials with that medicinal product to confirm its safety and efficacy. However, the project provides that the above-mentioned medicinal products are to be reimbursed for patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Patients with lupus erythematosus are about 5,000, some 300 of them are only subject to treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins. In view of the fact that the Project requires public funds to be spent for the payment of that product, an analysis of the information provided by the National Health Insurance Fund and the Expert Committee on rheumatology has also been carried out and it has been found that the total cost for that number of 300 patients, appropriate from those 5000, with an average dose of 80 milligrams per kilogram of body weight at a given average mass, amounts to around 16 million. 400,000. BGN 124. During the public discussion, proposals were also received from various patient and other organizations with a proposal to be subsidised and other medicinal products used as off-label for the treatment of various diseases: myasthenia gravis, which we discussed in the Health Commission, Gillen-Barre syndrome, chronic polyradiculoneuritis and others, which are in the stage of consideration and discussion by the Ministry of Health. The proposals received will be reviewed as soon as possible and presented for public consultation. This is the stage I can report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u136	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Docent Chakarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I am largely satisfied with the answer I have heard. I see that there is a positive attitude for this problem to be solved and it is right for it to be solved. Naturally, in any case, as doctors, we know very well that the appropriate clinical trials must be carried out, we must be convinced that the relevant drug (s), in this case immunoglobulins, will have a positive therapeutic effect. There's no doubt about that. This aspect, of course, I did not foresee in my question, but it is good that we have received information. More importantly, in principle, it should be handled this way, but in this case it is a small group of patients and the financing of their treatment would not really burden, it would not seriously damage the budget. So I am glad that we will be able to pay due attention both through the ministry and through all colleagues to treat such patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u138	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Do you want a hole? The next question is from the National Representative Ivaylo Hristov on contracts of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment for the period 2014 - 2020. Here you are, Dr. Hristov, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, two weeks ago regarding our inquiry you submitted some data on the duties of medical institutions, including the duties of the largest hospitals located in Sofia. After these figures we were asked a number of questions about why and how. At the same time, a lot of information came to us, including from the media, about contracts concluded at Alexandrovska Hospital for the period 2014-2020. For example: a contract with a law firm with a subject-matter of total pre-eminent legal service and for 2015 for the sum of 21 thousand. lv. plus 100 leva. per hour; contract with a junior lawyer not even entitled to represent the company in court for the sum of 19 thousand. And 800 leva.; legal protection contract and assistance with a law firm for 2016 for 60 thousand. lv. For two cases, only one of them paid an additional fee of 50 thousand. And 400 leva. In 2018, the amount of 28 thousand was transferred to a legal firm. And 700 leva. without VAT for consulting the hospital under the Personal Data Protection Regulation in the case of methodological guidance from the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. The same year another law firm was paid 29,000. And 700 leva. without VAT, the legality of the new anti-money laundering measures, provided that the CAPCONPI has also issued its own instructions. For the period there are also a number of smaller contracts and contracts related to legal service. At the same time, the University Hospital of Alexandrovska also provided media comfort with a number of contracts. From 2017 to 2021, an unknown or slightly popular website has been translated 50 thousand. lv. For information, the most sought-after health site "Health net" has been translated BGN 5040. A regional Pleven newspaper has been paid 3,000 leva. From 2015 to 2018 the media monitoring was 3 thousand. BGN 888. without VAT per year. On one of the famous for its yellow site and its adjacent newspapers were translated 15,000. lv. From 2018 to 2020 In 2017, 29 thousand were paid in advance. And 500 leva. for the creation of a dynamic website.. something that has not been done so far. In 2016, a company was paid 19 thousand. And 800 leva. to carry out a financial analysis, pay attention, financial analysis of 12 companies, hospitals in Sofia, 19 thousand were paid. And BGN 527. to audit the cable network. In 2018, 32 thousand were paid. And 160 BGN. for an ideal project where video security cameras should be located, not for the delivery of video cameras, not for the installation of video cameras, but for where to have 32 thousand cameras located...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u140	Dr. Hristov, please ask the question as your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u141	We have the names of the law firms, companies and individuals of the above contracts, but for objective reasons we do not mention them. My question is: what legal staff does the University Hospital have, what analytical staff, including marketing and advertising, and what piari has the medical establishment? What has imposed the payment of all the above-mentioned contracts and how many more similar contracts exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u142	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment - Alexandrovska EAD, Sofia, is a single shareholder company in which the state owns 100% of the capital. The rights are exercised by the Minister of Health. The same is a state-owned medical establishment, a commercial company within the meaning of the Commercial Law, § 1, item 1. 2 of the Additional provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions, and as such it is managed and represented by its management bodies................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Operating management is carried out by the Board of Directors, whose powers are to conclude the contracts that you quoted necessary for the functioning of the medical establishment. On the occasion of your request, we have requested further information from the Company, which shows the following: The current manual of UMBAL "Alexandrovska" confirms the credibility of the data you have exported regarding expenditure incurred for external service contracts, those you quoted as referring to legal, media and others. The reference found that a total of 15 legal service contracts and 19 media service contracts were concluded for the period 2014-2020. Information is provided by the Company about the employed administrative staff with analytical functions, which shows that for the same period the medical establishment has had employees holding the posts referred to in your inquiry for the period 2014 - 2020 as follows: In this period, there were lawyers who had 4 posts employed, no change in the period 2014 - 2020 of the number. That is, their period has not increased further. Analytical specialists from 24 jobs in 2014, there is a change here, they decrease to 18 in 2020. An expert on public relations and relations has had one job in the period 2014 - 2019 and two in 2020. Meanwhile, in recent years, you know that the Law on Public Enterprises is also adopted, which limits the possibilities for intervention, with an apology for that word, of the Ministry of Health in the specific operational decisions of a hospital. According to the provision of art. 18 of the Law on Public Enterprises, the Minister of Health cannot intervene in a management or ongoing operation of the Company in relation to the Law, since the Ministry of Health has most public undertakings from all other ministries. This law is currently being analysed, its imperfections, and we will propose specific changes to it, for which we will rely on your help. Maybe I'll add to the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? Dr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u145	Unfortunately, I was right. When we started 22 years ago, the ways of draining the hospitals were a little more different.. were bought scrapped scanners for a million and 200 thousand; in one other hospital were bought in the presence of 4,000. kv. m area 6 thousand. kv. m tile. Now the mechanisms seem to be a little more subtle now, but the management system, colleagues, hasn't been pushed. A board of directors, who has all the responsibility and from which no one is taking responsibility at the moment, because for all the things that have happened, and for these contracts, a board of directors had to take responsibility and seek every year finally why for every expense. However, this board of directors was appointed by the then minister and these are people who have appeared for years to receive certain salaries. Make an account of the effectiveness involved. The worst part is that at the moment Alexandrovska Hospital is not the only one, such hospitals exist dozens in the country. The contracts that I'm reading to you right now, similar contracts of these are still working in dozens of hospitals, and there is no one who can stop this whole process of robbing my colleagues and robbing patients because it's pure robbing. Without further ado, Madam Minister and colleagues, I urge that the fastest way to analyse all such medical facilities and all such directors be removed as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u146	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! What I wanted to add to the duplicate is that at the moment there is a check under way, ordered by me, by the Internal Audit Unit at the Ministry of Health at the University Hospital "Alexandrovska" precisely on the occasion of these data submitted in relation to the concluded legal services contracts and a contract for media coverage. Once the verification has been completed, the relevant authorities will, of course, be referred to depending on the findings. With regard to the analysis you have said, this analysis is undoubtedly urgent. We have already begun to do such an analysis, and at its beginning we have established the imperfections of the Law that I mentioned. So obviously we have work to do in this direction as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u148	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Yordanka Kostadinova on the lack of a legal framework for validating medical standard for assisted reproduction and laying down the conditions and procedures for carrying out assisted reproduction activities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I appeal to you on the occasion of Ordinance No 28 of 20 June 2007 on assisted reproduction activities issued by the Minister of Health. Under the provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions and the Health Act it is this regulation that regulates the activities of assisted reproduction in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Regulation introduces the provisions of the current European legislation in the field of assisted reproduction. The above regulation was repealed by Decision No 4655 of 21 April 2020 in Case No 7771 of the Supreme Administrative Court of 2019 on the ground of infringement of administrative production rules in the adoption, issuance of the act and its subsequent amendments. It should be borne in mind that the repealed regulation approves the medical standard for assisted reproduction, regulates the activities of medical establishments which carry out assisted reproduction and provision, use and storage of ova, semen and zygotes, and ensures that the quality and safe medical service of the Bulgarian citizens is obtained. As of 31 October 2020, only two Member States of the European Union do not have a comprehensive legal framework regarding assisted reproduction. As a result of a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and due to subsequent inaction by the Ministry of Health for almost two years the Republic of Bulgaria has been lining up to these sad examples, which is, at the same time, a serious, serious and rude violation of the current Bulgarian and European legislation in this area. In this regard, my question to you is: at what stage is the preparation of a new regulation for assisted reproduction activities. What deadlines do you expect it to be published and published in the Official Journal of the European Union in order to define the activities of assisted reproduction, good medical practices in the field of assisted reproduction, and to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens when receiving this kind of medical service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kostadinova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In order to overcome the emptiness in the regulation established by the Decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of 2020, which you have cited, and in fulfilling the legal requirement laid down in the Health Act and the Law on Medical Institutions, for the issuance by the Minister of Health of a regulation relating to assisted reproduction, I have taken the necessary steps to draw up the draft regulation for assisted reproduction activities. I can assure you from the National Assembly's stands that there is only one Member State left without such a regulation, as the same project was adopted yesterday The normal act is, for the most part, drawn up by the Expert Council on Obstetrics and Gynecology, taking into account the opinion of the Executive Agency and the expertise of leading specialists in assisted reproduction in our country. The project provides for the work of medical institutions carrying out activities in this dynamically developing and practical area of assisted reproduction, a regulation is established for certain activities to which not so sensitive professionally engaged medical professionals are sensitive, but mostly the society as a whole because they have multi-spectrum dimensions involved in other areas of national legislation. The draft regulation on assisted reproduction activities together with the consultation on compliance with European law is sent to the Working Group 22 "................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Immediately after receiving this opinion, the draft regulation, which was adopted yesterday, as I said, by the management of the Ministry of Health, the motives and references to European law, will be published as soon as possible on the website of the Ministry of Health and, respectively, on the public consultation portal of the Council of Ministers for a 30-day discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u152	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a line? Here you go, Mrs. Kostadinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. I hope the Ordinance is uploaded for public consultation as soon as possible. I will remain an active observer of this issue and after a while I will invite you back here to share the initial results of this program. I hope that after your response from this tribune and after conversations in which I participate, more people will receive enough information to benefit from the Assisted Reproduction Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u154	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. The issue is from the National Representative Asen Baltov about the amounts set in the budget for the purchase of new vaccines against COVID-19 and their use during the first 60 days of the coalition government. Here you go, Mr. Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear Minister Serbenova, honourable MPs! Even in the negotiations for the formation of the quadruple coalition, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said the following: And later, when he was elected as such, he said that the goal was to inoculate over 300,000 people who had completed 65 years of age and will be granted one-time assistance of 75 leva. To this end, a large-scale vaccination campaign is envisaged, which will bring together experts from all areas of medicine. My question is this. We are witnessing a growing desire for the population to be vaccinated against COVID-19 and in this regard, please explain to us: what quantities of vaccines, regardless of the producer of the production mark, have been placed as the first, second and booster dose for the period from 15 December 2021 to 15 February 2022? What are the cabinet's intentions regarding the purchase of vaccines in 2022 by the different producers as a quantity? Those provided for in the budget, which we expect to be approved next week, we know is 267 million. And 219 thousand. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u156	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Here you are, Mrs. Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u157	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear Professor Baltov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! For the period 15 December 2021 725 971 doses of coronavirus vaccine were entered in the vaccination register against COVID-19. Doses are as follows: for first time use, first dose As regards the purchase of vaccines against COVID-19 in 2022 and the amount indicated by you, I inform you that the amount is fixed for payment of the quantities of the vaccine produced by Pfizer/BioNTech approved by Decision No 417 of 17 May 2021 of the Council of Ministers for 2022 of 7 million. 34,000. and 904 doses, and approved by Decision No 478 of 1 July 2021 of the Council of Ministers 10 thousand doses of the vaccine Valneva Austria. The vaccine produced by Pfizer/BioNTech for 2022 and 2023, i.e. for the following year, has been concluded by the European Commission on the basis of the mandate given to the Commission to conclude an Agreement on behalf of the Member States by means of the Agreement authorising the European Commission to propose to the participating Member States, on their behalf, prior arrangements for the purchase of vaccines with their producers to the Member States to obtain vaccines. It is certified by Law published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 71 of 2020, and has been validated by a final Commission decision. The Agreement shall be concluded on the basis of a negotiated procedure carried out by the European Commission without prior publication of procurement notices due to the need to urgently provide these additional doses of vaccines to deal with the pandemic within a reasonable period of time. The purchase agreement shall have the character of such under art. 4 of the Agreement by which the Commission is given a mandate to conclude on behalf of the participating States an Agreement on the purchase of vaccines and obliges the participating country to undertake to purchase the doses of vaccines that have been determined in accordance with the allocation made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u158	Mr. Baltov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear Professor Serbenova, thank you for the comprehensive information about the first, second and booster doses, but as I can see from the numbers, it is 2215 doses on a daily basis on average over the past 61 days of management of Petkov's office, if we average them as a first dose, that is, it is extremely insufficient if we wanted to have an increase in the campaign. Unfortunately, yesterday's data shows that we have over 105 dead Bulgarian citizens and 90% of the deceased are unvaccinated. That is, what was put in place as the beginning of a program, which, you see, would have taken us out of the pandemic and allowed us economic development to move forward, so far we do not see it being implemented. I hope you will really implement some program so that you can make the Bulgarian citizens become more vaccinated. You know that the parliamentary group and all colleagues from GERB-SDS have been vaccinated and are for vaccination. In no way do we want to say that we are against vaccination, but what is being done so far, we see no progress in the vaccination of the Bulgarian population. So far it's 30% with a full vaccination cycle and 10% of it has a booster dose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u160	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Mrs. Serbenova, you have the floor for the backrest and continue your exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear Professor Baltov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First, I will continue, as there is no way that the answer to such a question will be short, with the second part of the answer statement. According to the subject-matter of this agreement, on behalf of the participating Member States wishing to purchase the vaccine, 900 million doses are to be allocated. The Ministry of Health, in view of this much lower vaccination range that you mentioned, has taken action in a study, as I have already mentioned that these quantities bind us. We are exploring the opportunities for resale, including not only the donation of the quantities of vaccines to be delivered to the country in 2022. At the moment a redistribution has been made within the European Union to another Member State, France, about three million doses of those requested in Bulgaria. So these doses didn't arrive at all, we reassigned them before they arrived. The negotiations with Iran and Uganda are still under way for the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by the manufacturer Astra Zeneca, as you know that there was such a definite response in the public domain as regards this vaccine, which affected this decline that you mentioned. For the purpose of finalising the negotiations, cooperation is also expected from the European Commission. Yesterday I had a conversation with the Health Commissioner, who declared and her support was underway. In terms of what is my assessment, is the vaccination coverage extremely inadequate? Of course it's not enough. This has its many aspects, I would say, reasons, including that, at the very beginning of the pandemic, there should have been an adequate campaign that was open and accessible to people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Serbenova. This issue has run out of questions for Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. Thank you for your participation. We move on to the next series of questions to the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Ivan Ivanov. The first question he will answer is a question from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev concerning problems with the recovery of state aid in the replacements of forests. Here you are, Mrs. Stratieva, to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u163	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, our question is related to one of the biggest thefts that took place during the transition, worth 83 million. BGN, which the state needs to recover from the replacements of forests. A decision of the European Commission 2014 on this scheme decided that Bulgaria should recover the State aid under the scheme. Almost all acts of the Ministry of Agriculture for the establishment of public government claims were appealed by private beneficiaries due to irregularities in the market valuations carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture of the replaced properties. In order to clarify the necessary legislative measures to address the problem of recovery of State aid from forest exchanges, please respond: at what stage are judicial practices, in particular what is the number of cases lost and won by the State? The reasons for the repealed acts, what is the number of proposals for the cancellation of contracts for the replacement and the number of contracts broken down? As in what deadlines will the Ministry of Agriculture prepare a new methodology and assign new market assessments to the replaced forests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, Mr. Dunchev, in answer to your question, I answer you the following: the total number of contracts for the replacement of land properties assessed by Agrolesproekt is 132. Following the application of the methodology laid down by Recital 173 of the European Commission Decision of 5 September 2014 on the aid scheme SA.26212 and SA.26217 the provision of forest replacement contracts concluded between the State and private persons received a positive value of State aid for 103 contracts. A total of 98 acts were issued for the establishment of public government claims from the end of 2019 to 2020. Of these 98 acts, first, 21 were sent to the National Revenue Agency; 58 were pending legal proceedings; 10 were paid and five agreements were concluded. Seven of the legal proceedings initiated ended with decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court in force as a cassation instance. In the seven legal proceedings, the contested acts establishing public state actions were annulled by a decision of the court and four of the files were returned to the administrative authority for issuing new documents for the establishment of public government taking, subject to the instructions of the cassation court. The final decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court are respectively from 20 April 2021; 25 June 2021; 29 June 2021; 1 July 2021; 23 July 2021 and 10 November 2021. I can also provide you with, if you wish, a reference to the cases which have been concluded by such a decision of the Court. The main reason for the annulment of the acts by the court is the finding that the valuations produced by the Agroles project Ltd., which served as a basis for determining the amount of State aid, were increased because in the valuation reports other than data on forest properties were also used data on agricultural land. In the case of experts drawn up by experts in judicial proceedings, the assessments are significantly lower. The price determination is significantly hampered by the lack of a real forest property market, on the one hand, on the other, by the fact that many of the signed transactions used as analogues are recognised at prices close to tax valuations. At the same time, the persons concerned are obliged to apply § 1a, i.e. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the State Property Act, which obliges property persons and the court to use as market analogues entered transactions. Of the five other agreements concluded, one was concluded before the expiry of the act establishing a public claim and the other four were reached in the course of the legal proceedings. The procedural representatives have informed the applicants of the pending proceedings of the possibility to reach agreement and conclude agreements. At present, two of the pending proceedings have been made by the applicants for the conclusion of out-of-court agreements. With regard to the question of drawing up a new methodology to quantify the specific amount of State aid, I point out that drawing up such a methodology is not necessary. In recital 173 to the European Commission Decision, which is mandatory for the Member State, the methodology to be applied is set out in its entirety. With regard to the issue of assigning the administrative authority to new assessments, I inform you that a procedure for selecting an independent valuer is being prepared in relation to the decisions entering into force, which will already be announced and completed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u167	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, thank you for all your information. I would like to ask, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, are you going to assign this procedure to the selection of an independent contractor, or how, and are you providing for legislative texts in the Forests Act related to the restructuring of the Forest Executive Agency as the State Forest Agency of the Council of Ministers, for breaking up the euros? Because many of the beneficiaries insist on returning the state forests and returning the private forests because they do not want to participate in such wicked schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u168	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in for the back of the line and perhaps answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, yes, the choice of an independent valuer should be in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. We are currently preparing the documentation because obviously the award of a company that is part of the system of the Ministry of Agriculture has not resulted in the necessary result and therefore all these cases that we have been commenting on. Under the coalition agreement, the necessary changes are being prepared, i.e. they are being prepared and I believe they will soon enter the Chamber for discussion, regarding the exit of the Forest Executive Agency from the Ministry of Agriculture and their exit as an independent body. During the discussion of the Bill in the Chamber and in the relevant committees, the necessary proposals can be made by the MPs in particular to make changes that you believe would lead to the annulment of such acts that have passed in the past and have brought bad glory to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There has been a question from the MP Petar Petrov about the need for urgent measures to repair the dam of the Dam. The issue is postponed due to Mr. Petrov's absence, as well as the first question to Minister Yanev, also by Mr. Petrov, is postponed. The question of Blagovest Kirilov regarding the termination of an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act is also postponed. The matter is addressed to the Minister of Electronic Governance. So it's going to be a little shorter for our hearing today. We move on to a question from the National Representative Daniel Petrov concerning the separation of the Forest Agency from the Ministry of Agriculture as an independent office of direct submission to the Council of Ministers. Mr. Petrov, you have an opportunity to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, at the end of the year 2021 a coalition agreement was signed for joint management of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2021 - 2025, where Annex No 7 provides for the establishment of an independent forestry office of the State Forest Executive Agency under direct subordination of the Council of Ministers. By Decision No 892 of 30 December 2021 to take action to prepare structural and other changes to the central administration of the executive power, the Council of Ministers decided that the Executive Forest Agency and other agencies should be transferred to the Council of Ministers. Confirmation of reform of the new forestry office is also foreseen according to the vision for Bulgaria. From 2019 sustainable development of forestry of BSP, where the establishment of a state agency is laid down to ensure sustainable and long-term policy for the development of the forest sector. The separation of a forest office as an independent one is also enshrined in the program of the Political Party.There is such a people, namely administrative reform in the sector in order to separate business and control activities, separation of the Forest Executive Agency from the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Program of Coalition "Democratic Bulgaria" for the sector "Gorhi" predicts a change of the structure of management, management and conservation of forests. Forest conservation officers have no place in the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. Therefore, my question to you is as follows: is there a delay in the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the separation of the Executive Forest Agency in the implementation of Council of Ministers Decision No 892 of 30 December 2021, is it expected to delay and fail to comply with this decision in this part and with the party and coalition commitments made to the voters in this direction? Please give me an oral answer to this question within the framework of parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u172	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, first of all I am glad that you have been able to read "Vision for Bulgaria" which is good. So the document is representative enough, but let's get to the point. The forestry Executive Agency is a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Agriculture, assisting the same in the implementation of state policy in the forestry and hunting sector and carrying out control functions under the current regulations. Pursuant to Decision No 892 of 30 December 2021, the Forest Executive Agency is to be transferred to the Council of Ministers. The head of the new administrative structure will be responsible for implementing policies in the forestry and hunting sector and will coordinate control functions of the specialised administration. The transition of policies and functions from the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture to the Administrative Structure of the Council of Ministers, including a change in the name of the Executive Agency for Forests and the Executive Director's position, cannot take place without amendments to the Law on Forests, the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game and other special laws, as the powers of functional competence are changed. By Decision No 892 of the Council of Ministers to take action to prepare structural and other changes in the central administration of the executive power by my Order No 09-26 of 13 January 2022, a working group was established with the task of drawing up the necessary amendments to the regulations regarding the transition of the Forest Executive Agency to the Council of Ministers. The draft law amending and supplementing the Forest Act was drawn up on 28 January 2022 and was sent on the same date to the Council of Ministers, meeting the deadline set out in Decision No 892. Under the bill, there will be public consultations under the order of art. 26, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on Regulatory Acts and Coordination in the Order of Art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. With the adoption of this bill, the powers of the Minister of Agriculture and the functions of the specialized administration of the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the forestry and hunting sectors will be refined and the control functions of the Executive Forest Agency will be transferred to the administrative structure of the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Agriculture will continue to exercise the State's right of ownership in respect of land properties in forest areas, to exercise the State's ownership rights in state enterprises and to represent the State before the court in cases relating to the forestry territories of State ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've got a line. Thank you. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva about the destroyed corrected sections of the river Places on the territory of Blagoevgrad region. Mrs. Vassileva, if you'd like to make your point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, my question is related to damaged corrected sections of the river Places on the territory of Blagoevgrad district. As a result of the high waters in January and February 2021 there were destroyed corrected sections of the river Places of the territories of the village of Hvostoyane, the municipality of Garmen, and the town of Hadjidimovo in Blagoevgrad district. "Irrigation systems" EAD performs emergency rescue and emergency work under Chapter Three, Section II of the Rules of Organization and the activities of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers in these sections. The urgent rescue and emergency works are filled with the use of external performers....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to these contracts "Irrigation systems" EAD, branch "Struma " Places, performs control over the execution of rescue and emergency services. The sites were adopted by Construction Act 15 of 29 January 2021, with three of the sites being implemented by the Astroy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Despite the heavy financial situation, five of the six sites were paid out as early as 16 June 2021. To this end, as the branch of Struma has no funds required, such funds are transferred to it by the branch of Maritsa at the amount of 1 million. $241,000. And BGN 934. with VAT. In accordance with art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 377 of 8 November 2021 and Part Two of Annex to this Decision. 1 of Protocol No 14 to the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers the funds in question have been allocated. The warranty period for the rescue and emergency work carried out on each site shall be eight years. Floods and high waters in the Loss River in December 2021 have compromised the completed rescue and emergency operations of four of the six sites. According to preliminary estimates, the total value of the damage amounts to 143 thousand. BGN 678. with VAT, but the actual costs will be much more, as the calculation is based on unit prices from January 2021. The performers "Astroy" Ltd. and "Prestige Business 93" Ltd. are notified of taking action to recover the damage caused by the correction of the river Places in their implemented sites according to the warranty deadlines. But as far as we have information, at least that was the signal from our voters, these companies have not yet fulfilled their commitments under the contract to restore the compromised sections. My question is: what are the concrete actions taken for the performers "Astroy" Ltd. and "Prestige Business 93" Ltd. and what are the deadlines for the implementation of the damages, as well as will you take measures for an overall revision of the units "Struma "Struma" and "Irrigation systems" EAD in relation to the contracts they have concluded and their implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, Order No 377 of 8 November 2021 provided funds to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests under the budget programme Fifty-fifty thousand. BGN 381. with VAT. In order to carry out these activities by the Irritation Systems, contracts have been concluded under which the activities carried out by the contractors under the contracts have a guarantee period of eight years. In December 2021, as you have shared, this is the truth, and the damage has been done to four out of five assets in January 2021, for which 1 million facilities have been paid off. Three hundred and BGN 477. with VAT. On the part of the "Irrigation systems', notification letters have been sent to the contractors for emergency repairs, the companies you quoted, about the need to act in accordance with the clauses of the contracts concluded to remedy the damage in the areas covered in December 2021, in so far as they fall within the agreed guarantee period. No action has been taken by the contractors to address the damage caused and to restore the compromised areas and facilities to prevent the harmful effects of water, as set out in the contracts concluded between the Irrigation Systems and the companies. On the part of the company and at the request of the Minister, cases have been brought, and the Ministry of Agriculture has called on the authorized state bodies, I mean the Ministry of Interior, the DANS and so on, all the competent authorities, to take action in jurisdiction from the relevant economic entities to be held responsible for their inaction and failure to comply with contractual commitments. On the basis of a provision of art. 10, para. 1, t. 2a of the Water Act, the Minister of Agriculture implements state policy related to operations, construction, reconstruction and modernisation of facilities designed to protect against the harmful effects of water, outside the boundaries of settlements. These commitments are made through the commitments concluded on the basis of Paragraph 4a. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Water Act Contract No РД 50-23/05.04.2019 with Funds for the implementation of these activities shall be planned and provided in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and shall be provided to The facilities to protect against the harmful effects of the waters provided for the management of the Ministry of Agriculture are located throughout the country and are hundreds of thousands of kilometers. These facilities are dikes, river corrections, drainage channels. Annually spent by "Irrigation systems" means for the performance of the public service to protect against the harmful effects of water shall not exceed the ex post equivalent of 15 million. lv. Only carrying out emergency and rehabilitation work is a temporary solution. I would like to emphasise that if actions are not taken and funds are provided to clean river beds, which is a major part of the prevention of water damage and is a major obligation of mayors and district managers under the Water Act, such accidents in the future will be an extremely common phenomenon. These actions cannot be carried out only by the Irrigation Systems (Irrigation Systems) within the territories assigned to them, as the legislator has provided for, because both funds and actions are insufficient. According to indicative calculations made by the company only for damage to the facilities for Blagoevgrad district and Kyustendil district in December 2021, the funds necessary for their recovery and entry into operation are 27 million with VAT, which do not include the funds necessary for cleaning river beds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Vassileva, you have the opportunity to reply. You don't want to. This exhausted the questions to the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Thanks for being a part of this. Moving on to the next series of questions. In fact, this is a question to the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozhidar Bojanov. He will answer Nikola Dimitrov's question about the location of the servers of the Council of Ministers and each of the ministries of Bulgaria. The question to Radostin Vassilev will be postponed as he travels from the countryside, we will call Mr. Boyko Rashkov, and then we will continue in the established order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u179	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, where are the servers of the Council of Ministers and each of the ministries of Bulgaria located? Please answer me this question. The location of the servers of key departments of Bulgaria is extremely important. If they are located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, what is the security level for access to them? If they are located outside our country, how is their security guaranteed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u180	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u181	Dear MPs, the servers of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Council of Ministers, the ministries that contain the important systems, including the websites of the departments, are located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The level of security depends on the level of risk for the relevant system. Critical key systems, for example in the Registry Agency, in the Ministry of Interior, in the Ministry of Finance for our analysis have a satisfactory level of security, of course, in small municipalities and so on the level is lower, but with the powers that you voted for the Minister of Electronic Governance this week, we are starting active checks to raise this level. In this regard, however, I would like to supplement my response with the commitment to continue this policy, namely the server infrastructure, the hardware infrastructure to be in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Not just that, but we're starting to migrate to the state cloud. The state cloud has several locations, they are not public, but the idea is to consolidate all or at least the maximum amount of hardware resources in the state cloud, as there we can provide centralised protection services from DDoS attack, for example, a high level of cybersecurity. Under the Law on Electronic Management, a register of information resources is also maintained where all servers are to be described and not only the entire communication infrastructure owned by the State. We are currently starting an audit of the contents of this register and its enrichment, because it is important that the state centrally knows its infrastructure in detail and not just the general information that has previously been available. This analysis has started, it will be reflected in the Annual Information Resources Analysis, which has so far prepared the State Agency for Electronic Governance, from now on it will be prepared by the Minister of Electronic Governance. And again I would like to stress, in all technical assignments we respect the requirement that things happen in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. We realize that this principle is important and we will abide by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, do you have a line? No. Thank you. That concludes the questions to the Minister of Electronic Governance. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Tourism Mr. Hristo Prodanov. The first question he will answer is from the National Representative Ivaylo Hristov on the programme for support 60/40 to the tourism industry and checks for correct payment of the amounts to employers' employees. Mr. Hristov, you have a chance to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u183	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The companies from the tourism industry received serious compensation and appeared as one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Recovery Program. At the same time we received information about incorrect treatment by many employers under the 60/40 Programme. A contract is signed with the Ministry, after which employees are obliged to sign an annex for minimum wage. My question concerns: what is the mechanism under which the controls on aid granted in the field of tourism are carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u184	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the question is not exactly formulated as asked in writing as form. I might have found some other information about what you put up for some sort of distribution in uncontrolled ways. First of all, I want you to be aware that the Ministry of Tourism does not have a tillage to the distribution of aid 60/40, there are the competent authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy through the Employment Agency. Otherwise, I will tell you the information I have collected for you in relation to what you have asked as an initial model of the question. According to information from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute, the reserved jobs from 1 January to 30 June are 207 thousand. 407, the allocation is 723,4 million. BGN, during the period from 1 July to 31 December 2021 150 thousand were preserved. 926 jobs, and the money spent on this is 324.7 million. lv. The four sectors with the largest share of the funds paid for the co-processing industry " 41,6%, hotel and restaurant services ".14,6%, trade, repair of cars and motorcycles... 10,5%, transport, storage and areas................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In these sectors, nearly 82% of all reserved jobs are concentrated and nearly 70% of the employers who have participated in the project in at least one month have applied for this measure. About 13,000 are supported in these spheres. Employers to keep their staff and continue to work. Otherwise, what you said at the beginning of your exhibition of asking the question that the tourism sector was really most affected, yes, I agree, that was indeed the case, and that is why the representatives of the tourist business have the highest percentage of help from what they have received, which is normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give you the floor for a reply, Dr. Hristov, just one more time to clarify that the question to Radostin Vassilev is not postponed, but simply changes the seats of the ministers. After Minister Prodanov will be responsible Minister Boyko Rashkov and after him Minister Radostin Vassilev. Here you go, Dr. Hristov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u187	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. With delay, I realized that it is not in your field, which I apologize for and will also address this question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because it turns out that the Bulgarian is very creative when he has to screw up in some way, because in this case the employees are mostly fucked up. That's... how can I say that? I'm speechless. That's what they call it in the war conditions of marauding. Take your employee and spend it. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to and ask the other mechanisms in which the Ministry of Tourism is connected, also some information is received about such connected companies that pass on turnovers, and for a number of other such things, and please create a mechanism in the Ministry of Tourism to control the funds given, because you are present at the committees when we are literally fighting for every penny, and it is not fair what is happening to people. We also get the impression that... and my next question is probably going to be that small businesses, I mean family hotels, family restaurants, remain neglected in this whole system because they don't have the administrative capacity to get the aid, and it still comes down to the big ones, which in this case take most of the pie, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u188	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, first of all, what you said that you have information about existing violations in relation to the relationship between employer and worker, this really is a crime, there is no need to comment at all, so I can also make a personal commitment to you, if you have such information, also help if there are such violations and abuses, as I said, directly crimes, to clarify them, because indeed the measure is for keeping jobs, so it is both to help employers, and also to help workers in particular. Regarding the second part of the question you asked me, there can be no such abuse. Currently, we are administering two measures that are for assistance - one is 6 million, which is for tour operators to be able to repay the obligations they have to their customers, you know, as a result of the impact of the crisis, the closure of the market, flights and everything else. The other measure is 30 million, which is for representatives of the tourism industry to support the affected tourism business, as you said at the beginning of the first question that tourism was indeed the most affected business. All this information, all that is filled out as an application and as a procedure, is entirely electronically, extremely transparent, and everyone can check. What you said about the big ones being tolerated at the expense of the little ones is not true. It doesn't matter who's big, who's small. Here, the main criterion is the turnover that was registered in the year in which year and according to which turnover it registered and respectively what taxes it paid to the treasury, proportionately distributes the entire amount of 30 million. So it doesn't matter who's big or who's small. Everything is transparent, electronically. And by the way, the application because I have feedback. The application under this measure is extremely easy. This is the opinion of the applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Rositsa Kirova on the development of balneo- and healing tourism in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Kirova, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers gentlemen, colleagues! My question is in the field of tourism and is not related to the Social Ministry. It's based on the following. I believe that tourism is a major sector for the development of the Bulgarian economy and gives livelihood to a large number of Bulgarian citizens, and in recent years this is one of the most affected industries because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bulgaria is extremely rich in mineral springs with healing properties, much of which have been unused so far. Mr. Minister, you have requested that you will work for the development of both sea and winter and balneo-tourism. You also bet on the development of adventure tourism. I hope you continue to develop rural tourism, which already has foundations in Bulgaria. My question is related to the development of balneo and healing tourism and the use of Bulgarian medicinal mineral waters so that this natural resource can be turned into a major engine for the development of the regions by creating employment and livelihood. In economically underdeveloped and peripheral regions, such as Vidin, this would create an opportunity to provide a year-round tourist service and could be combined with cultural and historical tourism. In this regard, I would like to know: what is the specific policy your ministry provides for; what is your concept of the development of balneo and healing tourism; what are your analyses of the prospects and benefits for this type of tourism; would you take an initiative to build a new network and develop existing infrastructure related to the healing and mineral springs in the various regions of Bulgaria? I believe that the potential of this natural resource has not been used enough. The development of new mineral springs will boost the economic development of the regions, especially if the Ministry of Tourism is committed to conducting an effective policy related to both marketing and advertising of this product and supporting investment in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kirova, you have almost guessed the issue concerning the Ministry of Tourism, but also two other ministries. These are the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Water, because the use and development of health tourism should be in extremely close cooperation with the Ministry of Health in relation to the health prevention vouchers we offer and also in relation to the scientific capacity it has in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Water, because it manages and manages mineral deposits in Bulgaria. You are indeed right that it directly concerns tourism as a development of this sector. You are extremely right that Bulgaria is second in Europe according to the number of mineral springs we have about 600 mineral springs, some open, newly discovered and poorly developed. We are second in Europe after Iceland by such a resource. So, indeed, my ministry and our coalition believe that extremely great potential has the development of this type of tourism, and not only because it can contribute to the year-round tourist season, that is, Bulgaria in four seasons, but because it is not affected by weather and climate conditions. Also because it is extremely useful in terms of improving people's lives and health, especially in the post-coding situation that I suppose is coming. An Advisory Council for the Development of Health Tourism is about to be formed, which is an operational working group with representatives from the ministries I mentioned to you at the beginning, plus representatives from the coalition partners. The efforts of the Ministry of Tourism for the Development of Health Tourism will be directed in several directions: creating and imposing Bulgaria's image as a destination for health tourism, because, as I said, we have all the natural resources for this; introducing health prevention vouchers; positioning Bulgaria as a destination for health tourism; balanced and integrated development of health tourism at regional level, what you said because, for example, your region, from which you are a people's representative, has a serious potential to develop this tourism; creating a discussion platform and an online portal for coordination of measures with economic actors in the designated areas. In this way, the state can help make things easier and not have so much bureaucracy about what is envisaged as building. Something else that is important and that lies ahead in the Health Tourism Development Plan is a concrete measure for increasing the efficiency of resource management. Specific activities are planned to be implemented and the aim is to formulate and propose a new infrastructure to these sites to serve exactly the weakly used or newly discovered sources of mineral water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u194	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u195	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the comprehensive answer that gives me hope that, despite the fact that this is a matter of competence, as you said, not only the Ministry of Tourism, there will be politics in this direction. I will be waiting to see a clear and concrete programme of measures with regard to the disclosure of mineral springs and further development of existing infrastructure, as well as a proposal for a balanced development on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with regard to this balneological resource that we have. Because outside the health crisis we are in rather serious, I would say, in some form of price and economic crisis, and the development of healing tourism could enable literally economic revival of the regions. This is a resource that Bulgaria has, a resource that is not sufficiently developed, and we could use on the international stage as an additional tool for attracting not only tourists, but also for attracting a look at Bulgaria. I'll look forward to your actions in this direction. I hope that they will be very clearly described with a time frame and a timetable for implementation of the activities. I hope that in this regard all municipalities in Bulgaria and the districts will cooperate and raise their questions. They know best what are the resources available to them and what assistance they need from the state. One more thing. I have heard that there are health measures at stake in the Infrastructure Recovery and Development Plan. I hope you remember what you told me. When you start applying for these measures under the Plan, the development of the infrastructure related to the healing springs should also be included, because it is the only way we can develop them and it is the only way to give them meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u197	Dear Mrs. Kirova, first of all, there is no point in remembering what I told you because it is written in our coalition agreement, so we read and perform what we have undertaken as a commitment. In connection with your call for direct work to include different municipalities and districts, because each individual is specific. One is the potential of Black Sea municipalities, another is the potential of mountain municipalities, another is the potential of your municipality, which has the potential for development of cultural, health and cultural and historical tourism. In addition to these institutions, which we will include in the development of this plan and this strategy, we have a good desire from the Association of Municipalities and their representatives mayors to also cooperate, so that what has been done and what has been pledged to be the most effective and best for implementation. Regarding when it will be scheduled and programmed, I hope that in the next two or three months this will happen. I'm gonna do everything I can to make this really happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u198	Thank you, Minister Prodanov. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next question will be to Minister Boyko Rashkov of the National Representative Branimir Balachev concerning an order of the Minister of the Interior during the period 10 November 2021. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, you have three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is therefore a question, because I want to cover the activities of the Ministry of Interior as a power ministry and the danger that I and the voters of the Varna Election Region have, and I suppose that not only the Varna Election Region, that during electoral campaigns the Ministry of Interior, which, as I said, is a power ministry and has a large volume of powers, both legal and mental, to influence the Bulgarian citizens, with a view to fulfilling the functions otherwise assigned to it, are used to exert political pressure on certain political forces, which I believe is a rude violation of fundamental constitutional decrees, and hence the relevant laws in the Penal Code, in the Election Code and so on. In order not to be naked, I would just like to remind you that you, Mr. Minister, as a good lawyer and colleague of ours, you know, but I say it for the other colleagues in art. 11 of the Constitution is explicitly stated that the political life of the Bulgarian state has the principle of pluralism. This, translated into Bulgarian, means that any impact on a political party registered under the Law in any form of it by any action, by the actions of its sympathizers, members and so on, are unlawful. A little further down in this same text in para. 3 of the Constitution writes this is related to the questions I then ask you that any political party registered under the relevant law has the right to assist in legal forms, to form and express citizens' opinions, that is, to assist them in exercising their powers to vote, to be elected, to decide who to choose and so on. Since your actions on 11 November 2021 were carried out and illegal searches in my opinion, I would like to remind you of art. 30, para. 2, who says that no one can be searched, examined and any other investigative action without having the appropriate permission. In the end, I will also remind Art. 31, para. 3 of the Constitution, which says, including me, and you, that everyone is innocent until a sentence is brought into force in respect of a crime committed by him. What were the facts on November 11th? On November 11th, heavily armed police officers over 1000, and gendarmes were scattered across the territory of Varna region. A large entry into the town halls and municipalities of Varna region began, which, as everyone knows, are led by figures who are members or sympathizers of the political party GERB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I will only quote: these are the town halls in Bluskovo, Bozveliysko, Gradinarovo, Valchi dol, and certain people were forced by force, such as Zlatinka Dimitrova, a mayor's deputy in the village of Metlicina, Nelly Letifova, Mayor of Brestak City Hall, Meliha Alieva, city councillor, note that in order not to participate in the purchase of votes and agitation, which is in violation of the statement just moments ago by me a constitutional text. As a result of these actions, many personal items have been seized, which to this day have not yet been returned to their owners. By the way, more than three months have passed since November 11th. In this regard, I ask the following questions. Mr. Minister, are there cases cited by the previous period in the Ministry of Interior's Directorate for Crimes under Chapter Three, Section 3 of the Criminal Code, I am talking about crimes that are against the political system; if there is, what is their final act of the prosecution and what have they ended with? The sub-questions I am asking you in this regard are: is there any formed on the basis of these shares I am talking about the shares on November 11th and the following days...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u200	Mr. Balachev, we're almost two minutes out of time. Please end it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u201	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...trial proceedings and, if there is, by which text of the law and are there persons attracted to criminal liability? Are there any court-martialed and convicted persons? If there are violations or crimes detected and if there are no violations and crimes are identified......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u202	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Balachev, from your question, I can make a general statement according to your understanding of the Constitution and the laws in the country, when someone commits an act declared in the Penal Code of Crime so as not to affect anyone's rights, including political ones, no one has the right to investigate. That sounded right out of the stands from you. I don't think you, when you studied law, because I know you're a Varna lawyer, someone taught you that way. I don't think we should speculate on the Constitution, because where the Constitution is in charge. 2 regulates the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizen, of man, and when defending these fundamental rights, always says "unless otherwise provided in the law." So, if it protects the Constitution, the fundamental right not to have someone under review, search and so on, it provides opportunities. If this is not foreseen in the law, no one can carry out such an offence. Don't forget that. You're a lawyer, you're a fellow lawyer. Because it turns out that all the officials of the Ministry of Interior around the elections have set out to commit crimes. Don't insult the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Today you declare them officers who commit crimes tomorrow, if you come to power, you will ask them to pursue criminals, investigate and so forth. In the present case, your question concerns Chapter 3 of the Criminal Code under the heading "Crimes against citizens' political rights." There is a punishment for anyone who, in order to make my speech more popular, buys, respectively sells votes, influences by property benefits and otherwise, including by threatening, any voter not to exercise his or her selective right or to exercise in favour of a particular party that affects, a political party. This is a crime that has been declared, which exists in our Criminal Code, and I would say that, in your logic, in the case of evidence or data in this direction, the employees of the Ministry of Interior cannot carry out, take appropriate investigative action, thereby misleading both the Chamber and all citizens who are watching on television. In addition, remember, I will remind you, although you are a colleague, and the fact that under the laws of the country, exactly this Chapter 3 of the Penal Code, the prosecution also has powers in the pretrial period. It may request, and only it, that special means of intelligence be used and implemented by the competent court. Colleague Balachev, do you not cancel with your speech and question today here and the powers of the prosecution? And if the materials enter the competent court, colleague Balachev, and the court finds that all signs of the compositions of the crimes under Chapter 3 have been fulfilled, he will condemn the children. Or are you against it? Specifically on your question: whether there have been proceedings for registered case files and so on in Varna judicial district. Yes, there is. There are, and if someone continues to spend money to buy votes, such cases will be in the future. I assure you of that! No one will stop investigating the likes of your speeches in plenary. In accordance with an order of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior on the territory of the whole country, a specialized police operation was carried out in Varna to establish, prevent, disclose and document prepared, respectively committed criminal activity under art. 167, 169 of the Penal Code. In the period 10 November 18 in Varna and the structural units were carried out checks on 26 signals. Some of these signals have been received from other services in our country, that is to say, the information is with another source, related to and received information about crime being prepared or committed against citizens' political rights. The collected preliminary materials are reported to the Prosecutor's Office in Varna and the respective territorial units in Devnya and Provadia. For 6 of these cases pre-trial proceedings have been initiated. Will you question the prosecution's decisions, colleague Balachev? For the rest, decrees have been issued according to the order of art. 213, para. 1 of the PPC, i.e. denied the formation of pre-trial proceedings. None of the Ministry of Interior services in Varna has attacked the prosecution's act, or at least I have no such information. Secondly, if there are any pre-trial proceedings formed on the basis of these shares, I have already answered. Yes, there is. So what's the effect of this, or what did these investigations end up doing? One legal proceedings contained data which gave the Sofia City Prosecutor's office grounds to request the proceedings and it was sent there by jurisdiction. It's probably a person with immunity. [[the President signals that the speaking time has expired]] And with cases like this... Is the time running out, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u204	Yeah, a minute and a little more. If you want, finish the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u205	No, I'll keep the rules. Thank you for the time being.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Balachev, come in for the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u207	Dear Mr. Rashkov, I have graduated from Sofia University in about the years in which you have completed it, and I have been taught lights in Bulgarian law. So much for education and knowledge of laws. Regarding the answer to my questions. I said that if you fail to prove any crime committed under this Chapter III of the Law, what will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior for causing this chaos that occurred on 11 November 2021? That's where my question comes from: if there isn't, and you haven't answered me, but I know, because I have prepared myself before I ask these questions to you that there is no criminal liability, three months after all the deadlines have expired. 234 of the PPC for pre-trial proceedings, and that 20 of your files were suspended due to lack of crime and you did not deny that at the moment. But I ask: there is not a single person attracted three months after your action to criminal liability, which means there is not enough data to press charges on the one hand. And on the other hand, at the end of the day, I said and quoted the Constitution that everyone we believe committed a crime is innocent until proven guilty. I will apologize to you as soon as you establish to me that GERB or anyone on the territory of Varna region has purchased votes and that there is an effective verdict. That's what he can do. And from here, if this thing doesn't happen, it comes to your responsibility under the Ministry of Interior Act, and that is why I have asked you if you are ready and your employees, because you have the right to regression, if someone has misled you and caused this action, to seek criminal responsibility, because the people who were stressed were people who had not entered the police at all and were stressed and said: but should we deny whether we will vote for GERB or not? I was there and I know what your employees did. That's the question. The question is, are there people involved and are there convicts? If not, it's your fault. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u208	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer. You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand the pathos of colleague Balachev, he is chosen from this region there. To continue with my exposure. How many minutes do I have, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u210	Three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u211	Two pre-trial proceedings were terminated by decree of 6 January and 10 January 2021 and three pre-trial proceedings were pending, colleague Balachev, do not rush to the wind to run. They are hanging, if tomorrow an indictment is filed in court and the court pronounces with a conviction, which, let us say, has pronounced the Haskovo Court at the present time, there are also other places, colleague Balachev, and Montana, and elsewhere, take an interest, then how will you react? We won't need excuses later, colleague Balachev. You are undermining the prestige of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. To be shorter, I won't be able to handle the three minutes, to expose everything I've prepared to tell you. But the many of these six proceedings, which have been initiated, are under the control of the prosecution, not you, and I do not control this issue, but the unit of the independent judiciary, colleague Balachev. You are also a lawyer, and you know that you, in front of these authorities, only make demands and wait for the decision of these authorities. The Minister of Interior also obeys the prosecution, its decisions. Some of these cases, we said one was sent to the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office at her request, we have no information on what happened to this pre-trial proceedings. Others have concluded with the prosecution's refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings and we, of course, accept the act of the prosecution. I repeat, we have not attacked these decisions of the prosecution. There are two pending pre-trial proceedings, and I would like to remind you of something else that, yes, it is true, you are well served with constitutional texts, only you read them as the devil's gospel. There in art. 30, open your Constitution, I will now open to read to you art. 30 What He Says in para. 2: No one shall be detained, subjected to a review, search or other violation of his privacy... except under the terms and conditions of the Law... According to your logic, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution, and the court, of course, must not reach for the freedom of any person, even if he has committed even the most serious crime that cannot be said from the stand of parliament. So some of the information that has been used to initiate criminal proceedings in its first phase is on a signal from the State Agency "National Security" and here is the signal. Here, a colleague, there are several dozen people who, according to a report from this office, have only dealt with this, that is all they have done. Only by buying votes for the benefit of a political party and this political party is sitting around you. GERB is called this political party! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u212	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u214	Colleagues, not from a place, please. Mr. Balachev has the right to take an attitude. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, you have a say in the matter. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u215	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! It's obviously a very long argument, and we're not going to have it like this. I wanted specific data and I say: If you find out because you are the originator, what was the signal? Such operational signals in which someone in the bathroom told me something, but I was soaped and I didn't understand who it was, and I don't accept them, and you as a former investigator and head of the Investigation Service hardly accepted them at the time because they were ineligible such signals without being able to identify the source. This, one. Secondly, because you quoted that you can and are trying to say that we are protecting those who have committed a crime because they cannot be subject to search, examination and so on. That's not true. I'm protecting these people because when they went to them, they had neither the court's permission, because it was given by the court on the basis of applications that you made. You don't have a single preliminary act regarding your searches, so I'm saying this is wrong. And when I spoke of your responsibility, I meant the provision of art. 167 where it is explicitly stated that who, by threatening or otherwise preventing the exercise of electoral rights, if he is an official, is punished by imprisonment from 2 to 7 years. Therefore, I say: I will wait patiently, even though all the deadlines of the PPC have passed, these pre-trial proceedings, and if you had evidence of this, these cases should be in court, and I say that there is no criminal liability involved. So you don't even have evidence under art. 219 of the PPC, so you can press charges against someone, let alone put them in court. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u216	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. For the procedure Prof. Angelov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to stop Minister Rashkov's petitions when he is trying to teach from the parliamentary platform. We're not his students here. I understand that he lacks this, but let him have a little more patience, just a little bit more patience, and he will very soon experience the same pleasure of meeting his students at the university as a lecturer and not as a minister. Secondly, I ask you to stop Minister Rashkov's petitions when he is trying to ask questions from the parliamentary tribune to MPs. He's here as a minister to answer questions. Probably still dreaming of his unfulfilled mandate as Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u218	Mr. Angelov, if you please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u219	No, I don't like anything. I'm just mentioning facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u220	You're in the same rhetoric, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u221	I mention facts, Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, I ask you very much to stop Minister Rashkov's petitions when he allows himself to use a edifying tone on the MPs in this Chamber; to know well the laws and Constitution of the country which it gives to the MPs. Fourth, I ask you very much when Minister Rashkov tries to use censorship and to say which MP can speak from the parliamentary tribune and what he cannot speak, let him remember that this is a past time when he was an investigator. It's 2022, and we have nothing to do with those dark-blown communist times. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u222	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I believe that the discussion was heated on both sides, so Mr. Balachev could have done this procedure if he thought it was coming out of the good tone. I call on everyone to show mutual respect, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u223	You had to do it. You should have done it, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u224	Well, I had to do it to your colleague Mr. Balachev, as there were mutual attacks and accusations from one side to the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u225	Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u226	Because I allowed Mr. Angelov to complete the debate, and I think it was within the good language. The next question is from the National Representative Angel Georgiev on a discriminatory requirement by the Border Police for the presentation of valid documents for vaccination or illness as a mandatory condition for participation in a competition for the appointment of a state service in the Regional Directorate of Border Police. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Rashkov! In connection with the conduct of a competition for the appointment of a state service in the Regional Directorate of Border Police (Smolyan), in holiday junior executive posts requiring compulsory initial professional training, a discriminatory requirement by the Border Police (Smolyan) is introduced with a protocol to present valid documents for vaccination or illness as a mandatory condition for participation in the competition. The reasons for this are a reference to an order of the Minister of Health for the introduction of temporary anti-epidemic measures in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. However, there is no such imperative requirement in that order, but it has been established that applicants may submit a negative result within 72 hours prior to entry into the establishment or event testing using the PCR chain reaction method for COVID-19 or a rapid antigen test up to 48 hours prior to that, certified by a valid document or a certificate of presence of antibodies as an alternative variant of vaccination against or disease of COVID-19. My question is: what measures have you taken as a minister to prevent such discriminatory treatment in the future and to ensure equal treatment of all Bulgarian citizens. Will you also do what is necessary to ensure that the Rector of the Ministry of Interior also does not allow such discrimination? How many persons who have not been vaccinated or treated with COVID-19 have been admitted to the contest in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u228	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For an answer, Minister Rashkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Georgiev! In connection with a competition for the appointment of a public service in the Regional Directorate of Border Police (Smolyan), in holiday junior executive posts requiring compulsory professional training, I inform you that there is no discriminatory treatment on the part of these structures. The need to provide valid documents for vaccination or disease of COVID-19 shall not constitute a form of direct or indirect discrimination within the meaning of art. 4 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. I believe that you have misinterpreted this concept as a mandatory condition for participation in the competition. The requirements to be met by applicants are set out in Item II of the Order of 11 October 2021 on the announcement of a contest for the appointment of a public service at the Ministry of Interior. They shall take into account only the job description of the post held or the one to be taken up, and no certificates or certificates of vaccination or sickness from COVID-19 are provided for among the necessary documents. The guidelines for the conduct of the contest referred to in Protocol No 40-74 and so on from 24 January 2022 shall take into account the following: 32 of Order No 01-973 of the Minister of Health, etc. 1 from a letter with a reg. No 81-21 of the Rector of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. They shall regulate the way in which the competition takes place and shall be followed by both the members of the Commission and the participants. According to them, competition and selection procedures for recruitment and reassignment of employees at the Ministry of Interior and physical fitness studies, psychological examinations, examinations and interviews shall be conducted subject to the following anti-epidemic measures: First, 100% of the staff of the site concerned have been vaccinated or treated with COVID-19 or have had the result of a study certified with valid vaccination, illness or examination documents. Second, the owner of the site, the organizer of the event, has made a decision and has created the necessary organisation for admission to the site, respectively, of the event, only to persons who have been vaccinated or treated with COVID-19, certified with valid vaccination or disease documents, or have submitted a negative result from a test carried out within 72 hours prior to entry into the site using the PCR chain reaction method for COVID-19 or a rapid antigen test up to 48 hours prior to entry into the site or the event, which is certified by a valid document or certificate of antibody against SARS-CoV-2. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] From the above, please allow me only to complete the sentence, Mr President, and by comparing the same with the instructions set out in Protocol No 40-74 of 24 January 2022, it is clear that the Commission has strictly adhered to the orders given and that there is no discriminatory treatment towards the participants in the contest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Georgiev? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u231	Dear Minister Rashkov, reading the text, it is a question that individuals are required to have been vaccinated or treated, certified with valid documents, and to provide a negative result from a study conducted within 72 hours prior to the examination. This in itself excludes the possibility of a healthy Bulgarian citizen who has not been vaccinated, but has not, respectively, been sick, to participate in the contest in question. This in itself is discrimination and I believe that this is clear and visible to absolutely everyone. I specifically asked you how many such Bulgarian citizens who have not been vaccinated have not been inoculated, but have submitted a negative test, have been admitted to the competition and do you give the opportunity to Bulgarian citizens who do not have vaccination and who have not been sick, to participate in the competitions in question? Because if you don't, I think this is absolute discrimination and you can't ask 100% of your employees to be either vaccinated or sick. At least they don't choose to get sick. This is not something that happens to us of our own accord and of our own choosing. This is something that does not depend on our will and desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u232	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. That was the last question for you, Minister. Thank you for participating in today's control. As far as Minister Vassilev has not yet come, Mrs. Tsoneva, please be patient. We have his assurance that he is on his way to the National Assembly building. We will continue with the questions to Minister Gokov, in fact a question of the National Representative Mumun Mumun on policies for untrained and unemployed young people until 29 years of age. Here you are, Mr. Mumeun, to develop your question..................... you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I, as an MP from Haskovo, a multi-mandated electoral area and knowing investors' attitudes especially towards this area, believe that it is relevant and I ask you the following question in terms of youth unemployment. In the structure of unemployed people especially occupies youth unemployment. In the medium term, reducing unemployment and increasing employment among young people is seen as a key factor in achieving the objectives set by the Europe 2020 Strategy. On the other hand, I can say that reducing youth unemployment is key to attracting investment in certain areas of the country, especially as the And you know they're focused in some areas of the country. Business investors, given the entry of high technologies, rely on attracting young people into their structures, and if they do not see an opportunity to do so, simply invest in other areas of the country, which is an obstacle to, if I may say so, decentralisation of investment in the country, or pay attention to other countries and invest there, which have a younger population and lower youth unemployment. Of course, building work habits at an early age is not of less importance. From this point of view, Minister, I would like to ask about the current situation of the so-called NEETs young people up to the age of 29 who do not study, do not work and do not qualify for what programmes or policies do you foresee in 2022 for the inclusion of these young people in the labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u234	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mumyun, the crisis caused by COVID-19 has had a negative impact on the group of young people who do not study and do not work. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, the relative share of persons aged 15 to 29 years, not employed and not participating in education and training, of the population aged the same age during the years before the crisis was reduced. In 2019 this share was 16,7%, 9 points lower than 2013. Following an increase in the value of the indicator to 18,1% in 2020 from the beginning of 2021, a downward trend was observed and its value reached the levels of 2019 in the third quarter of the year, namely 16,7%. Activating inactive young people is extremely important for the development of our country, on the one hand, in order to be actively involved in the workforce and, on the other hand, such as preventing their social exclusion and poverty. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy therefore conducts a consistent policy to identify, activate, integrate and employ young people who do not study and do not work. The main instrument of the policy for identification and activation is the National Program "Activation of inactive persons" in which integrated services aimed at inactive persons provided by Roma and youth mediators, psychologists and Case Managers are united. In municipalities with the highest number of inactive young people are appointed 89 youth, 73 Roma mediators. As a result of the work of mediators in 2021, more than 14 thousand were activated. inactive young people up to 29 years of age. The activities of identifying and activating these young people are also carried out under the project "Ready for Work" funded by the European Social Fund. The project identified 33 thousand by the end of 2021. 623 inactive young people across the country. The employment agency develops electronic services that attract young people due to flexibility and the possibility of registration and information without direct contact with the institution. Five electronic administrative services, including registration and inclusion in training, are maintained. A specific approach to attracting inactive young people is informational days, labour exchanges and mobile employment offices. 44 youth labour exchanges have been held for 2021 only, involving more than 1300 persons, 40% of the jobs started after participation in the labour exchange are young people who have not been registered at the employment bureaus. 1657 young people and 3016 more in 724 days of the employer participated in an organized 291 mobile employment bureau. Local collaborations have been established to implement activities to activate the NEETs with more than 760 partners, including mayors and NGOs. In 2022, for the identification and activation of young people who do not study and are not in employment work more than 210 Roma and youth mediators, psychologists and case managers, and more than 600 labor mediators in labour offices provide services to young people to search and start work on the primary labour market. Within the framework of the active labour market policy, the Ministry's efforts are aimed at creating opportunities for young people to be involved in training, apprentices, internships and subsidised employment. With an indicative budget of about 34 million. lv. The work and career development opportunities of over 4,000 unemployed young people are created under the scheme. Finally, I would like to assure you that our efforts will continue in the future, as new initiatives to activate and engage in employment, the so-called NEETs will be launched under the Human Resources Development Programme as soon as it is approved by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u236	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Mummyun, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u237	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've been pretty thorough, that's comforting. I see there's a focus on this pain in the ass. Believe me, really investors look first at this and at the analyses they do before deciding to invest in a particular area in the country. They mean exactly this topic, because no investor would want to, and naturally it is also relative to the investment itself, to invest in a region where there is an older population, because there are specifics where young people should be involved, and they are already quite IT literate and educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u238	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Mr. Gokov, would you like to make a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mumeun, this information that I have provided to you is limited because within the parliamentary control, we have carried away even more, for which I thank the President. I can provide you with much more detailed information in your interest, I will present it to you even now. I fully share what you are saying that this is a reserve for the labour market in the absence of skilled labour, to qualify these young people, to activate them, first of all, to qualify them and to include them in employment, this is one of the main objectives of the Employment Agency and of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I thank you for the question you are asking, because this is how we make the problem of these people public, who are neither studying nor in employment, nor qualifying in any way. Through your question, and through my answer to the public space, this question will enter, and I hope that more and more young people who somehow do not see hope for their realization, to act and to seek an appeal to them from the stands of the National Assembly, to become active, to visit the labour offices on the ground and to seek from there a service for which they would otherwise not go because of going to institutions and so on. I am telling you and through them that it is very easy access to the employment bureaus and will be only for their benefit, will be oriented in the labour market, if you will, will gain an idea of this, and because of the lack of professional orientation at an early age they will get some such, albeit minimal, orientation in the labour market to know where to start their way, or if they have gone nowhere to go, to know where to turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u240	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Due to a delayed issue by the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva, the questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy are exhausted. Thank you for the involvement of the Minister. Moving on to the next series of questions. Since we are still waiting for Mr. Radostin Vassilev, we will move on to the questions addressed to the Minister of Defense Mr. Stefan Yanev. I come to Angel Zhekov Georgiev's question about the penalties due to the delay in the delivery of F-16 fighters from the US country. That is the only question left since the other two dropped out, Minister. Mr. Georgiev, please make your statement and ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yanev, as has become known, ordered and prepaid F-16 fighters will be delivered with a long delay. So far, it is not clear exactly how late the delivery will be, but as reported in the media, the delay will be significant. In this regard, I would like to have an answer to the following question: are they intended and to what extent are the penalties due by the American side in relation to the delay in delivery? What is the time limit for the termination of the contract due to default? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u242	Thank you for your question. Here you are, Mr. Yanev, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u243	Dear Madam President, Mr. Georgiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The contract for the delivery of F-16s, Block 70 for the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria was concluded in 2019 under the terms of the US Foreign Military Sales Programme. These are government-type contracts, in the case between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States, and the common practice under these types of treaties is for governments to approach each other with confidence, and in this case the guarantor for the implementation of the contract by US companies is the government of the United States. In case of a possible delay or failure, the US Government imposes the same sanctions on the companies with which the supply contract for equipment was concluded, whatever it was imposed, in case these contracts were concluded in the interest of the US Department of Defence. That is to say, there is a full level playing field with regard to the US government, in this case, the US Air Force, to companies that, for one reason or another, have made this kind of delay. The standard general terms and conditions of such a type of contract implemented under the US Foreign Military Sales Programme that the buyer may cancel a contract or delete individual points at any time prior to the supply of defence products or the provision of defence services. All costs resulting from this cancellation of the contract are entirely at the expense of the buyer. And the second condition I would like to stress is that the US government will make maximum efforts to consult the buyer or its authorised representatives on possible delays. In practice, we are already in talks with the US government and I expect a number of preparatory video conference calls will be made in the coming weeks by the end of February or early March. These consultations will clarify precisely these parameters and the possible compensations that Bulgaria could receive, respectively the Bulgarian Air Force. In the contract itself, as a type contract, there is no direct provision for termination of the contract at the time of its execution. It is a process that can be initiated by the buyer at his request and on the basis of a legitimate request. I understand that there is sensitivity at the moment, now that all the parameters of the possible delay, the possible compensations, the possible actions, first of both governments, and then the companies as opportunities for future steps, but I think this is not the time to talk about what these future steps might be. Let us do the consultations, then we will have more clarity and I hope I will have the opportunity to inform Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u244	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Georgiev, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u245	Dear Mr. Yanev, the reasons for the Law for ratification of the four international contracts indicate that the buyer, i.e. the Republic of Bulgaria, could cancel the execution of the contracts at any moment before delivery, as you yourself said. Given the expected delay, is it thought to give up as a country of this deal and to seek another suitable alternative? It is also stated in the reasoning of the Law on the ratification of the four international treaties that they contain open clauses which can be changed in the implementation process due to their long implementation period. Are there any changes to the contracts to date in view of the extended delivery time, and if so, what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u246	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Yanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Georgiev, I think that in my initial speech in response to your question I was clear that we cannot talk about follow-up actions, intentions and proposals for a solution, provided that we do not yet know all the circumstances on the basis of which this delay is due, and what are the possible moves. When we know them, then we will have a bearing on all the issues that you have raised, including whether we can change clauses or seek the annulment of the entire treaty. These are issues that will be resolved in the future when we know all the parameters, therefore, because such a contract is neither so easy to read with all its clauses, nor so easy to implement, given that it is a contract not for a unit platform in this case an airplane, and this is a contract for all the necessary support.......................................................................... It's a complex contract with many components. The assessment of what is to come and whether adjustments can be made in its anexes will be made further when we know the whole picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u248	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. That's the end of the question for the Secretary of Defense. We thank him for his participation. Mr. Radostin Vassilev is already in the Chamber. Minister of Youth and Sports, so Mrs. Tsoneva, your turn has come. The question is from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva on the construction of school gyms on a type project. Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u249	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The question of the state of the infrastructure for physical education and sport in schools is extremely worrying. According to an analysis by the Ministry of Education, 1570 schools need repair on their sports sites, and 551 of them need to build new ones. Only these activities, according to the Education Ministry, require about 133 million. And 700,000. BGN, and overall for the construction of gyms and sports sites and repair of existing sports salons according to the calculations of the Ministry 860 million are needed. lv. You understand that every step forward in improving the state of this infrastructure is welcome. Why am I exporting this data? Publicly known data show that in recent months of 2020, the Ministry of Youth and Sport announced 15 public contracts to build gyms throughout the country through an engineering procedure. For this purpose, type projects have been made and a budget of about 1 million has been provided for each of the salons. lv. Visible from the public procurement register, the procedures have been carried out and contracts with the selected contractors have been signed. I did a check in my constituency of Pazardzhik, of two such schools that I saw in the register that they were listed for the execution of such salons. In the middle school of Nesho Bonchev in the town of Panagyurishte there is no sign that this has started, I even prepared a picture, there should be a gym for a million dollars. [[shows photo]] And this is from a school in Pazardzhik, there should also be a gym for 1 million... The same is evident in the Professional High School of Chemical and Food Technologies in Pazardzhik, where such a salon should also be built or at least there should be construction started. In this sense, my question is: at what stage is the construction of the 15 gymnasiums, what part of the amount is paid by the performers and is there a delay in construction activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. I give the Minister of Youth and Sports the floor to answer the question asked. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u251	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mrs. Tsoneva, this will most likely become an example of how sports salons should not be built in Bulgaria as a whole. In connection with your question, with Decree No 32 of 28 February 2020 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria under the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, additional expenditure of 25 million has been approved. lv. for the construction and equipment of gymnasiums in Bulgarian schools according to a list established by the Minister of Education and Science. The list has been updated three times by the Minister of Education and Science until contracts have been concluded. With subsequent Decree No 214 of 14 August 2020 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria under the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, additional costs up to 840 thousand were approved. lv. for the construction and equipment of a sports facility in a yard of the Primary School....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the implementation of the provisions of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has conducted procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractors of engineering activities for the construction of gymnasiums under a type design according to the order for the award of public contracts laid down in the Law on Public Procurement. The estimated value thresholds of engineering and the implementation of the planned activities for construction of buildings and construction works were carried out in accordance with art. 18, para. 1, t. 12 of the Public Competition, i.e. the Public Competition. As a result of the procedure of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Youth and Sport concluded, notice, 24 contracts and not 15, engineering for the construction of gyms for the following sites, from which funding is provided from points 1 to 23 with Order No 32 of 2020 of the Council of Ministers. Now I'm going to list them for you to hear who they are: Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project in 7th secondary school. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium by type project at the Third elementary school of Dimitar Blagoev. Noisy. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the secondary school "Nesho Bonchev" "The town of Panagyurishte." Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the secondary school. St. Cyril and Methodius. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Professional Technical High School. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Primary school of Petko Rachov Slaveykov. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium by type project at the Professional High School of Tourism Ruse. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Secondary School. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Primary School "Smirnenski" in the city of Nova Zagora. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Professional High School of Telecommunications Sofia. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the National Financial and Industrial High School in Sofia. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the secondary school of Sofronius Vrachanski. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium by type project at the 134th secondary school of Dimcho Debelyanov. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Primary School of Petko Karavelov. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium by type project at a primary school in Plovdiv. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Secondary School of Father Paisiy. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Professional High School of the town of Dupnitsa. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the secondary school for learning foreign languages. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Professional High School of Economics and Tourism. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Secondary School for Advanced Language Learning Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Professional School of Economics in Pernik. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at secondary school. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at the Professional High School for Mechanoelectrics and Electronics in Burgas. Engineering for the construction of a gymnasium on a type project at OS. "Otets Paisiiy" "Topolovo" village, municipality of Asenovgrad. All these contracts for the award of engineering were concluded with the contractors in the period November and the end of December 2020. All 24 contracts by the Ministry of Youth and Sport were paid in advance 100% with VAT from the agreed price. The expenditure for the payment of the amounts due under those contracts is a total of BGN 20 973 962, 89. one decree of the Council of Ministers and 839 225, 83 BGN. by the additional decree of the Council of Ministers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u252	You've almost two minutes out of time, Mr. Vassilev. You can continue in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u253	Thirty seconds, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u254	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u255	The most important sentence is that at present there is only one built and put into service salon, and everyone else has not even started in its entirety. For the other 23 contracts for engineering gyms the condition is what you showed in your photos. When you give me a line, I'll give you an additional answer as to what we have done on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u256	Come in for a reply, Mrs. Tsoneva, and so Mr. Vassilev will have the opportunity to continue with the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's really very sad, this news. I knew it was about 15 objects, but you say that these are 24 objects, of which only one is built, although the execution contracts, as far as I understand, are by the end of 2021. In this sense, if you have the opportunity to answer me now: what happens to these 23 outstanding contracts, what are the consequences and how will be acted from here on in relation to this public resource, because according to GERB's favourite scheme this money has been paid up 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Mr. Vasilev, please come in for a back-up and an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, you're absolutely right. There is only one built and this is in the village of Topolovo, municipality of Asenovgrad. For the remaining 23 contracts, the condition is as follows: only four of the contracts have building permits; only one of the construction works of a minimum size, which is currently specified in the Ministry by a special commission, have been carried out. I can provide you in writing with which only construction permits are available, and for the other gyms there is not even a building permit issued. At present 22 of 23 engineering contracts have been terminated due to the expiry of the agreed deadline. I entered the Minister's office on 13 December 2021, and very shortly after my entry all of the contracts expired, but there was almost no execution and almost no correspondence on them between the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the contractors under these contracts. After our intervention, the legal team of the Ministry decided that at the moment it does not make sense for these contracts to be implemented in this way, and some of the contractors sent immediately comments that they were unable to build them for the amount under which the contracts were concluded. We have dealt quite aggressively with this, because for us this is, to put it mildly, an unlawful act for which we are yet to refer to the competent authorities. We're still gathering all the information on the file. After invitations for voluntary return of funds to absolutely all contractors in the contracts, except for the only one who has a salon, 4 days ago the Ministry entered just over four million levs. One of the structures that are the DZDs that participated in the competitions recovered the funds, warning us that they would sue us for missed benefits. Communicating with the performers is going very hard. Some of them are undetectable. This is a typical example of motorways in the Ministry of Sports. There are no funds in the Ministry, there are no salons built, the contracts are available on each of them we are currently making a report, and most likely due to certain actions of officials in the Ministry will be addressed by competent authorities. I can't give legal qualifications to what we're about to claim. At the very least, one year over 20 million. lv. State funds stand in certain companies under the Law on Obligations and Contracts. They do not carry out their activities and I would like to inform you that some of the performers blame the Ministry for failing to fulfil its obligation under the contracts, which may be so, but which again means that someone has helped with their action or inaction in the end not to have salons. The most appropriate thing we've considered right is if we can recover these funds. They will go to the central budget so that we can really use them for something real and not for some typical example of what you mentioned about a previous management. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-18.u260	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the opportunity to give further information to Mrs. Tsoneva. This has exhausted the questions to Minister Radostin Vassilev and we are done with today's parliamentary control. The next meeting is on 22 February 2022, Tuesday, at 11:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
