ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. Pavel Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u3	Thank you. 189 MPs have registered in the hall and 1 online " 190" total. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Moving on to item one on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Under art. 91 to 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, first of all, I will read you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 18 to 24 March 2022. Written responses have been received from: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Vladimir Marinov; on a question from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; and MP Tsveta Galunova; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva; Alexander Dunchev; a question from the MPs Michal Kambarev, Alexander Dunchev and Rosen Koshurkov; a question from the MP Dimitar Tashev; on 4 questions from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev; a question from the MP Ilin Dimitrov; a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov, a question from the MPs Mihail Kambarev, Alexander Dunchev and Rosen Koshurkov; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov on a question from the MPs Aleksandar Dunchev and Yuri Kozlov; a question from the MP Zhecho Stankov; a question from the MP Ivo Atanasov; two questions from the MP Ilin Dimitrov; a question from the MP Daniel Petrov; a question from the MP Julia Ivanova and Zornitsa Stratieva; - Minister Dragomir Zakov to three questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister Ivan Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev and Inna Ivanova; a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; a question from the National Representative Mumun Mumun; - Minister Nikolay Sabev to three questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Vyara Emilova; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the MP Tsveta Galunova; - Minister Hristo Prodanov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev. Please come in for a statement, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. President, we at the DPS are making this declaration to express our great concern that the government has no plan to manage the unprecedented global crisis in Bulgaria caused by the war in Ukraine. At this stage the government acts day to day, piece to piece, without any planning and preventive measures. According to all expert and political forecasts, the world must prepare for a long war and that the crises caused by it will already have serious, unfortunately, long-term consequences. However, the government does not govern in the direction of such a prospect, another is the question of what and how it manages. The military conflict has enhanced the negative effects of the insurmountable social and economic consequences of the Kovid pandemic and of the global price energy crisis, leading to record gas, oil and electricity prices. This is felt especially in the European Union, for which Russia provides 70% of the energy supply, and for our country the percentage is higher. The forecasts for the increase in prices of energy raw materials and fuels are to continue because Russia is second in the world after Saudi Arabia for exports of oil and energy carriers. If it comes to a complete suspension of supplies from Russia, unfortunately, for now, the European Union as a whole has no alternative. Liquefied gas is not yet an alternative for Europe because there is not enough capacity in the world for transport, and there is not enough infrastructure within the European Union to absorb these volumes and needs. There is no government plan for such a stalemate. What if Russia shuts down the supply of power carriers? In addition, the situation would be complicated as well as in the light of the Green Deal, it is envisaged that 40% of the capacity of the Maritsa-East- is reduced, as well as the closure of energy capacities under the green trades section and not their modernisation. There are no measures to ensure the country's supply and food security is an element of national security. I would like to pay particular attention to farmers under the conditions of increased fuel prices, electricity, plant protection preparations, notice the increase by 300 to 500 per cent of fertilizer prices, i.e. from three to five times higher prices. Should we put them in a position to ask the state for support, since it is up to them to provide the provision. Some of them literally cannot make ends meet, and the budget has further burdened them with the increase of the insurance threshold by nearly 300 BGN and exactly the opposite is the decision of the European Commission. Just two days ago in a number of European countries, the recommendations are to reduce these insurance thresholds. Unfortunately, as we have already pointed out, these people are not only abandoning the field, they are also leaving the country. We will not comment on the demographic profile, this is extremely serious and negative for us. If the government wants to destroy this industry, it can be said to be moving in the right direction. There is also lack of State support for livestock farmers, more and more of them closing down their farms, transferring their animals to slaughterhouses due to their inability to bear the financial costs. There is no support for fruit and vegetable producers, they also said that autumn will not be protested because they will not be in the country and there will be no such producers. Moreover, the country's carelessness is at risk of problems with providing food, food supplies of primary necessity in our country, as well as a drastic increase in food prices. And it should be borne in mind that Russia and Ukraine together provide nearly 30% of the world's exports of wheat, one fifth of maize, 80% of sunflower. All of this will not affect us, and this requires very adequate management of these resources. There are no measures to support our socially weak fellow citizens and pensioners at these high prices of electricity, food, medicines. Tourism, which has a serious contribution to GDP, will also be affected by the war. What measures have been identified nobody reports, and it is good to take measures because tourism has a serious attitude towards the country's gross domestic product, as we have repeatedly pointed out...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u5	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u6	Unlike Bulgaria, the governments of the other countries of the European Union have taken serious measures to address the crisis. Thirteen countries, including France, have limited wholesale or retail prices of electricity by reducing taxes on electricity. In Italy, the State took over electricity taxes and taxes and reduced gas taxes, made 20% tax concessions for energy-intensive enterprises. A national plan for responding to the consequences of the war and the crisis is already in place in Spain. In Greece, colleagues, aid for high fuel prices for low-income families is paid, and pensioners are given 200 euros a month in compensation for expensive foods, increased family supplements for children and continued aid for high electricity prices. The total value of the aid package is 1 billion. 120 million. euros for the next three months. In Romania, there is a government decree on the ceiling of electricity and gas prices for a period of one year for both domestic consumers and businesses. We call on the government of Bulgaria also to develop such a plan with short-term and long-term measures to reduce and overcome the consequences of the crisis, seeking a sub-party consensus in order to find the most adequate solutions for the needs of the state and society as a whole. A request for a hearing of the Prime Minister has already been submitted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in order to provide information on the readiness of the government to develop and implement a crisis management plan as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Procedure by Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, although only 15 minutes ago this plenary session began, and it is regarding parliamentary control issues. On January 10th, Mr. Chairman, I have asked Minister Nadezhda Yordanova a question. For more than two months now, quite deliberately in order to arrange the ministers' answers in the parliamentary control Nadezhda Yordanova is always the last. I am under the impression that the question I have asked regarding the Law on Special Bets concerns not only Mrs. Nadezhda Yordanova, but also you obviously. Today I see that the program for parliamentary control Nadezhda Yordanova is the last after the 90 questions of Boyko Rashkov. Yesterday afternoon I found out that Mr. Rashkov has informed you that he will not appear in parliamentary control. Yes, he only and only does what he does is not to be here in Parliament, but to be on TV giving briefings in his office and anywhere else, but not in the National Assembly, which directly exercises parliamentary control over his activities. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] The same happens to Nadezhda Yordanova. It has not answered a current parliamentary question for more than two months. And now, Mr. Chairman, excuses that the arrangement of parliamentary control is in accordance with the President's Decree are absolutely illegal here, because there is neither a Prime Minister to answer today nor any other Deputy Prime Ministers, as I have noticed. There is only one and only Mrs. Ninova with one question. I've asked you several times, including the Presidential Council, to change your approach...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u9	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u10	Yes, I can see the time that I'm already 30 seconds above procedure time, but, Mr. Chairman, if you want me to go out every week or every day for procedures, keep ignoring this question. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u11	Got it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u12	...I remain convinced that not only are you hiding Kiril Petkov, but now Nadezhda Yordanova. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u13	Thank you. Let me get this straight. Colleagues from the DPS rightly note that there is a notification from Minister Rashkov that... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's not what the notification says. Now I'm going to tell you exactly.. there is some commitment Minister Rashkov, so his questions are dropped today. Wait a minute, Mr. Bikov! About Hope Yordanova. I've mentioned rotation several times. I don't need to say this twice. I'll just point out that she was already here twice, answering questions, and you weren't there. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", ICN and SG.]] It's true! If today actually get to its order and you are not online to ask your question, it will be the third time and the answer will become automatically written. Including last week, Mrs. Yordanova answered questions. Mr. Bikov for a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For 100 days Bulgaria has been governed by a government of change. This period is sufficient to outline the trends that one management sets. The last 100 days have been a period of timelessness, an inability to make adequate decisions, and hence a deepening of the series of crises facing our country. The first and most significant crisis that has failed to cope with the management of the Change is the political crisis. Instead of making efforts to consolidate society and the political system in the name of a more effective response to the challenges facing the country, the government clearly shows that it is unable to unite around itself even the ruling majority. The dividing lines in society have been thorough, and with each passing day the faults in the quadruple coalition are becoming more visible. The reason for the latter is that in 100 days the parties in the ruling majority have never been able to work out clear and working mechanisms for decision making and responsibility. The instinct for destruction has become the main and only political basis for the existence of the current coalition. During this time the Bulgarians became significantly poorer, the country was deprived of its prospects for development, lost won positions internationally, and the promises of justice and judicial reform were plunged into the swamp of incompetence and lack of activity. Although the adoption of the 2022 budget was late, it has in no way reflected the country's current challenges. Today, there is no financial expert and analyst to confirm the forecast of Finance Minister Asen Vassilev for economic growth of 4.8% and inflation of 5.6%. This means that for the second time since the update of the budget for 2021, Asen Vassilev is unable to predict economic trends for several weeks ahead. This puts the state, business and households in a situation of unpredictability, uncertainty and lack of perspective. The current government and, above all, the finance minister is directly responsible for the large-scale price crisis that has been caused by the price hike of energy carriers. At the end of the summer of last year the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ proposed a model that would limit the effects of the price shock, but it was rejected with the votes of quasi-mansion in the Forty-sixth National Assembly and under the dictation of the then Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev. As soon as the 40th National Assembly was elected, we again proposed solutions that were rejected by the parties by the majority of the party. Thanks to this today, we are witnessing the worst inflation storm since 1997. The political crisis, the targeting of national energy towards revenge and political repression, as well as the lack of value monolithiness of the ruling coalition weakened Bulgaria's positions internationally. The main priority of this governance is not the protection of national interest, but the preservation of unsaved internal coalition balances. The reason for the Bulgarian foreign policy position to be incomprehensible both east and west is that it has no foreign policy but internal political character. The priorities of this governance are mainly related to the feudalisation and personnel management of the sectors that coalition partners shared while misleading the public that they are negotiating a programme in a capital mall. To this day, the management programme of the current cabinet is a secret for both lawmakers and citizens. Due to the close to the mandate lobbyist and corporate interests the Recovery and Sustainability Plan was failed. This deprived the Bulgarian economy of several billion euros and thousands of opportunities for modernisation and efficiency of Bulgarian production. Dear colleagues, today Bulgaria is poorer, weaker and more divided than it was 100 days ago. The responsibility for this result is not the opposition's, but the government's. It was their decision to broadcast to a prime minister a man who is not only deprived of political experience and qualities, but is becoming more and more visible Almost every day of the current government's mandate is marked by its prime minister's international and internal political blunders. Therefore today the Bulgarian political and public life looks like Kiril Petkov confused, unsaveable and hopeless. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The party and the quota principle were placed far above the competence and authority of candidates for public positions. After part of the sponsors of the largest formation in the coalition had acquired ministerial chairs and after a series of Shurobajan appointments in the executive power, the order of lawlessness came. A person who does not meet the formal criteria for the position has been imposed for the Chair of the KEWRC. In the coming weeks, the fate of one of the few institutions of the Bulgarian National Bank is to be decided. In the place of an undisputed professional and a person with international authority, such as Dimitar Radev, there is a choice between two party functionaries, such as the chairman of the parliamentary group of "We are continuing the Change"....................................................................... In this way the BNB was also turned into a hostage of balance sheets and turmoil in the ruling majority. Political vampireization of fossils from late socialism and early transition like Boyko Rashkov... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u15	Well, Mr. Bikov!?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u16	...is an appropriate image of incompetence, inadequacy and hatred that govern the country. These were the three factors that led the government to mark its first 100 days with an illegal arrest of the leader of the largest opposition party. This disgraceful act undermines the prestige of the Bulgarian institutions both internally and internationally. In the House of the European Parliament, the question of whether Bulgaria is at all a rule of law and a democratic country becomes quite relevant. For a week now, however, none of those involved in this scandal have even considered taking responsibility for the violation of laws, procedures and democratic rules. Moreover, from his position as failed Minister Boyko Rashkov is already teaching the European Parliament, which undermines Bulgaria's prestige even more. Ladies and gentlemen, the GERB-SDS parliamentary group expresses its firm position that the current government is not only unable to propose solutions for the number of crises in which the country is located but also puts at risk basic consensus in the Bulgarian society. In just three months, the potential for efficiency of this Parliament has been exhausted, the agenda of which is widely excluded from the agenda of the citizens. Therefore, we see as the only way out of the situation of the government's resignation, the dissolution of the forty-seventh National Assembly and the convening of early parliamentary elections. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We express this position with full awareness of the risks and dangers that this scenario carries. At the same time, however, we are aware that a government of incompetence, adventure and lawlessness poses a far greater danger and a greater risk to the state. We call on the system parties involved in this government to reconsider their position and withdraw from the coalition as soon as possible. It is also the only way for them to save the idea reasons for their participation in political life. We are convinced that our country has the potential to broadcast a courageous, responsible and decisive governance that will use all the potential of the nation and lead it through the crises. No one is above Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. We can start with parliamentary control now. Cornelia Ninova "Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry" will answer one question, which is from the National Representative Mladen Nikolov Shishkov, about the major renovation and reconstruction of the dam Pilashevo-3. [[Part of GERB-SDS MPs are leaving the plenary room.]] Mr. Shishkov, just one second. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Pilashevo 3 Reservoir has an area of 92 acres, built in the last century. The dam is located in a water supply zone by water-powered two settlements "Bukovo and Voden," municipality of Parvomay. It is located at the beginning of one of the currents of the Banska River. Six more settlements are located along this river. The condition of the dam facility is critical and extremely disturbing. Filtering of the dam is observed and there is a real risk of tearing the wall due to strong erosion. The dam is included in the list of dams for which contracts for repair and reconstruction have been concluded. However, the renovations have not yet started. If construction works do not start as soon as possible and two settlements are threatened by water, hazards are also posed in a complicated weather environment. Dear Minister, two months ago from the parliamentary tribune you presented facts related to the dam renovations, qualifying them as shocking. In fact, all the information you provided is publicly known and published on the official pages of the relevant institutions. It is disturbing that it has taken more than a month for your experts to read and systematize information that is commonly known. I will take the liberty of quoting some of your words from the parliamentary tribune then: I came before you in January to warn you about March. We have a huge water wealth pouring into the ground because we treat Bulgaria's water resources without a care. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: when will the repair activities of the quoted dams start? I remind you that it is already March and I very much hope that you will not allow our immense water wealth to be poured into the ground. I hope that you will not treat Bulgaria's water resources without fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, it is a little strange that this question is asked precisely by the MEP of GERB-SDS. I will answer, of course, and from the dates I present to you here, and the actions taken on these dates, you will probably have to ask another person that question. The facts are as follows, honourable Members: July 2018. The Council of Ministers at the time with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov decided to entrust the State consolidation company with the renovation of dams. In the same decision, the list of these dams is defined. Pilashevo Reservoir, Municipality of Parvomay, falls within that list July 2018. Exactly one year later, in June 2019, between the State consolidation company and the State consolidation company and the First question: what does the government of GERB do from 2018 to 2019 when this treaty is signed? Next is the Expert Council at the DKK there is an Expert Council that evaluates what the repair works will be and another year later.. on 25 June 2021, this Expert Council approves the preparation of an investment project for the implementation of repair reconstruction activities of the dam Pilashevo-3. The government of Boyko Borisov lost three years to determine this dam as dangerous, to conclude a contract for repair and to pronounce the experts any repair. Now, you've felt some reproach in your voice, in three months you're looking for the responsibility of the new government why the dam hasn't been repaired. Three years against three months! Of course, after the new government made these commitments, we strengthened the repair work not only on this dam, but also on several others, which are dangerous. Everything is finished, another expertise, and is coming up, I cannot commit to within days or within weeks, but the construction site is about to be opened and the renovations started literally soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in fact, what we have learned from your answer is that things will happen sometime, but another time. It is soon a stretching concept in time and it is not clear exactly when the activities will start. With regard to the factology that you have presented, I have said several times that it is widely known and is located on the website of the DKK and of the. What you are asking as a question is: what has the GERB government done in these years? In fact, what the GERB government has done in these years is to assess the need for reform in this sector, to make legislative changes, which had to be reconstructed once again during the re-evaluation of these risks, as there were obstacles that prevented all dams from being transferred, to commission the design and implementation of repair works on the dams and facilities to them at 267 dams for these three years. A total of 196 dam projects have been approved for these three years, the construction sites of 127 dams have been opened, 10 of them have already been built, for 25 are currently completed and 71 of them are starting repair and repair activities. All of this is information as of 31 May 2021. At present, no such up-to-date information is available on the website of Why? Maybe you can answer that. So, Ms. Ninova, with all due respect to you, what has been done in three years is extremely much, and I very much hope that you will continue this line of conduct and in the next few months and years, if you have the opportunity, of course, to manage, this pace will be accelerated so that all these plans that have been made for dams can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Here you go, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u24	Dear Mr. Shishkov, the only thing that has been done in the last three years on the subject of dams is: spent 500 million. BGN, repaired 10, recognized as legal only one. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What filing you've done, what dams you've described, is your business. The result is: 500 million, a legal dam and a case in the prosecution for these actions. Regarding the line that you hope to continue in the same way, just forget it. The thefts at the dams have stopped. If repairs are to be done, and some are already necessary because of the urgency, they will be done transparently for the money for what it costs, and it will not be stolen. As far as the other is concerned, I hope the prosecution will speed up this pre-trial proceedings and see soon an indictment and bring guilty persons to justice for this carelessness, once again I seek it out for 500 million. leva, a legally renovated dam. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u25	That's not true. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works. He will answer a total of eight questions. The first question is from the MP Nikolina Angelkova about the construction of bridges. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, my question to you is in connection with the announced by your government and, in particular, on 22 December 2021 by the Minister of Transport Mr. Subev, the Programme for Building within your mandate, four bridges over the Danube River. Building bridges and transport connectivity in general is extremely important for the development of regions, for improving transport connectivity, attracting new investments and overall economic development. The construction of bridge facilities, particularly of a cross-border nature, is extremely complex and requires a number of actions so that they can be prepared and adequately constructed and put into service. In the years, memorandums of understanding with the Romanian side have been signed, possible locations have been defined where such bridge facilities could be built, different studies have been conducted. For example, the Ruse Bridge "Girgevo" falls into a European corridor, the other places where such points are defined do not fall, which is related to funding opportunities. In this regard, I would like to ask you whether negotiations have started with the Romanian side on specific bridge construction sites, are there any protocols signed to the memorandums that currently exist, have these memorandums been changed, have pre-project studies been conducted, geological studies, have there been any concrete action plans drawn up, respectively and during preparatory actions, when will the technical projects be ready, respectively, the Construction Plan, is there any clarity where these bridge facilities will be financed, especially given that there is no signed partnership agreement, nor operational programmes, for a recovery and sustainability plan not to mention? How do you see in time and do you think it is realistic to build these four bridges in four years at best, in a regular term of a government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is the improvement of road infrastructure in Bulgaria, as well as the transport connectivity with neighbouring countries. Another priority is to make a breakthrough in the so-called connectivity of Bulgaria north of the south, which is in an extremely unsatisfactory state. The third priority is to work and make efforts with regard to our relationship across the Danube with Romania, which is also an expression of our desire to connect Bulgaria in more places, at more points with our neighbouring countries, Greece and Romania, that is, again on the north-south axis. In the past 10 years, Bulgaria and Romania have discussed a number of documents related to the possibilities for building new bridge facilities. Some have been signed bilaterally, others have been approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers by the Bulgarian side, others have remained without consequence. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Governments of Bulgaria and Romania was signed in Bucharest on 29 March 2019. In it, the two neighbouring countries undertake to do feasibility studies on the location of a bridge over the Danube River for one of the following locations: Oryahovo Unfortunately, no progress has been made in fulfilling the Memorandum in the past several years. The issue of the construction of new bridges over the Danube was put again at the table of the negotiations only on 28 January this year in Ruse at a meeting where I, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Sabev and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport and Infrastructure of Romania Mr. Sorin Grindianu, and at this meeting was agreed to begin real steps in the implementation of the Memorandum since 2019. It was decided that an intergovernmental working group would investigate the five points where there could be bridge facilities and speed up the work on the Project. After a series of meetings, taking into account the unsolved problems with the traffic of the Danube Bridge 1, the intergovernmental working group focused on the possibilities for building another bridge between Ruse and Gyurgiu. The aim is to ease the intensive movement of cars and cars along the Rhine Transport Corridor, which is part of the main tennis network. An agreement is currently being prepared for the construction of the new bridge facility and the document is expected to be signed between the Bulgarian and Romanian countries within April.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u30	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u31	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are repeating only general actions that do not give a clear answer to my questions because what you are saying about the five points to be determined is described in the Memorandum, which was signed on 29 March 2019. Oryahovo "Beket, Nikopol "Turnu Mugurele," Svishtov "Zimnic," Ruse "Gyurgiu" second bridge and Silistra "Kullarash." Apart from that, there is signed such a memorandum as early as 28 October 2014, re-subscribed 2018 again for the second bridge of the Danube River, Ruse, with the same priorities as you are setting yourself. Given that the main problem in the construction of these bridge facilities is financing, I asked you for a reason where funding would be found so that these facilities could be built, as traffic, especially in the locations of Silistra Cullarash, Nikopol, Turnu Mugurele, Oryahovo, Beckett, Svishtov Zimnic, which are designated, does not correspond to the traffic that is via Ruse. And for this reason, I would like to ask you where will both pre-project research and project development be financed from? Is there even a vision of how these bridge facilities will be built and where will they be financed, and on what horizon? Because it is good that you have political intentions for this to happen, but in practice they are repeating fully what has been laid down so far in the prepared memorandums with the Romanian side without any progress. There was also a working group, and I have participated in it as Chairman as well as Deputy Minister of Regional Development...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u32	The weather, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u33	Yeah, I'm done. And the problems are mainly about funding. How will you provide funding to start building these bridge facilities, provided that, as I said, even for Ruse, there is no clarity, given that there is no approved partnership agreement under operational programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, in part the answer to your question consists in what you said a little while ago Apart from signing specific memorandums, nothing has been done, you know it better than I do. In three months to want to have secured funding for something that has not yet been completed by the working groups, which we were able to do, because after the meeting on 28 January this year in Ruse with their Deputy Prime Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, two working groups followed immediately in Sofia, one in Bucharest. There is, as I said, a signing, finally, at the location of the first bridge, and once this memorandum is completed, we begin the talks about the next memorandum. It's too early to ask where they'll be financed from. First of all, we have a government budget, which, by not stealing, has enough funding for the bridges. These bridges are not God knows how much money, given the amounts we paid for Vidin Bridge, is not something that the Bulgarian state budget in the next 4, 5 or 6 years depends on how quickly this period will take place to afford. In addition, the partnership on European programmes is also on the table. It stands on the table because, when, as you know, there are several related countries in the European Union, there is the so-called "Kunecting Europe Fassilitti" which we can at the moment when the three signatures of Romania, Bulgaria and Greece stand, to receive additional funding. And believe me, working on a meeting is under way yesterday, we had a meeting with Greece's transport and infrastructure minister and we agreed that the three countries will gather together on our initiative, I would like to stress, with Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, to discuss precisely these issues and give them a quick start. So three months have passed, give me another three months and ask me the same question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Before we go to the next question, I would like to make an announcement. A photo documentary exhibition will be opened at the Club of the People's Representative and will be held for 125 years organized Thracian movement in Bulgaria. The initiative is of the Union of Thracian companies in Bulgaria. The exhibition introduces us to the fight of the Thracian Bulgarians for national liberation and unification, for the preservation and promotion of cultural and historical heritage and traditions, for the preservation of Bulgarian national spirit and identity in Bulgaria and abroad. The archival images resurrect the images of the most prominent figures in the Thracian movement, which took a worthy place in Bulgarian history and folk memory. All MPs are invited to the event. In this regard, at 11:00, I'll give half an hour's rest. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Georgi Georgiev on the construction of the site I-5, the bypass of the town of Kardzhali. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, Republican Road I-5 has been declared a national object and a national site by Council of Ministers Decision No 643 of 30 August 2011 and is part of the General Transport Corridor No 9. The town of Kardzhali may be the only district town without a ring road, which is located on Republic road I-5. The entire cargo and tourist flow passes through the city, which creates an extremely unpleasant environment for living. The noise, dust and pollution are everyday for the residents, and the situation is extremely difficult especially in the summer when huge traffic jams are formed due to the tourist flow to the border point. The road surface in the city is subjected to enormous loads due to the passage of heavy goods vehicles and it is worn out very quickly. In view of the above, I ask you to answer the following question: when does the government intend to build the so important infrastructure project for our country, located on the General Transport Corridor No 9, namely the site of the road I-5, the road of the town of Kardzhali? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, the shortest answer to your question is: when we make and receive the new EIA solution, because the old one has expired, unfortunately, that is, we are talking about something that was really announced in 2011 as a national site. From then on, in 2013 the EIA decision has already reached and since 2013 it has actually remained on this same hall without starting construction, respectively after five years it has expired. But in particular, I can now give data on the bypass to Kardzhali, which is approximately 15 km long, which is currently being worked on. A contract was concluded for the preparation of the infrastructure site in 2011 with subject: Regarding the estrangement procedures for securing the construction, I inform you that by decision of the Council of Ministers there has been a estrangement of private properties for state need for one section of the land in the village of Dostino, the municipality of Kardzhali. The track is 1 km 880 meters long and there is the infusion of the bypass route in the existing route of route I-5. It was granted a construction permit and it is fixed that, for three years after the entry into force of the construction permit, despite the construction permit, it has not started the specific construction and it has lost its legal effect. For the second section, the estrangement procedure has not started at all. A version of the Detailed Development Plan has been developed, agreed with the state administrations and commercial companies in the order of LU. As a reason for the delay in the project process is also the lack of an effective amendment of the regulation affected by the project path, which is being made under the award of the municipality of Kardzhali. For the investment proposal in the period 2012 - 2013 a procedure under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act was carried out, jointly with a procedure for assessment of compatibility, subject matter and objectives of protected areas. In accordance with art. 88, para. 5 of the Environmental Protection Act if, within five years of the entry into force of an EIA decision, the relevant plan has not been approved, the EIA decision has lost legal effect. There is a new environmental procedure to be carried out in the order of the EEAI and at the same time the procedures of the LU relating to the approval of the developed project of the PSU parcel plan could be launched. In accordance with art. 33, para. 1 of the State Property Act, the approved draft of the PUP, is proof of the existence of a state need and grounds for carrying out an alienation procedure for the affected properties. Given that by building the bypass, transit traffic will move out of urbanised territory and secure safe travel conditions, I assure you that the project has not stopped and continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm not satisfied with your answer. You are not to blame for the condition that for more than 10 years the previous governments have not taken measures and have not finished this important road for the town of Kardzhali. But your government has come with a huge request in this Parliament and has been running the state for several months now 100 days, with the request that they will make huge infrastructure projects, complete tunnels under Shipka, third, fourth, fifth bridge of the Danube and so on and I am very sick when such an important infrastructure project, such as the bypass of the town of Kardzhali, is not in the plans of your ministry. I suppose it is not a problem to coordinate your actions, to get the relevant permits from EIA and to invest in this so important infrastructure project, because the residents of Kardzhali expect it for more than a decade and are extremely disappointed with the state's action in this direction. I hope that you will take these remarks into account, will invest as quickly as possible in this infrastructure project and within the end of the year all necessary permits will be made, the alienation procedures will be carried out and the construction of this so important road to the town of Kardzhali will be started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Do you wish to make a duplicate? No. We then proceed to the next question by the National Representative Iskren Arabadzhiev about the collapsed road on the street, December 8th. "Student City, which has not been secured for more than a year. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov, I appeal to you about the accident on the street, December 8 in Student City, the district of Studentsky, which on 11 January 2021 caused the collapse of part of the road and the road sidewalk and stopped the free passage on them. December 8th is the main road connection with Student City with the main route of public transport and it is unacceptable for more than a year for access to the neighborhood to be severely hindered. As a former deputy mayor of the area, I have personally witnessed the transfer of responsibility between control institutions and the suspension of responsibility for what happened. I just want to give a brief timeline of events before the accident occurs. In 2022, the start of the Cable Shifting Authorization, one excavation, reaching a cat minus 13. After referral by the regional administration, the RDNC does not establish the existence of an excavation, which is related to the future construction of buildings, and for the specific terrain is provided the construction of a complex of over 600 apartments of the owner of the famous for its construction in the Student City company. The worrying thing is that the DNCC does not establish the existence of such an excavation, but from the Department of Architecture and Urban Planning and the Sofia Municipality issued a permit to strengthen an excavation in July 2022, although there is no permit for such excavation which the RDNC certified and subsequently January 2021 the accident took place. The expert technical committee being set up for several months does not come up with a decision. Consequently, after a media interest of July 2021, the RDNC referred to the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office with a request for declaration of construction permits for minor ones, which were approved several months earlier. After all, my question is: what have you found in relation to the work of the RDNC in relation to the case, and what measures can be taken by the RDNC on the implementation of the orders of the Chief Architect of Sofia Municipality in strengthening and restoring the street infrastructure by Mrs. Fandakova? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u44	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Arabadzhiev, The detailed plan for the district 170a in the town of Students, district of Sofia Municipality, together with the major streets, was approved by decision of the Sofia Municipal Council and amendment of the Plan for Regulation and Working Plan in the scope of UMI I-5448.5449 for residential construction, sports center, shops, offices, public service, children's center, underground garages and trafost, and in UPI-2 for residential construction, shops, offices, public service, medical center, school center, underground garages and Trafopost, approved by the Order to correct the obvious factual error of the chief architect of Sofia Municipality. According to the existing PUP for the properties is provided a high building of 74.75 m and landscaping of at least 40%. With regard to what you have stated in the request for validation of the building permits by the RDNC, we should note that RDNC Sofia does not validate the building permits issued by the approval authority. The same ones are certified by the municipal administration. In this regard, these process authorisations were certified by a Griff "Entertainment' on 5 November 2020. Regarding the issue concerning the non-resolving of problems with the current excavation in October 2020, we should note that at this time there was no complete mass excavation but only excavations were carried out at a shallow depth in relation to the displacement of existing technical infrastructure in the property, in this case an electrical cable and a street plumbing. For them were issued by the chief architect of the district of Studentski "Sofia Municipality," building permits. On the occasion of the notification received at the RDNC, Sofia, as a building supervisor, which informed that on 11 January 2021 there was an accident of the same due to bad weather conditions, by RDNC officials was carried out an inspection of the case. During the verification of the two above-mentioned constructions, an accident was identified, consisting of a lowering of land mass in the excavations, along with the construction fence and part of the pavement to December 8th. At the time of the inspection, a partial excavation was completed, with variable depth in the different zones, which is partially reinforced with a concrete wall. It was found that on the north side of the trench, parallel to the pavement, a land mass was drawn into the pit approximately 25 m long, along with the construction fence and part of the pavement. The head of the RDNC Sofia has immediately taken follow-up action by issuing an order that immediately suspends the execution of all types of construction works, with the exception of measures to immediately secure the construction and reinforcement measures prescribed by a qualified technical person with a view to locating the accident and preventing damage to third parties and neighbouring properties. In addition, an order has been issued by the Head of RDNC Sofia, which has appointed a technical expert commission, which includes external experts, in order to identify the causes of the accident and to give subsequent mandatory instructions for the prevention of such new accidents and damages. In order to establish the alleged violations of the provisions of the Law against the guilty parties in the construction works, administrative criminal proceedings have been initiated, concluded with penal decrees issued. It is necessary to note that a project under Part Plan on Safety and Health is approved from the district of "Studentski" on 5 February 2021, in which it is regulated how the traffic will be carried out on the street of the 8th of December "Sofia." After completion of the work of the Technical Expert Commission, on the basis of art. 12, para. 6 of Ordinance No 1/2007 by the Head of the RDNC, Sofia, was issued an order authorising the continuation of the SMR of the process constructions, suspended by his order under strict compliance with the approved investment projects and the provisions of the ZUT and ordered immediate action to be taken on the processing of investment projects, so as not to affect municipal property properties, and after the approval of the same implementation should start immediately. If you want in the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u47	Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov, it should be made clear that this accident would not have been the case if the control bodies had respected their powers and had not allowed such an excavation. It should also be said that the builder received this change in PUP 2010 from the Municipal Construction Council for 75 meters, contrary to the general construction plan, which through the media pressure and all the activity that took place last July last year, the Municipal Council reduced according to the overall construction plan to 25 meters. But I'm gonna get some footage from the district administration, which clearly shows the size of the excavation before the accident, and when the RDNC hasn't established the existence of such a excavation, I'll give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u48	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. A hole? No. We proceed to the next question by the MP Georgi Mihailov concerning the definition of the concept of rural municipality. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues. By administrators from the region from which I was elected as MP, I was informed that the criterion for the number of rural municipalities has changed. It is deposed from 30 thousand to 15 thousand, thus dropping 16 municipalities with the definition of rural, among which are three municipalities with exceptional, with very serious traditions in the field of plant farming. This is Petrich, Sandanski and Gotse Delchev. In this way, conditions are created for difficulties in their subsidised agricultural sector and their participation in projects related to the Sustainability and Recovery Plan. My question to you is: what is your attitude to this issue and how could the problems of these three municipalities that they have, again, repeat, excuse, extremely serious and long-standing traditions in the field of plant farming be avoided? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Karadjov:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, the short answer is that two programmes with similar volume of supported activities support all municipalities. That is, that one part of the municipalities are reassigned according to another criterion, they will be able to receive funds for the same measures, only under another programme. Now I'm going to read you how this is happening. The new definition of rural municipality is formulated jointly by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. It shall be introduced for the new programming period 2021 for 2027 only for the purposes of the Cohesion Policy of the European Union and the demarcation between non-agricultural investments under the Strategic Plan for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Areas and investment under the Regional Development Programme. The Regional Development Programme is intended to finance municipal infrastructure measures and cultural heritage in the territory of urban municipalities, the Strategic Plan for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Areas to support similar measures in rural areas according to this new definition. In addition, in order to avoid the risk of white spots in access to European funds, the Regional Development Programme provides for exceptions from its territorial limits in terms of measures in industrial parks, healthcare, urban transport and tourism falling outside the scope of the Specialized Agricultural and Rural Development Plan, which will take place throughout the country. The definition should not affect the support of agricultural activities, including when obtaining a subsidy for plant farming, for fruiting and for vegetable production. In this regard, please note that with regard to support in agriculture and rural areas, the leading office is the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The sad thing that I can share with you here from my visits to this very different geographical terrain, such as climate features region, is that these areas and these municipalities that I am talking about have a virtually destroyed in terms of hydromeliorative infrastructure opportunity. My colleagues in the field paid attention to me, so I took the liberty of asking you. I understand that both programs can apply, but the point is not to miss the opportunity, because there literally has to restore the whole hydromeliorative infrastructure to hell. I have no idea which ministry is responsible for whether regional development or agriculture, but this, however divided between ministries, is very important for them. And I am glad that you have given me an answer, which will perhaps encourage the leaders of these municipalities that they can find a way to finance within this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u54	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. We continue to the next question by the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev on the safety of playgrounds in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Simidchiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. On the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria acts Ordinance No 1 of 2009 on the arrangements for the design and safety of the playgrounds adopted on the basis of art. 62, para. 11 of ZUT. The Regulation sets clear criteria for the type, condition and maintenance of playgrounds open to public use in the country and defines the Commission for the Protection of the User as a control body for their general safety. The Commission, for its part, formally refuses to control the state of the children's playgrounds open to public use, by parks and gardens for which no payment is required. After consulting lawyers, it became clear that their grounds for refusal were controversial. On the other hand, the Ordinance also defines specific responsibilities for the control of municipal councils, but even in the largest such council, the Sofia City Council does not have a control body for compliance with the regulations, which is the responsibility of the Ordinance, and according to the administration of the Sofia Municipal Council there is no legal basis for the application of such control on their part. In summary, there are regulatory ambiguities that are transferred in the absence of safety control of mass free and open to public playgrounds, and the result of this may be at the expense of children's health. In connection with the above, I address you the following question: will you engage in a legislative or legislative initiative within the framework of your powers, the purpose of which is to effectively protect the health and life of the Bulgarian children associated with the game on playgrounds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Simidchiev. By Decree No 1 of 2009, which was issued on the basis of art. 62, para. 11 of the Law on the Construction of the Area and issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works together with the Minister of Interior and together with the Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection. Under this regulation, the responsibility for compliance of a playground with the requirements of the Regulation lies with its owner. A owner of a playground within the meaning of this Regulation shall be the owner, tenant or concessionaire of the land property or of a building or part of a building on whose territory the playground is located. The owner of the playground should draw up a control plan and maintain it to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Safety Regulation. The control and maintenance plans under the Ordinance include: the periodic control shall be carried out by the owner of the site once every one to five months and the annual control shall be entrusted once every 12 months to a control body. Within the meaning of Regulation 1 of 2009 the control body is independent from the stakeholders a game control body assessed by an accredited accreditation body for compliance with the requirement of the Bulgarian State Standard N ISO 17020 "General criteria for the activities of the different types of control bodies as competent in the application of the regulatory requirements, standards, good practices and technical requirements relating to the safety of the playgrounds. In our country, the institution that has the power to accreditation control bodies, including playgrounds, is the Executive Agency. Notwithstanding those requirements of Regulation No 1 of 2009 to the owners of the playgrounds in the maintenance and control of the sites in the Ordinance, relevant control bodies are also defined by the institutions as follows: Commission for the protection of consumers for publicly available playgrounds whose owners are legal persons or natural persons and municipal councils. In addition to the Commission, the other are municipal councils for publicly available playgrounds, whose owners are municipalities. A review has been carried out in 2021 on the application of the requirements of the same Regulation and a proposal for changes has been drawn up, which is agreed with the institutions concerned directly applying the Regulation, professional organisations accredited control bodies. These are the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Consumer Protection Commission, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria and the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service. After re-conciliation of the changes with the signatory bodies, the project will be published for public consultation in accordance with art. 26 of the Law on Regulatory Acts on the Website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Public Consultation Portal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u59	Thank you very much for the comprehensive answer, Minister Karadjov. I sincerely hope that, together with civil society, we will be able to build a more working process in the interests of the health and safety of our children.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. We move on to the next question by the MPs Sevim Ali, Escheref Escheref and Fatme Ramadan about the poor state of operation and the need to rehabilitate Republican road III-208 from the branch for the village of Applechevo, municipality of Rouen, to the town of Aytos. Who will present the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the Republican road Sh-208 Provadia, which ended at the end of 2021, in the section from km 49+250 to km 82+749, however, the section from km 82+749 to km 92+465, was unfortunately not repaired. This time is the shortest one that connects Southeast Bulgaria to Northeastern. In addition, it is a major artery that serves all airports by citizens, students and students from all 39 settlements in the municipality of Rouen. In addition, during the summer tourist season service staff also use this route from the municipalities of Aitos and Karnobat, making it a road with a very intensive movement. The state of this road from the village of Applechevo to the town of Aytos as a result of the increased traffic and the daily passing of heavy goods vehicles towards the city of Varna, Shumen, Ruse, Burgas and so on and is extremely bad. The road surface is highly depreciated. In addition to network cracks and wear, there are already strong deformations that lead to a sharp increase in road accidents. The atmospheric conditions in recent years have also contributed to the destruction of this road section. In its current condition, this road section can even be safely wiped out by the Republican road network and the movement on it can not be called normal and safe, even at the lowest speed of movement. That's why, Mr. Minister, it leads to discontent in people and tension. In this regard, our question to you is: is rehabilitation and repair envisaged during the current 2022 of the road section from the village of Abelchevo, municipality of Rouen, to the town of Aitos from Republican Road No III-208?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. Come in for an answer, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House Ali and Escheref, Mrs. Ramadan! In the Plan-Programme for the repair of sections of the Republican Road Network from the first, second and third classes for the period 2022 to 2025, it was proposed that an ongoing repair of approximately 10 km from road III-208 in the Provadia section The period for the start of operations to restore the operational state of the track will be specified after the programme is validated and after the new repair season is started, which due to the still cold weather, the ban, which is usually until 15 March, has not been lifted since the actual laying of warm asphalt, of this technology, is not possible at current average temperatures. The main repair of more than 33 km from road III-208, passing through the Aytos Pass all the way, is in the final stage. This is the most convenient and short connection for the drivers from Varna region with the highway. The project is under Operational Programme "Regions in growth" (2014 "2020), the rehabilitation of the route is divided into two sub-projects and one is named "Participation 29" and "Participation 30." Division 29 is from the bridge over the dam. "Tsonevo" at 49 km, and the end is near 65 km, not far from the village of Vishna in the district of Bourgas. The construction works of the 29th section include the construction of a new construction of places with insufficient wearability, laying new asphalt concrete pavement throughout the whole area, leaving the asphalted streets, agricultural roads, restoration of the banquets, pavement of the road, drainage, renewed containment systems and so on. In section 30 the section has a length of 16,816 km and it starts near the village of Vishna and ends shortly before the intersection with the third-class road III-2085 Ruen. The project includes a complete replacement of the asphalt flooring and improvement of drainage, new curbs, boards, road signs and marking, including the repair of three bridge facilities over Kazan dere, over the Sazla dere river and over the Yablchevska river. The construction activities envisaged have already been implemented. For the two sections, Act 15 has been signed and we expect the appointment of a state admission commission to issue a permit for use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Would you like a line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, at the insistence of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of Municipal, the long-awaited and central level ended, as you said, over 20 years of major repairs 33 km from Provadia Road. This major repair really significantly improved the transport-service qualities of this road and be convinced that it will be more preferred as a route than before. It should be borne in mind that this road section does not only serve the routes from the municipality of Rouen and in general all municipalities in the region of Burgas, but is as you said, the most direct link between Varna and Burgas, between Shumen and Burgas and the most direct link from Varna and from Shumen to Trakia Motorway. But in order for the entire road section to be completed in general, Mr. Minister, it is necessary what the colleague said, and what you have added that this road section of the branch for the village of Abelchevo is to be rehabilitated to the branch for the village of Zetyovo, the municipality of Aytos. This is about 5 km from this road section, but in order to complete and ensure the maximum safety of the users of this road section, it is necessary to build these two circular intersections that we have talked about with you. One is before the city of Aytos, and the other is in the very settlement, and to really design and build the bypass of the city of Aytos.................................. a topic that we have discussed with you........ with the regional governor of Burgas and with the President of the Aytos Municipal Council in Aytos....................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I very well remember my answer to the bypass of Aytos and you know that at the moment, said in a simple language the ball is in the Aytos City Council, as far as the Road Infrastructure Agency......................... can not come and choose its own route and start working and designing it. The municipal council is the one making the decision, probably the mayor and the administration are preparing them for the route and preparing the plots. Only when a decision of the Municipal Council and a contract is given to the mayor is given and he concluded a contract with the Road Infrastructure Agency and the rest of the sessions continue with us and the funding for the specific site is bet. That's all I wanted to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. We move on to the next question by the MP Gunay Hewesmen about the extremely poor state of Republican road III-2305 on the territory of Regional Road Management Razgrad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u69	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Republican Road S-2305, 11-23 by Isperih "Yakim Gruevo" "Konevo and Zebil" is a third-class road, part of the Republic of Bulgaria's republican road network, passing along the territory of Razgrad district and Silistra district. Its length is 10.1 km on the territory of Razgrad region. The third-class road is of important social and economic importance for the region. It connects the municipality of Isperih with the district center of Silistra and the municipality of Glavinitsa, as well as the border crossings. The road is used daily by intensive heavy goods traffic and agricultural machinery serving the agricultural industry in the region of Isperih. In 2019 there was a patching of holes and deformations in the pavement with polymerized bitumen emulsion and a pressure fraction for only 46 sq. m and a little landscape. The third-class road is in extremely poor condition and needs timely major repairs. During the mine year, no repairs were carried out. However, in the previous years, the development of a project on which the necessary construction works can now be started to restore the operational state of the track. In order to ensure normal performance in order to ensure the safety and comfort of passengers, to reduce public pressure and the discontent of citizens, it is necessary to provide funds from the budget of the API for 2022, which will be used to cut the pavement, to lay a crushed stone with selected grainometry, to lay asphalt, to fill and align banquets and other activities in order to improve the overall condition of the road and the performance of the pavement to meet the requirements for the expected increased load capacity. In this regard, Minister, I ask you the following question: within what time will you take the necessary action to reconstruct Republican road S-2305 Isperih Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u70	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Hughesmen, very precisely in your presentation you said that the road was in very bad condition, unfortunately, left without the design for major repairs. In other words, in this year, the only option left for us is to maintain it under current maintenance, i.e. contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance. With regard to these 10 km, which are part of the Republican road network, namely road III-2305 Isperih The project will define both the specific repair and reconstruction activities necessary for this section and the estimated value of the construction works and their implementation period. Open procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of executive of construction and construction supervision will be carried out on a ready-made project. The third-rate road, as I said, is in poor condition and needs major repairs. Last year, no repairs were carried out except for those, I'd say, cosmetics, which you mentioned. In the previous years it has also not been commissioned to develop a project on which we can now start the necessary construction and repair works. Until the start of the main repair of the section, Regional Road Management Razgrad will continue to maintain the section through the Program for Current Repair. The activities to be undertaken to ensure the safe travel of drivers to the start of construction works are drainage and asphalt work on the pavement. The Agency's budget will provide the funds for 2022 Road Infrastructure to ensure the necessary repair support activities. The third-class road is of very important economic importance for the region by connecting the municipality of Isperih with the district of Silistra and the municipality of Tutrakan, as well as with the border crossing Tutrakan and Silistra. The road is used daily by intensive heavy goods traffic and agricultural machinery serving the agricultural industry in the region of Isperih.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line for you, Mr Hughesman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u73	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I must stress that the people in these four villages were really fed up and had scheduled for March 21st civil disobedience and protests, but with joint efforts with the head of the API we reassured the people. I personally thank you, as Deputy Prime Minister, as Minister of Regional Development, for making a commitment to at least this year to be patched up well enough to last until next year, and until then hopefully the project will be ready, to really start the real work and become a good European road. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u74	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. We continue to the next question by the National Representative Kostadin Stoykov concerning a procedure for changing the ownership of the street of Eltepe................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ You have the floor, Mr. Stoykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The municipality of Petrich has asked Mr. Minister an alarming question about the procedure for changing the ownership of the streets of Eltepe.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works replied that the completion of the API documentation was necessary, which was done as early as 16 June 2021, which the municipality of Petrich was informed of in due time. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is aware of the problem, but we are again addressing you in connection with the process of change of ownership. The Municipality of Petrich has repeatedly turned to MRDPB with questions about the busy intersection at km 70+602+02 in the regulation of the town of Petrich near the cemetery park and to residential and production sites, which continues to pose a danger to people and cars. We are witnessing every day at risk situations for pedestrians and cars. In connection with the above, Mr. Minister, I ask you to speed up the process of completing the process of changing the property of these streets. Please also carry out the necessary work to repair the road pavement in those areas in order to meet the same safety requirements and safe movement on a Republican road through which there has been proven intensive traffic. Mr. Minister, just to tell you that the investigations carried out by the municipal administration show that a minimum of 400 heavy goods vehicles pass daily, day and night in the direction of the two border crossing points located on the territory of the municipality. The road along which these heavy goods vehicles are being carried out is through a very populated area and the prerequisites for crashes, and God forbid, taking lives are everyday. Therefore, I ask you in an urgent order to bet the necessary funds and to carry out the necessary repairs to the streets described above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Stoykov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stojkov, in March 2021, the proposal was submitted to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works by the Municipality of Petrich and the Road Infrastructure Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. "Eltepe," ul. "Solunska," ul. "Stands" and "Stands" and "Stands." "Tsar Simeon " from public municipal to public state property. Following examination of the Ministry's file, it was necessary to provide additional documents which were provided by the Road Infrastructure Agency on 14 June 2021 respectively, and on 16 June 2021 the Ministry required that the documentation be completed and that the lengths of the sections of which ownership would be changed. The exact data has been established and the procedure has continued by requiring the signing of the Annex to the Argumentative Protocol between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Petrich of March 2021 to change ownership from public municipal to public state. Here I specify that in 1921 the Municipality of Petrich was renovated the water supply network in the streets of Eltepe. In 1921, the construction of the water supply network was completed, but in April 2021 the asphalt flooring was partially rebuilt and in separate sections the canvas was completely crushed and stone-based. In order to bring about a change of ownership, it is legally necessary to restore the operational state of the sections of the streets so that they meet the regulatory requirements for the third-class Republican road set out in the Roads Act and its Implementation Rules, and only then will this procedure, which you ask for, be completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Stoykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u79	Dear Minister, the Municipality of Petrich performed the repairs that were under the municipal budget. As you mentioned, the water mains were replaced, the sidewalks were renovated, protective facilities were built, but you are aware that it is not within the capacity of a municipal budget, especially in this calendar year the municipality to allocate the necessary funds to accommodate the municipal road in a third-class way from the Republican road network. In practice, this is impossible and that is why we are asking you to make provision for the necessary funds or to be allocated to the Municipality in order to be able to carry out the so important repairs. It's nice when you have time to get down to our area and see this road through what populated area it's going through. There are numerous residents living along the entire area. Once again, it's only a matter of time before an accident happens, and it's not nice to always go after events. Therefore, I ask you again, let the state reconsider its decision and provide for the necessary means to repair the streets described by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u80	Thank you, Mr. Stoykov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoykov, I am grateful to accept your invitation and will gladly visit the petri dish. I would like to draw your attention to the following fact, and it is that by law, any company that makes repairs to a water infrastructure or to a telecommunications infrastructure, or to an electricity infrastructure, is required to repeat the law to restore the floors in an absolutely fit operational state. It doesn't matter here whether the Municipality had funds or didn't, and it doesn't matter whether it was entered or not in the contract between the Municipality and the specific contractor. The contractor is obliged by law to return the pavement to the exact same operating condition in which he has found it and it must be that condition that is fit for use on a third-class road. Therefore, I call on you to speak with the mayor in order to force the contractor, and this was his obligation under contract and by law, to complete the pavement and immediately send the documentation that this thing was completed with Act 16, so that we could proceed with it and make the transfers of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Sandov is the next deputy prime minister to answer questions. Mr. Sandov is Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water and will answer three questions. The first question is from the National Representative Stefan Shilev on the preparation of the Strategy and Action Plan for the Transition to a circular economy of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021. Mr. Shilev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the Strategy and Action Plan for transition to the circular economy of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021 is an important instrument which, if applied correctly, will bring our country closer to developed European countries, where economic growth is related to environmental protection, resource recovery, waste hierarchy, with the thought of future generations. By Decision No 3 of 19 July 2021 of Minister Assen Litchev it is decided not to carry out an environmental assessment of the draft document. Unfortunately, the Project of the Strategy and Action Plan did not take into account a very important sector, namely the resource. The document only mentions the waters in two places. First of all, an analysis of the effect of re-use of water on different crops and secondly, an amendment to the Regulation on the quality of water for irrigation of crops. For both activities the leading institution is the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the MOEW in this case is not actually included in these activities. We must not forget that the European Parliament adopted Regulation 2020/741 on the minimum requirements for the re-use of agricultural waters in order to promote this use, i.e. regenerated waters, to mitigate climate impact, but also to adapt to climate change. In addition, as stated by the caretaker government, the project will be developed by representatives of various other departments and will be finalised January or early February 2022 and submitted for approval to the Council of Ministers. In this regard, my question to you is: will the Strategy and the plan for transition to a circular economy of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2021 be complemented with the mandatory measures and activities to promote the reuse of water? Where is the project currently located in the last six or seven months and why there is no movement on it, and maybe there is? How do you see your role as Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy in coordinating, managing and implementing this strategy, and in particular the re-use of water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shilev, I agree with the documents quoted by you and the conclusions of them regarding the European strategic and Bulgarian strategic documents related to the circular economy. The regulation that you are quoting has also been taken into account and is therefore an activity at stake: Analysis of the effect of the re-use of water on different crops and certain measures to support the implementation of the EU Regulation/2020/741. Reuse of water is actually the use of purified water from sewage treatment plants. Reuse of water cannot be carried out without an analysis of purified water such as chemical, agrochemical characteristics and for what crops would be appropriate. It is not possible to proceed directly to their reuse and therefore the activity itself is also at stake. By Order No P-165 of 8 October 2021 of Prime Minister Stefan Yanev to him was established an Interdepartmental Working Group on which one of the tasks was to revise the draft strategy and action plan for transition to a circular economy within three months from the date of issue of the order. According to the information available at the Ministry of Environment and Water, the working group has not been gathered at a meeting at the time. In view of this fact, an overview and update of the draft Strategy and Action Plan for transition to a circular economy of the Republic of Bulgaria is currently being carried out in the Ministry of Environment. The strategy will be complemented by current requirements concerning European legislation. Regarding the third part of your question, how do I see my role? I see it as an engine of this process, because the really led by me Ministry in its prerogatives is also to exercise control, but also the activities of policymaking and strategic documents in this area, and otherwise it also concerns other departments, other ministries. You know, the Water sector is in several different departments as responsibilities, but I clearly see its role as Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies in the direction of coordinating these activities, promoting individual departments for more focused, coordinated and more effective work in this direction. For my part, I have entrusted the Deputy Minister who is responsible for the waste sector, as well as the Deputy Minister who is responsible for the sector of water, to rework and to make this strategy more effective, more harmonious with European new practices and strategies and documents, so that it can be for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. You have the floor for further questions, Mr. Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. In fact, my line would have been exactly in this spirit that from its humble position as MP my opinion is just like yours that the role of the Deputy Prime Minister in climate change is exactly such as to synchronise the actions of the other ministries. For example, in the last GERB government, the Deputy Prime Ministers were actually responsible for different ministries, that is to say, for you would be the Ministry of Agriculture, of Energy, possibly, of the MRDP in terms of climate change, I mean, because, as you know, the Ministry of Agriculture is the main user of the reuse of water, and of course, when we talk about reuse, we are talking about precisely these purified or regenerated waters. On the other hand, here are also the Ministry of Energy, as for this purification significant resources will go from energy perspective. And last but not least, the Ministry of Regional Development, which is actually the owner of the treatment facilities, so from this point of view, the information that you gave me, I am pleased with the answer and hopeful. Unfortunately, as you said, three months was the operation of the task force, which did not actually produce any results, there was no gathering. Just to clarify that the Regulation starts to apply from 26 June 2023, that is to say, it would be good for us to have not only the basic document, but also measures to promote the use of these waters, but also to have the analysis of the effect of these waters on crops under our conditions, although we really know what the quality of waste water is in most treatment plants, the presence or absence of priority substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Now you have three more minutes to respond, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u89	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shilev, yes, this group has not gathered and has not held these meetings. As I said in the first part of the reply, we are currently reviewing this document because I have to admit that there are some serious deficits in it and we will assign a new such working group or we will use the other instrument, which is the Advisory Council on the Green Deal at the Council of Ministers, which will be chaired by me and, in fact, through the committees created to it we will try to activate this work as well, because you are right that we cannot wait behind the base document for the strategy next year. When the Regulation enters into force, we must be prepared for it. Through this mechanism, I hope that we will be able to achieve these objectives in time. To this end, it is necessary, in addition to expert work, involving stakeholders, to complete some of the projects that are under the Operational Programme "Environment" in the sector "Waters" because it is also true that not all treatment plants, not all waste water treatment facilities operate in such a way that we have this purified water so that it can be put back into the circular economy and used effectively for the needs of different industries and sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. You have the opportunity to express your attitude. No. Thank you. As I announced about an hour ago, I am giving 30 minutes off and inviting the MPs to the opening of the exhibition presented by the Union of Thracian Companies. It will also be opened by the President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u91	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! I'm resuming the hearing. We are continuing with the next question to Borislav Sandov, Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water. The next question is from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva on the construction of a waste water treatment plant in the town of Petrich and the bringing infrastructure. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to the construction of a waste water treatment plant in the town of Petrich and an infrastructure that provides supply of external plumbing, extracting a collector and transport access. On 2 April 2021, a procedure was opened for the construction of a waste water treatment plant in the town of Petrich and the bringing infrastructure 141,000. 913,49 lv. without VAT. In the framework of the open procedure for participation, the following companies are requested: On 24 November 2021, a decision was taken to terminate the procedure on the grounds that each of the companies submitting documents to participate in the procedure did not comply with one or another requirement or did not meet certain requirements included in the tendering procedure. After termination of the procedure, none of the participating companies has objected or contested the reasons for its removal from the procedure, which in turn unties the hands of the mayor of Petrich Municipality Dimitar Brckov to switch to direct negotiation, and on 23 December 2021 he published again as a way of contracting without prior notice of the above-mentioned project of the company United Group. The interesting thing is that the same company, the United Group, was removed from the procedure with reasons that it did not meet certain requirements for participation in this tender procedure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is: is there a violation of the procedure under the Public Procurement Act and what action has the Ministry of Environment and Water taken against the mayor of the town of Petrich Dimitar Brichkov in order to establish the violations in the municipality of Petrich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Vasileva, honored guests! By Decision of the Governing Council of the PPOOS under Protocol of 22 December 2020, the grant of this grant, which you are talking about, is approved, I will not quote it. In this regard, the Public Procurement Act indicates to the Municipality of Petrich that it should provide documentation for the conduct of a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor of the Project. Following the submission of the documentation for the conduct of the open procedure, the Municipality of Petrich was notified of observations on the submitted project. Fixed documentation has not been sent for coordination in the PDA and the order has been published in the Central Automated Information System. The procedure was subsequently terminated and the contracting authority accepted that all tenders submitted were inappropriate. On 15 December 2021 the Municipality of Petrich asked the PPOOS about the possibility of applying art. 79, para. 1, t. 1 of the Public Procurement Act, namely the conduct of negotiations without prior notice, without waiting for a reply from the PUP, on 23 December 2021 the Municipality of Petrich published the contract. The deadline for receipt of tenders shall be 5 January 2022, namely 5 days. The documentation of the negotiated without prior notice was not submitted for prior control by the PUP and the PUP did not consent to conduct a negotiated procedure without prior notice, nor did it agree with the terms of the contract itself. I note that the Municipality has negotiated without prior notice with the same subject matter by inviting two of the four participants in the previous procedure, whose tenders have already been considered inappropriate without changing the terms of the contract, and there are no grounds for such actions. There are no reasons why all participants from the previous procedure were not invited and why participants whose offers are inappropriate are invited. Only one of the invited participants submitted an offer and the same was involved in the previous procedure in a merger. The only participant is selected as the contractor of the contract. The company finances the implementation of environmental projects and activities by public funds and strictly observes to the maximum extent the implementation of the principles of the Law on Equality and non-discrimination, free competition, proportionality, publicity and transparency, which is why it has informed the Municipality that it expects a correction of documentation for the conduct of an open procedure in order to protect the public interest. By letter dated 24 February this year, the Municipality of Petrich requested the negotiation already held without prior notice to be approved by the PUP, believing that the decision was lawful. In view of the above, a meeting between the Municipality and representatives of the company was held at the PPOOS on 16 March. At the meeting, the position of the PUPOS was confirmed that it expects an open procedure to be conducted with an object which has already been cited. On March 21st this was last week, the Municipality of Petrich informed the PPOOS that it terminated the negotiated procedure without notice and after the entry into force of the decision would announce a new open procedure. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that the PUP does ex ante, current and ex post controls on the lawful, effective and appropriate spending of public funds. And so far, there is no signed contract with the Municipality of Petrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u95	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Would you like a line, Mrs. Vassileva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, all I can say is that I am glad that the procedure has been stopped because this procedure is not a precedent. It is simply one of the thousands used, unfortunately, by the mayors of the Republic of Bulgaria, to circumvent the Public Procurement Act. In this case, it is good that the institutions were in their place and were able to literally prevent the theft of 16 million. BGN as much as the estimated value of this order. But purely out of curiosity, since you mentioned in your reply that there were comments on the documentation completed for this order: was there all the co-ordination procedures of this project, for example, with RIEW So ways to stop such corrupt practices... I'm saying this completely openly because we all know what this is about. Again, the only joy in this case is that the institutions were still in their place and managed to prevent such a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Vasileva, since we have received the information from the competent authorities only in connection with the Public Procurement Act, I am not ready to answer your question immediately as to whether all other requirements for such an order have been met? I am using the question you have asked me, if you want you can officiallyize it in order to check whether the rest of the documentation and the procedure of all other requirements outside the Public Procurement Act, including coordination and what projects with the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in Blagoevgrad and possibly with the Swimming Directorate. Thank you. I've got some more information for you. [[Provides documents of the National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. We move on to the next question to Borislav Sandov, which is also Victoria Vasileva. I apologize, there was a statement. After the declaration, Mrs. Vasileva. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mrs. Zarkin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! 100 days of management 100 crises, 100 steps towards change. The change is long awaited and urgent, but we must be realistic and assume that it takes time. A time we believe the wise Bulgarian society will give us. And yet what did we do? We protected Bulgarian households from the sharp rise in electricity prices. Then we urgently adopted changes in the KEWRC so that we could have a Regulator that really works in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. We created a mechanism for helping the Bulgarian business, which allows Bulgarian enterprises to continue to work and to be competitive. We also had to make changes in Bulgargas to make sure that no more suspicious deals were made that harmed the State Company. We showed for the first time in 12 years that Bulgaria could be a leader in the enlargement process of the European Union, which is strategically important for Bulgaria and our national interest. We adopted at first reading amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, with which we will close the specialized court and prosecutors who became a bat against the Bulgarian citizens and the main reason Bulgaria should be condemned for millions of levs for benefits of persons repressed by specialized justice. We have built a new model for responding to the coronavirus crisis, which has allowed us to deal with the wave of Omicron, while at the same time ensuring the functioning of business, including the most affected sectors. Despite the opposition's fierce opposition, we adopted a budget that, for the first time in years, bets real, ambitious capital investments to remove Bulgaria from the oligarchic swamp in which it is stuffed. In this way Bulgaria will be able to move its economy, attract new investments and not rely solely on money from Europe. We built a huge system on its scale that welcomed the unprecedented refugee wave from Ukraine by securing the shelter and livelihood of tens of thousands fleeing the war. This prevents the potential chaos that would result from the immense number of people who will settle in Bulgarian cities and villages. We took action to protect Bulgarian citizens from the danger of a shocking increase in the price of bread products buying grain and wheat for the state reserve. We have also secured fuel supplies in a really difficult environment in which we have witnessed a hybrid attack with the spread of false news, some of which are supported by opposition representatives. We defend the Bulgarian interest with proposals for the European Union to purchase natural gas as a common entity, which will allow us to negotiate better conditions and lower prices. We have activated actions to complete the interconnector with Greece, whose construction has been delayed for 10 years... [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Liar! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u101	Please, no lines from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u102	...and by the end of this year, it will work. This will allow us to reduce our dependence on Russian gas supplies. We have revised the poor Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which GERB did not even dare to present to the European Commission. [[strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] [[Noise and lines.]] The plan prepared by us ensures the possibility of real investment and more complete and effective absorption of the planned funds. 100 days of unprecedented crisis and numerous actions taken by the state, but most importantly, all decisions are made transparently and with zero tolerance for corruption. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We address all Bulgarian citizens: we rely on your trust and believe that each of us brings change and will be part of it. [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and shouts: "Bravo!"]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Zarkin. Procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova. I'm just reminding you that after your declaration, there were no procedures. Doesn't sound like a replica of the declaration, though, does it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u106	...in the manner of conduct. When declarations and statements are made, do not tell the truths of this tribune, especially when we are talking about the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Because the Recovery and Sustainability Plan has been delayed for a year now. He's back for review. [[(Replies from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u107	Expected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u108	I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u109	Mrs. Angelkova, I understand the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u110	I'm done. I would like to ask: is this plan delayed by the government because they are negotiating investments with a fund of various close leaders to build battery plants or for some other reason?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u111	Thank you. You surprised me with this procedure, I admit it. I will request all the declarations that have been made today to see where there are factual inaccuracies in them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u112	One more procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u113	I'm listening. Temenuzhka Petkova is first with procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is also to you in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. Do not let this tribune tell lies or at least... [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] You read declarations, but don't tell lies. Colleague MP Zarkin told another lie related to the interconnector Greece. How many times do you have to explain that this interconnector isn't built for 10 years, colleagues? Once and for all find out, sit down, read and see the materials! The construction began in October 2019 to be ready... [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. MP, in order to do this, this gas from Azerbaijan must come something. Do you know how many projects had to be implemented in order for the Azeri gas to come to Europe? [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] The Trans-Anatolian and Trans-Adriatic gas pipeline! Do you know when they were ready?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u115	Mrs. Petkova, this is still a procedure in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u116	Do you know when they were ready? This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So please check your facts and don't tell this tribune of lies and manipulations. Don't manipulate the Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Colleagues, it's not really about making statements about each other. In the end, there was... [[Heckling]] No, it's not. It's nice. There was, after all... [[Heckling]] Lies don't lie, it's a declaration. Don't call from the spot! [[Sighs:?!]] Don't yell at me from a place, please! What is the meaning of this? Parliamentary groups are entitled, within 10 minutes, to take their own decisions and say, but the important thing is not to be offensive to others. Then we can make a remark, but then we shouldn't be saying statements. I'm very well-meaning to say it to everyone. Indeed, in the framework of today's parliamentary control, there was... I think that's a third declaration. It is not right for parliamentary groups to speak to each other in the form of procedures. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. I will deal with your speech a little while ago, and I will actually ask other questions. Last Friday, I asked you what was going on... [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Excuse me? If there's anything you want to say, this is the place. Last Friday I paid attention to you that the Council of Ministers did not implement a decision of the National Assembly to provide a report on the state of the southern Bulgarian border with Turkey, which was adopted by a decision of the National Assembly. The Council of Ministers from the beginning of February to the beginning of March had to submit such a report. As far as I can see, there is some report adopted by the Council of Ministers, but I would like to know if it has been submitted to the National Assembly and how can we get acquainted with it? The second thing I would like to draw your attention to is: in the Forty-Sixth National Assembly, I remember a Member of the National Assembly who was severely punished for some torn jeans, but apparently the man did not know that he could actually come to work in shorts. The third thing I would like to ask you is: yesterday, as far as I can see from social media, there was a meeting between the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I think it's interesting for all of us here to find out what happened at this meeting, and what topics have been discussed? If you could ask, because the Foreign Minister is also in the Chamber, to introduce us to the topics discussed at this meeting, and what arrangements have taken place between the two governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u119	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. In the order of your points. The first one, I have the same information that you have. At the moment, I think there is no report submitted to the National Assembly to consider. It's off-limits, you're absolutely right here. Point two. I'm sorry, it was about... [[Heckling]] For shorts. I didn't see any shorts. [[Heckling]] Okay. Yes, I accept that dress should be respectful to the institution. I absolutely agree with that. Point three. Of course, any member of the Council of Ministers may, when he decides, take the floor on a matter which is off the agenda. The agenda for the moment is Parliamentary control. Alexander Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Although you think I'm going to say something about the procedure expressed by my colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" for the hundred days of their management, I will not comment on it. She was quite meaningful, I think. But I will address you with the following: a committee has been set up, to which Bulgarian citizens and parliament had placed many expectations, and I will ask you: Do you, as President of the National Assembly, know if a meeting has ever taken place......................................................................................................... was held?........................................................................................................................... It's about the Temporary Committee on Constitutional Change. You, as the head of the National Assembly, should know and introduce us as MPs whether such an initiative has been conducted at all, whether they have gathered, whether they have discussed something, or whether they are merely being paid by fellow MPs participating in this committee? I will not make an analogy with anything else at all, except to say that the work of this government is being carried out quite consciously in one event, even since yesterday, which I support it, to support Ukraine, many ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, deputy prime ministers, MPs were there, and what are we doing here as solutions? This, I think, is more relevant to say, what decisions does the government make? Because protests are nice to have, happenings, rallies, but real decisions and actions when a person is empowered to make decisions is already much more important than what he says in the square or with a declaration. The power is in you, use it skillfully, do it for the good of the people. That's my advice to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u121	Thank you for your advice within the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sandov. Colleagues, I suggest that we continue with parliamentary control afterwards. Excuse me, Professor? [[Heckling]] I'm suggesting, though? [[Heckling]] I don't take it personally, but at the end of the day, doing our job is the only idea I have. That's all I take personally. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I took the liberty of taking this line because it is a line to all those procedures that GERB is currently using, which I think is being abused by the procedural rules, in an attempt to respond to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u123	You're not the guy who's gonna give us an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u124	Please don't replicate me from a place, stop acting like hooligans in this room. Stop it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] It doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u125	Colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u126	If you claim to have ruled this country in such a good way for so long, then with your behavior at the moment, you are actually categorically confirming the opposite thesis. [[Heckling]] Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u127	No discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u128	I have a right, I have access to this tribune, and I can do that evaluation, because in front of me, all these trials happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u129	A little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u130	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u131	You do not need to use procedures to respond to declarations. As it became clear, your declarations are not answered by procedures.. disguised lines. Anyway, I can't help but think about the last one because someone speculates about what happened yesterday, which I was also involved in. This was a peaceful procession in support of Ukraine, it was not a protest against the government even less to speculate that one of us was involved in a protest against himself. In addition, the government is doing a lot for the situation that has been provoked by the Russian invasion in Ukraine. He does a lot for refugees, he does a lot for international relations now and the imposition of sanctions. She's doing a lot of work right now, so I took the liberty of taking the floor further with regard to the relocation of funds to the CARE instrument in support of refugees from Ukraine. He has also done much to meet, accommodate and secure the needs of refugees from Ukraine. So please, at least don't speculate on this subject. Otherwise, whether we should build the pipeline only when the gas comes to the border and why we are doing the project 10 years earlier, Mrs. Petkova, I think it is clear to all Bulgarian citizens. Did we have to do the same thing with the other stream that's with the Russian gas? Because it happened very quickly, suddenly somehow and in violation of some regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u132	Ask BSP if they agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u133	As for the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, I can assure you that it is currently improving significantly and that... [[Noise and lines.]] That's right, Mr. Bikov, yes, because the government of GERB prepared him in a way in which to obviously satisfy someone's interests, but not in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, we couldn't turn it all over, but we've improved it significantly and it will only be signed in the coming weeks. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u134	Thank you. Okay, Professor Angelov. And indeed, colleagues, I suggest that we continue with parliamentary control afterwards. After all, we've got him all day on this, 16 more questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I ask you very much, then, when the present, especially Deputy Prime Minister, who is trying to hold a tone of opposition and to teach the Bulgarian opposition what is allowed in the Chamber and what is not, please make a remark to him. We saw that the Minister of Interior is trying to put the Bulgarian opposition behind bars, we saw that this was committed in wrongdoing. But since you made an appeal, Mr. Chairman, to work and continue to work, last week I was in a meeting with my constituents in Veliko Tarnovo who asked me what was going on with the compensations related to the increased prices of electricity and gas. I assured them that a temporary committee was established in the National Assembly, which a Temporary Commission aims to resolve all these issues. So, my question is to you as this temporary committee was chaired by a representative of the ruling majority, have they introduced a report on their work, this temporary committee, which has done its job more than months ago and we have not heard this report. There is no closure of this committee, is there any proposed measures in this report to reduce these prices, or do they remain in the sphere of promises for improving the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, for the bright future, for all that will not happen and is practically part of your program, which is rather an artistic work with fantastic inclinations? Tell me this report when to expect it, and did this committee do its job, does it work, what happens to this temporary committee? You, as chairman, must exercise control over the work of temporary committees and of all others. So we work, I want to work. Tell me how we work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u136	Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u137	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u138	What a waste of parliamentary control, not a waste of 20 minutes! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, I'm listening, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to do a procedure in the manner of conduct. I wouldn't have reacted if a member of the Council of Ministers didn't allow himself to call the parliamentary group Huligans. With such behavior, you are being hooligan, I quote. Furthermore, Mr President, please, when someone acting as a temporary minister, whether it be to the Ministry of the Interior, whether it be to the Ministry of the Environment, or someone else stands on this parliamentary stand and gives assessments of any MP or his conduct, take him away. Firstly, because in this particular case, this gentleman does not know from what he is talking about the parliamentary group of GERB, which has over 600,000 voters in the last elections. By comparison, his party, association, organization and so on, I don't really know what it's called, has 0.17% or 5554 votes. [[Applause GERB-SDS.]] So don't give me an evaluation, sir, don't give me an evaluation, sir! [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "They have to earn their bonuses. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u140	Okay. We get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u141	And you, Mr. Chairman, I ask that in any case you take the floor of a self-forgotten acting minister. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u142	Yeah. We're all temporarily in our current positions. Mrs. Petkova? Why a personal explanation? [[Radio, noise.]] To what, Mrs. Petkova? Let it be procedure, come on now, personal explanation. Here's the procedure. Did he hurt you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u143	Well, I'm affected, yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, first of all, on the topic related to the interconnector Greece. I also call on you to analyse all the facts and circumstances related to the realization of this project. And if you do, you will see that this project became possible only thanks to the government of Prime Minister Borisov. We made the project possible, as much as you don't want it to be. You have a few dozen miles left to finish by the end of 2021, and you have failed with a bang. At the moment, there is not even a contract that regulates the relationship between the contracting entity and the contractor. You left the Project in the void, and you will be responsible for it very soon. And another topic related to what you said about the Balkan Stream, about this project as well. See the decision of the National Assembly of November 2018 and there you will see that this project has become possible with the consent of the Bulgarian Parliament without a single vote against. There are very clearly described the conditions that the government should comply with in order to implement this project. We have done nothing against the will of the Bulgarian people. So I suggest you get acquainted with the decision of the Parliament of November 2018 and there will become clear to you many things. And one more thing. Make a reference to who the Minister of Energy signed a contract the other day related to the construction of batteries. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u144	Mrs. Vassileva, you have the floor for... Come on, Mr. Bojankov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u145	That is because GERB used, you will allow me, Mr. Chairman, only one procedure, although they did a dozen. I don't know what kind of eyes you're talking to about these energy projects. You should be a little worried, tell me more about the rides of ARCAD's SUVs, do they ride well, do they ride badly? [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS, Applause by]] And it is a project that, leave to what extent Bulgaria has made energy dependent only on one side, because 12 years of not making diversification, I do not want to qualify it to give you a reason for comments. Anyone can come to the conclusion. But what you've done, it's yet to give rise to investigations, it's yet to give rise to scandals. Do you know how this pipe was built? Do you know how it's built? Do you know what the quality of this pipe is? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u146	How do you know?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u147	There is no one who does not know because the workers who built the pipe sleep in Gorna Oryahovitsa. They tell how the pipe was built and signed contracts that they would not share information, but sooner or later these people would become protected witnesses. They'll tell us what happened to that pipe. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u148	Procedure, Mrs. Mihaylova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u149	My procedure, unlike all the speeches that you have allowed, is in the way it really is. We have an agenda, there are questions waiting for months. These issues relate to the regions. There are people waiting to hear the answers to these questions. You, Mr. Chairman, allow shootings here, allow unacceptable behaviour by a minister to MPs, allow too much with some apathy and boredom, which I can no longer look at and call you to take the role of President of the National Assembly and to lead, not just to attend the Chamber. [[Elevator bell dings]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u150	No, no offense. Come on. Ms. Mihailova is absolutely right as a matter of fact. Indeed, what you have said and the questions that concern the regions are absolutely true, fellow Members. Again, I call on you, let us continue with the essence of today's work, namely to obtain from the executive information on current issues that have asked Members of the National Assembly, some of which are indeed long-standing. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u152	Colleagues, please, be quiet and then let's move on to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u153	My procedure is in the way of leading you, entirely to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u155	You allowed this tribune in addition to telling lies, you allowed the Rules to be violated, you allowed to hear the most important questions precisely in parliamentary control. And colleague Bojankov, being so up-to-date and a good lawyer, and when there are signals, there are organs in which he should bring them in, not keep quiet, stay and mush like Mickey Mouse.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u156	No offense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u157	So, please, make a remark to him, and to everyone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u158	Mrs. Alexandrova, please, no offense. Let's continue now with Mrs. Vassileva with a question about an illegal landfill on the territory... [[Noise and lines.]] All right, here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I address our guests, our young guests today at the National Assembly and I would like to tell you, children, that this is not the normal daily work of the National Assembly. You're attending something that's an exception, I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u160	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Ms. Vasileva, we are listening to a question about an illegal dump site in the village of Kavrakirovo, Petrich municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, after this very interesting discussion and a waste of time of the National Assembly to return a little to reality with one of my favorite topics, namely the unregulated landfills in the country, which unfortunately turn our beautiful homeland into something extremely unpleasant. My specific question is related to an illegal dump on the territory of the village of Kavrakirovo in the municipality of Petrich. Following numerous signals from residents of the village of Kavrakirovo, municipality of Petrich, to RIEW, Blagoevgrad, in connection with an illegal landfill in the village territory on 16 June 2021, a check was carried out by officers of the Inspection and was drawn up the Constitutional Protocol No 43-25 of 16 June 2021. The huge dimensions of the landfill and its uncontrolled character were found and the protocol was signed and served by Mr. Rumen Kalupsov. Unfortunately, in about two months it will be almost one year after the check of the RIEW. The dump isn't just removed, it's growing and it's getting more and more terrifying. My question and my appeal to you is: why is it that one year after the inspections of the RIEW dump has not yet been removed, and what administrative criminal measures will you take against the mayor of Petrich Mr. Brckov for failing to comply with the regulations of the Inspection? What will the MOEW take to end the practice of the self-forgotten mayors who use the fines imposed by the RIEW because of the fact that they are extremely low we pay our fine and continue to pile up unregulated landfills? I've applied photos to the question, you've seen them most likely.. terrible sizes of the dump and in terrible condition is the entire outskirts of the village of Kavrakirovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, last year the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters.. Blagoevgrad carried out four extraordinary checks for the presence of uncontrolled pollution in the village of Kavrakirovo and further controls were carried out. It is the mayor of the municipality of Petrich who is responsible for their implementation that includes: cleaning and directing waste to the Regional depot of Petrich. During the checks were invited and the senders of the signals were present. As a result of the verification carried out on 16 June 2021 of Mr. Dimitar Brchkov, acting as mayor of the municipality, an act establishing an administrative infringement was drawn up. As a result of the subsequent inspection carried out on 5 October 2021 by the RIEW, Blagoevgrad, on the territory of the municipality of Petrich, including the land of the village of Kavrakirovo, was also drawn up an act establishing an administrative infringement on the grounds of art. 151, para. 2, p. Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 19th para. 3, p. 15 of the Waste Management Act. The Director of the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters of Blagoevgrad issued criminal decrees, two in number, respectively 9-25 more are evident, from 14 December 2021 and 3-03 of 14 February 2022, which have not yet entered into legal force, given that they are currently being appealed to the District Court of Justice of Petrich. In conclusion, the environmental and water inspection as a control body shall take all necessary action in accordance with the laws given to it. Where infringements are detected, mandatory prescriptions shall be given within a specified time limit for their removal and, in the event of non-compliance, acts shall be drawn up to establish administrative infringements. The failure to form unregulated landfills is a matter of control by the mayor of the municipality in this case Mr. Brckov. Perhaps these sanctions are indeed very low, allowing legal requirements to be ignored and allowing a number of such uncontrolled landfills in the territory of much of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u164	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Would you like a line, Mrs. Vassileva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, every Friday we may ask ourselves dozens of questions about unregulated landfills throughout the country. The question is that we must take steps to resolve this issue radically. And I'll tell you, it's not just the amount of fines the state will impose on the mayors, it depends, after all, on morality and on the attitude towards the institutions of the respective mayor. I take this opportunity to thank you on my behalf and on behalf of the residents of the municipality of Radomir, you know that somewhere two months ago I asked you a question about an illegal dump. The RIEW carried out an inspection in the municipality of Radomir and made provisions by 25 February for this uncontrolled landfill to be completely liquidated. I have to tell you, there's not a single speck of dust in there right now, and there's no sign of this uncontrolled dump. So there are mayors who take the prescriptions and remarks of the institutions seriously, but there are mayors who just don't care about the fines you impose on them, or the acts you draw up for them, the example with Petrich is obvious. Because if this mayor really wanted to liquidate this dump, he had almost a whole year. The fact is, he didn't lift a finger to do anything. I doubt he'll do that, including after he's paid, for God's sake, the act of administrative misconduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You don't want a hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We've run out of questions for Borislav Sandov. Thank you, Mr. Sandov, for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of Teodora Gencovska, Minister of Foreign Affairs. The first question is from the MP Kostadin Kostadinov concerning problems of Bulgarian citizens living in the Republic of Northern Macedonia related to their personal cars with Bulgarian license plates. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Gencovska, at the beginning of March we were informed by both Bulgarian and Macedonian citizens and by double citizens of Bulgaria and Macedonia that there is a problem with the border authorities at the points between Bulgaria and Macedonia regarding Bulgarian cars owned by Macedonian citizens. Since the beginning of this month, the expiry of March, by the border authorities of the Republic of Macedonia or as recently known Not once and not twice, repeatedly requested information, as well as written order, regulation or any law on the basis of which to carry out these actions, but such documents have not been provided. For one part of these Bulgarian citizens who are involved in transport and their vehicles are mostly trucks with Bulgarian numbers, this means that they cannot work because the Bulgarian documents and registration numbers provide them access to the whole of Europe. What is important is that from the very beginning, literally from the first day to the day at the Bulgarian Embassy in Skopje, there have been many complaints on this occasion, at least that is what the people I have spoken to say, but so far there is no result and nothing has been answered. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what is the reason why these citizens of our country are not allowed on the territory of the country with their personal cars with Bulgarian registration and why our embassy does not respond to the complaints submitted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u168	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Madam Secretary. Before that, I would just like to say Mr. Gazhev, I was informed that the report was submitted to the National Assembly's Office a few minutes ago and will be sent to your emails. Here you go, Mrs. Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, from the beginning of March this year at the Embassy of Bulgaria in Skopje and the Consulate General in Bitola began to receive signals, as you said, of citizens with dual citizenship, that they face obstacles from the customs authorities of the Republic of Northern Macedonia when crossing the state border with cars registered in Bulgaria. Up to now, nearly 200 people have said they are not allowed to come and go from the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The complaints state that the local customs and border authorities in oral form inform them that they cannot enter and leave the country with heavy-duty and light-duty vehicles registered in Bulgaria without issuing a relevant document stating a legal basis and/or making official recommendations for taking action on the re-registered of motor vehicles, changing the permanent address of residence in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, submitting an official note from the Bulgarian employer. To clarify the situation, the embassy in Skopje held and continues to hold meetings with local authorities. A new law on the registration of cars with foreign registration numbers has been in force since 22 December 2020. Under the law, cars with foreign license plates should be reregistered and fully comply with the provisions of local legislation. Authorities in the Republic of Northern Macedonia point out that vehicles with foreign registrations, the largest percentage of them have Bulgarian registration numbers, are not registered under local law, although they are resident for more than 180 days in the country, and the permanent address of the owner's residence is not abroad, but on the territory of the country. However, the entry data of a car with a foreign registration is easy to find when conducting a cross-check by local agencies.. Customs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On 21 March this year, the temporarily managing Embassy of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in Sofia was called for a conversation at the Foreign Ministry with the aim of expressing concern about what is happening, obtaining official information, including the legal basis on which the customs and border authorities of the Republic of Northern Macedonia do not allow vehicles to enter or exit with Bulgarian registration, most often managed by double citizens. On the part of the representative of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, it was reported that the actions of the Customs Agency of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the past years were also aimed at vehicles with foreign registration other than Bulgarian, currently not limited to the border crossing with the Republic of Bulgaria. It has been stated that in order to settle the status of vehicles with Bulgarian registration some double citizens resort to writing off their permanent address from the Republic of Northern Macedonia, filling out forms at the Embassy and receiving a certificate accordingly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] After this procedure they do not have to import customs and register their own cars and trucks. In the Ministry of Interior, we continue to monitor the information. I've got more, but time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u170	Thank you. In the back, I suppose, you'll be able to expose more information. Here's a line, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Genchovska, I'm kind of pleased with what I heard because I see there's a reaction after all. The point is that the reaction comes on March 21st, my question is from March 15th the problem is in early March. The complaints, you yourself said there were more than 200. And the big question is: why should I ask the question in order to activate during this time your ministry, for which I want to thank you for doing it anyway. Secondly, the law itself mentioned that it was adopted at the end of December 2020, we are now March 2022. In other words, more than a year and a half ago, let's not say a year and a half, almost a year and a half. At that time, we still had our embassy, being on the ground and knowing that this was not the first such action, because, unfortunately, such things have happened in Macedonia in the previous 15 years, and since we have entered the European Union, at least three times so far. There were also downloads directly of Bulgarian car numbers, such periodic stocks have been made over the years back. This is not something new.. Macedonia is using it. Or rather, the ruling Serbo Communist click uses it periodically when it has to exert some form of pressure or repression on Bulgarian citizens there and thus exert a form of influence on Bulgaria as a whole. My remark to you is to pay attention. I'd do anything else, I'd even kick out the ambassador, but... Take a look at the man who's at the embassy who's under your command. We cannot and should not wait for a reaction from people here in Sofia, provided that he is there in Skopje, and knows what this is about. The Bulgarian ambassador should have informed you as quickly as possible and you should have done what you did, for which I would like to thank you once again for doing your job, but you should have done it faster. Because I am sure that after Bulgaria reacts, and after the ambassador is still taking some action at your direction, from then on with 100% security I can say that this practice will be terminated because the laws in Macedonia are being selective. It always has been, and it will be, as long as it's run by these people there. For this reason, we should not and should never give any reason for our fellow countrymen in Macedonia to live with the feeling that things should only happen after someone is somehow triggered. Here things should not be about personal, but about administrative factor and potential. When there is an administration, when there is an embassy, when there is a foreign ministry that does its job, consistently, on the basis of the laws and regulations on which it operates, it should not come to a situation where I ask a question and you act only afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u172	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Would you like a hole, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov, for commenting on the sensitivity on both sides of the border, I mean public opinion is very important to us. And thank you very much for the question, because all these details are extremely important so that the Bulgarian state really is not a stepmother for the Bulgarians who live in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, so we will rely on your support from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question to Teodora Genchovska, who is from Nikolay Drenchev concerning a contract for the purchase of F-16 and adjoining armaments. Here you are, Mr. Drenchev, to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u175	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the F-16 purchase contract and adjoining armaments. As you know, in one period from 2019, 2020, a set of contracts was concluded 2021, which provided the purchase of F-16 and accompanying arms. Due to the fact that this set of contracts is of a strange classification, secrecy, at the request of the US Government, it is of a controlled classification, as a result of which it cannot be found in a public or secret Chamber of National Assembly, and it turns out that a copy of it is located in your office. In this regard, I ask a question which relates to the request of the Council of Ministers to ratify the National Assembly, to ratify an annex to one of these arms purchase contracts. In this regard, I would like to ask you the question: how many and what type of air-to-air missiles are purchased under this contract or under these contracts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u176	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Here you are, Mrs. Genchevska, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Drenchev, a 10-year Road map for cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America in the field of defence is currently being implemented, signed in October 2020 in Washington. In 2019 the Republic of Bulgaria began to conclude seven international treaties with the United States on the purchase and maintenance of F-16 Block 70/72 fighter planes. Until now they have been concluded: Contract for the purchase of F 16 Block 70 aircraft and related support from 11 August 2019, non-born; Contract for the purchase of ammunition in support of F-16 from 11 August 2019, unborn; Contract for the purchase of Sidewinder AIM-9X Block II, rockets related to materials and services 11 August 2019. supplied; Contract for the purchase of a multifunctional system for the distribution of information related to maintenance and equipment, 11 August 2019 supplied; Contract for the purchase of licenses and technical support of the structural simulation system on 28 October 2019, promulgated in the Official Journal. 11 of 7 February 2020; Contract for the purchase of materials, supply of equipment, software updates and others, signed on 27 November 2019, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, pk. 12, 11 February 2020 All these contracts are ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the negotiations by the US party, a request was made not to make any part of them public because of the confidential nature of the information. In view of this, these contracts were not published in the Official Journal. The contract for the purchase of F-16 aeroplanes and related maintenance since 2019 has now undergone four amendments. The original texts of these amendments, which constitute independent international treaties, have not been transmitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has prior information provided by the Ministry of Defence that a contract to purchase Sidewinder Block II, rockets related to materials and services signed on 11 August 19 will also undergo an amendment. So far, we do not have any information as to whether the amendment has entered into force. His original text was also not transmitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria and Lockheed Martin Global ANC on the Industrial Cooperation Programme of F-16 Block 70, signed on 12 August 2019, has also not been submitted in original storage at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The international treaties and their amendments contain information directly related to the armaments and equipment of the Bulgarian armed forces. It should be borne in mind that these contracts purchase a number of items of equipment, the armament of aircraft, which are detailed in the terms described under their trade names in the tests of the agreements. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, can I just give Mr. Danchev some information?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u178	I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u179	The information is obvious and is on the Pentagon's website regarding F-16 planes and their equipment. [[Mister Teodora Genchovska shall submit documents to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line, Mr. Drenchev? Here you go. And here you are, Mr. Drenchev, the file from Minister Gencovska. [[The President Nikola Minchev submitted documents to the Parliamentary Representative Nikolay Drenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my turn, I will pass through you to Mrs. Genchovska. [[The National Representative Nikolay Drenchev submitted documents to President Nikola Minchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u183	Requesting access to the information because I visited her office twice and was not allowed to know this information personally. Madam Minister, at the end of the day, I didn't understand how many and what rockets were bought?! I'm shocked by the incompetence of your ministry's employees. My question was completely simple and I expected a simple answer: so many rockets, so many battleships and so many teachings. The fact that the contracts are kept with you means that your employees should understand what they say. How will your employees watch over the fulfillment of the contract if they do not understand what it says?! They don't understand rockets or planes well, but I don't want the flight parameters of these aircraft. I'm asking you about quantity and numbers, and you should have them in every contract, and whether they're pears or planes or rockets, you should be able to see them. We're talking about a $1 billion contract. The Commission therefore concludes that the Prices, deadlines and penalties is the function of the Foreign Ministry, which should understand. I can't imagine how it would ask for penalties from the U.S. government. Madam Minister, I'd like to ask you to get your subordinates to work. We're about to be involved in another man's war, and we're incompetent to count how many missiles we have. Unlike our rockets, which are currently on paper and which will be produced in the third quarter of 2025, so planned, the missiles of our opponents are on the poles of their aircraft and can be launched at any moment. Please make our diplomacy work! Define national interest and defend it and do not involve us in military conflicts. Because Bulgaria must be protected from our diplomacy, as our missiles are paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u184	Mr. Drenchev, thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] This application must be entered into the Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u185	It's entered into the register. This is a personal copy for Mrs. Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u186	Ah, it's an entrance, okay. Once it's in, it'll be considered. I'm handing him over to you, Madam Minister, as we understand, and in official order, he's on his way. [[The President Nikola Minchev transmitted documents to Minister Teodora Gencovska.]] Here you go. You're entitled to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u187	Mr. Drenchev, thank you. In the folder I provided you, in addition to the information found on the Pentagon website, there is information received in the meantime from the Ministry of Defense about the number of missiles you are interested in. I can tell you what the number is. So far he's 15. What I want to tell you is that the contracts you are talking about are located in the National Assembly's Office, in the registerings of the Ministry of Defence. The original contracts are kept in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not see why, until now, the National Assembly's Office or the Ministry of Defence's Registry has not provided you with this information. Thank you for the note. You will have the opportunity to meet if you hold, in the Foreign Ministry, the originals of the contracts, but I guarantee you that the Foreign Ministry stands up for the national interest of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u188	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We've run out of questions for Teodora Genchovska. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov. The first question is from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Ahmed Ahmedov and Hasan Ademov regarding the disregard for real insurance internship for the purposes of art. 68 para. 3 of the Social Security Code for the period of recruitment of military service, as well as the time during which they were illegally imprisoned in camps and imprisoned repressed persons under the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to present your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u189	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For 2022, the conditions for acquiring a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3, this is the pension with reduced insurance service, is the existence of two cumulative conditions: one is a 15-year effective insurance service, pay attention to the key word "actual" "actually serviced time," the time during which the person worked on another service and was necessarily insured for disability, old age and death, as well as the time during which the person was subject to compulsory insurance on his own account and paid the due social contributions. Article 68, para. 1 supplied periods of military service and placed in camps and prisons repressed persons shall be regarded as an internship. In the same periods when we are in the hypothesis of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 - Insurance service and age with reduced internship, these periods are not respected by the argument that they are not real internships. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 3, p. 3 of the Social Security Code it is written that in cases where the penalty imposed It follows that there is an inequality of the insured persons in the two different hypotheses. In this regard, our question to you is: what measures does the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy take to remedy this injustice and inequality of insured persons?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Ademov, dear Mr. Ahmedov! Under the provisions of the Social Security Code in 2022, the right to a pension for internship and age under general conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 is acquired at the age of 61 years and 10 months for women and 64 years and 5 months for men and internships respectively 36 years and 2 months for women and 39 years and 2 months for men. Where, for certain reasons, the insured persons have not acquired this internship but have no less than 15 years of actual internship, the legislator has allowed the possibility for persons to retire when they reach a slightly higher age, which for 2022 is 66 years and 10 months for women and men. It is apparent that while the assessment of the right to a pension under the general conditions requires the existence of an insurance service of a certain duration, it shall, when assessing the right to a pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 part of the internship needs to meet special requirements, it needs to be real. The definition of the concept of actual service is contained in § 1, para. 1, t. 12 of the Additional Provisions of the Social Security Code. According to this provision, the actual service is the actual service, the time during which the person worked on another service and was required to be insured for disability, old age and death, i.e. in the Pension Fund, as well as the time during which the person was subject to compulsory insurance on his own account and paid the contributions due. In this regard, in order to recognise a period of actual service, during that period the person should have actually worked on one of the relationships provided for in § 1, para. 1, t. 12 of the Additional Provisions of the Social Security Code. This distinction is necessary because of the provision of art. 9 of the Social Security Code, on the basis of which the internship is respected, it is apparent that the concept of a life insurance service is extremely broad. It includes both periods during which the person has actually worked and periods which, for different reasons, for the protection of persons, are deemed to be an internship without persons exercising employment. During the examination of the periods of the recruitment military service and the periods to be respected for internship on the basis of art. 7 of the Law on the Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, it is undeniable that through them the persons did not pursue employment or employment activities or any other relationship in which they were necessarily insured for disability due to general illness, old age and death. During those periods, the persons did not also have compulsory insurance on their own account and did not pay insurance contributions. Therefore, an insurance service recognised on two grounds cannot be regarded as an actual insurance service when assessing the right to a pension but will be regarded as a general insurance service which is involved in determining the amount of pension of persons who have acquired the right to a pension. That is to say, those who make the necessary social contribution provided for in the legislation. This legislative approach is consistent with the specifics of state social security, such as a cost-covering system for the use of rights from which insured persons should make a real contribution. It is also reported that given the different grounds for respect for the insurance service under art. 9 of the Social Security Code is a possible hypothesis in which, if there was no requirement for actual internship, a person would have obtained the right to a pension for internship and age without any or a minimum contribution to the insurance system. In this regard, I do not believe that it is the legitimate conclusion that you have made of an inequality between the insured persons in the two hypotheses. On the contrary, the recognition of certain periods of actual internship of persons who have not worked would be unfair and would create prerequisites for inequality with those who, at the same time, were actually working and contributing insurance contributions to the remuneration received. Therefore, I do not find it necessary to take measures to change legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Ademov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am definitely not pleased with your bureaucratic, administrative response and I will tell you why. That is why hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who served in the Labor Forces, for which you just said that they did not work, for those who served in the ranks of the Bulgarian People's Army and guarded the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, you said that nothing had worked! For those who were in camps that were exiled, see what it says in art. 7 of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. These persons shall be recognised as having been in these camps for service, see what is written in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code in § 9, para. 1: The service which is considered to be an internship and this time, I have just told you that it is an internship held until 31 December 1999, when retirement is recognised as an insurance service under this code. See what is written in the Social Security Code. 9, para. 3, p. 3: The time during which a sentence is imposed is respected for an internship and it is subsequently recognised in the appropriate order for a wrongful service. " In these cases, all those persons are entitled to both employment and social service. Next, in the Regulation on pensions and insurance in art. 44 is recorded: "For an internship of category III, there is recognition of the time of military service. " - What more arguments should there be in the legislation to resolve this issue? Dear Minister, I will give you here the practice of the Administrative Court, here are the judgments that are in favor of those who dispute the decisions of the territorial divisions of the National Insurance Institute. [[Shows scroll with copies of judgments.]] We from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have prepared a bill. We expect the support of this bill by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because otherwise we will walk the entire procedure, we will go through the supreme courts, we will also reach the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, so that this issue can be resolved in a final and definitive manner. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here's your coat, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wasn't going to answer any further, but the answer really is bureaucratic, Dr. Ademov. I just want to say two things. This question could be resolved back in time many, many times. No, he hasn't been a question for the last three months. So this answer is bureaucratic, but it is fully in line with the legislation in force. I do not find it justified to solve another problem for people who do not have a social security contribution to the system through the pension system. If you are now prepared with a bill, the political will of the National Assembly is to accept or not to accept this proposal. When you submit the bill, we will give the relevant opinion, if there is a majority behind this project, we will apply it as legislation in force. Thank you. [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You're ordering a procedure, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and Madame Members, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! Mr. Chairman, you should have reminded him of Mr. Gokov the Minister that in what Mr. Ademov presented here from this tribune, it is about caselaw, decisions of the Bulgarian courts on the unlawful interpretations of the officials in the Ministry in question, and not the Minister of the Tribune to justify that back in time this issue would have been resolved and should have been resolved. No, back in time it was decided and on the basis of the laws in Bulgaria the court pronounced for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens and not for the benefit of the officials of the Ministry. However, since officials at the Ministry allow themselves different interpretations, as is the case, and in order of other laws, we, on our part, will again make proposals, bills, so that there are no grounds for civil servants to make arbitrary interpretations of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u198	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I'm sure the practice will be valuable to the Ministry if you want to betray it. [[Heckling]] Thank you. We move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Slavena Tocheva, concerning the appointment as Director of the Social Assistance Directorate in the municipality of Devnya, Varna. Here you go, Mrs. Tocheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is about the appointment of the person Velina Andreeva Nikolova as Director of the Social Assistance Directorate. The signal I received clearly proves that the person does not meet the criteria for the position in question unless the internship data of the person in question has been collected by Google and the contest has not been conducted by means of a video conference, such as practice lately, we often see that it is used by the ruling majority. I would also like to inform you of another violation. Mr. Minister, are you aware that on the date of February 8th, the person has been quarantined by RZI and the competition itself was held on February 9th, i.e. until the person is quarantined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Tocheva. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tocheva, regarding the question asked me about the appointment of Velina Andreeva Nikolova as Director of the Social Assistance Directorate. By order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance No. 01-00-49 of 12 January 2022 on the basis of art. 10a of the Civil Service Act is announced a competition for the position of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In accordance with the requirements of art. 14 of the Ordinance on the conduct of competitions and the selection of civil servants on the mobility of civil servants on the basis of the order cited above, the notice on the conduct of the contest was published on 13 January 2022 on the official website of the Agency and in the Register of the Integrated Information System of the State Administration under art. 61, para. 1 of the Administration Act. In the performance of art. 10a of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 14 of the Ordinance on the conduct of competitions and the selection of the mobility of civil servants in the notice are also mentioned the minimum requirements for taking up the competition position and they are: completed higher education with a Master's degree and four years of professional experience and/or ranked third junior under the Civil Service Act. Four sets of documents have been submitted for the Director of the Directorate of Social Assistance and, after their examination, the competition commission has allowed all candidates to appear, as the certification documents provided by them have demonstrated the fulfilment of the minimum requirements for taking up the competition position. On 31 January 2022, a list of candidates admitted to the competition was published on the Agency's website stating that, before the competition procedure took place on 9 February 2022, each applicant was obliged to submit a valid document for vaccination, examination or coronavirus disease under the Order of the Minister of Health No RD 01-49 of 28 January 2022. On 9 February 2022, applicants were admitted to the premises in which the competition procedure took place only after the submission of one of the documents for which Protocol No 2 of Protocol No 3 of 9 February 2022 was drawn up from the meeting of the competition committee. For admission of the competition, Velina Andreeva Nikolova has submitted a digital copy certificate to the European Union for vaccination carried out and in the protocol it has signed its own signature certifying consent to the entry of the certificate number in the protocol. The same certificate was presented by Velina Andreeva Nikolova for the second stage of the competition procedure held on 17 February 2022. At present Velina Andreeva Nikolova has not been appointed director of the Department of Social Assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mrs. Tocheva? You don't want to. We move on to the next and last question to Minister Gokov. [[The Minister of Education Nikolay Denkov.]] Hello, Minister Denkov. The issue is from the MP Rumen Hristov on Ukrainian refugees who chose to stay permanently in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question. [[DPS lines.]] Then it's a question to Minister Denkov and then it's a question from Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u203	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! My question is related to the refugees from Ukraine arriving in Bulgaria. In particular, I would ask the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Gokov how many of them have chosen to stay permanently in Bulgaria? How many of them are accommodated in municipal and state dwellings, hotels and accommodations and thus have the right to receive 40 BGN. A day? Why are those sheltered by people with broad hearts in Bulgaria not supported in their homes? Is it possible that the voucher system, which would allow no abuse of these funds, which is given to Bulgarian workers and which was recently increased? This was the right decision to purchase food products, and here the possibility of purchasing first-rate products has been expanded.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u204	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, regarding the questions you have asked, I provide you with the following information: from 24 February to 21 March 2022, 108 262 people have entered our country due to the war in Ukraine. Of them remained on Bulgarian territory are 50 768 people - 47% of sustainable trend. On March 23rd, 3182 people entered, with 1697 people left here - 47% of all, a sustainable trend again. On the same date in the night, 57 people arrived on trains in Sofia and 157 people in Varna. With private Bulgarian and Ukrainian buses in Varna 116 people arrived without bookings in total in Varna on the night of March 23rd - 273 people. According to the Unified Tourist Information System for the period 24 February 20 March 2022, the overnight Ukrainians in the accommodations are 32 332 people. Regarding your request why the sheltered Ukrainian refugees in private Bulgarian natural persons who use the provided homes for free are not granted aid, I inform you that the introduction of a system for reporting this type of accommodation is currently under discussion. Regarding the second part of your question, I inform you: on 8 March 2022, the European Commission published a proposal for amending Regulation of the European Union EU 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down common provisions and the EU 223/2014 Regulation as regards the actions of the Cohesion Fund for Refugees in Europe. The introduction of the CER initiative creates the conditions for the necessary flexibility in the rules of cohesion policy 2014 - 2020 in order to allow rapid redistribution of available funding, urgent support for people migrating from Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion. The proposed amendments to Regulation 1303/2013 allow the resources available under the REACT EU instrument to also be used to provide urgent support covering the basic needs of migration flows from Ukraine. The Agency for Social Assistance shall provide basic support for the provision of food and essential goods to persons granted temporary protection in connection with the mass penetration of displaced persons from Ukraine in accordance with the Council of the European Union Implementing Decision (EU) 2022/382 of 4 March 2022 establishing the existence of a mass penetration of displaced persons from Ukraine within the meaning of art. 5 of Directive 2001/55/EC and introducing temporary protection. The preliminary indicative estimates of the additional funds made by the REACT EU instrument to the Operational Programme for Food and/or basic material support 2014-2020 show that the aid can reach about 50 thousand persons to be provided with vouchers worth 100 BGN. to provide food and essential goods. Against the voucher provided it will be possible to purchase food products, children's foods, children's clothing, school supplies, hygiene materials and other products of primary necessity from the market network in the country. Goods and products which can be purchased against the voucher provided are intended to provide initial basic support under urgency conditions. The voucher will be provided on condition that it can only be exchanged against food and/or basic material products. The vouchers are intended to be provided by the Social Assistance Officers and are discussed and a way for people to receive them at the initial reception points established by Order No R-37/4 March 2022 to the Minister of Interior or in the Social Assistance Officers at the places of appointment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u206	Mr. Chairman, please let me finish and I won't take any chances after this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u207	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u208	The voucher will be granted once to persons who have received temporary protection. In justified cases, an additional voucher may be obtained after assessing the needs and assessment of complex circumstances, such as age, health or other, which prevent them from meeting the basic vital needs. The assessment shall be carried out by the social workers of the territorial units of the Agency for Social Assistance. The vouchers will be able to be used in the market network in the country. The reimbursement of the costs of a voucher will be made on the basis of invoices issued by the stores in which they are used. In addition to providing vouchers to target group members, they will also receive supporting support which will be indicative in directing and consulting their fundamental rights, as well as helping to obtain the necessary services given the specifics of each case. Next, in relation to the observed substantial growth of refugee flows from Ukraine, which in turn creates a number of socio-economic challenges related to supporting and integrating these people, including children. In our country, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020 took action to implement a new solidarity procedure under a programme with a financial location for 2022 under the REACT EU mechanism. The draft of the operation has an indicative budget of 44 million and 500 thousand and a specific beneficiary of the Employment Agency. The aim is to provide support through psychological assistance, professional guidance, labour consulting and motivation, and individual action plans will be drawn up for job seekers displaced from Ukraine. Education in Bulgarian will facilitate the integration of children, including family members. It is also planned to provide support for the inclusion of employment and mentoring. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u209	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for the detailed information. Will there be a line from Mr. Christov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with the answer. First of all, the direction is right. Secondly, if it could happen a little faster, it would be really good. Several arguments in what you are saying, and especially for those who are sheltered in the Bulgarian homes, they are free there and all the expenses associated with their residence in these homes are borne by the Bulgarian citizens with broad hearts. We realize that there is no Bulgarian family to sit down to dinner, and that there are refugees who are accommodated in his house, not to invite them. I mean, they're double their expenses. Yes, it is difficult in Bulgaria as well as the countries around the military conflict are going through difficult days, but we need to find as a society forces, willpower and enough morality to help these people. I would just like to remind you that at the beginning of the last century Bulgaria shelters several hundred thousand refugees, I repeat, several hundred thousand refugees, then the Bulgarian state is young for several decades and is still doing well. Just to point out one more thing, it lands these foreigners with 50 decares each, so was the average land owned by the Bulgarians at that time. Remember what help has been given to refugees and at the same time they are given plots to build houses. Bulgaria has always responded in such moments to people who are in need and I am convinced that now we will do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u211	Thank you, Mr. Christov. A hole by Minister Gyokov? I won't. With this we have exhausted the questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov. Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for participating. We are moving on to a question to Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science. For procedure? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry to join you in the infinite amount of procedures today, but mine is really getting to the point. A few minutes ago, Minister Gencovska delivered here that the contracts in question, which are wanted for F-16, are located in our Office of the National Assembly. I've just checked both in plain sight and in secret law enforcement and such contracts with us. In this regard, Mr President, I appeal to you, with a request from your position and your authority to also see if such contracts exist and accordingly, if you manage to find them where I have not been able to find them, to provide me with an opportunity to meet them. I have submitted this application to the National Assembly for access to this information and I will also pass it on to you. [[Provides document.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u213	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Thank you, I'll do a background check. The question to Nikolay Denkov is from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Julia Ivanova about the functioning of specialized service units in the system of pre-school and school education within the meaning of art. 50, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7 of the Preschool and School Education Act in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Denkov! My question is related to the regional STEM centers in Bulgaria, which are three. One is in the village of Kovachevtsi, Pernik region, the other two are in the village of Yastrebino and the town of Hisarya. Together with colleague Zornitsa Stratieva, we visited the one in the village of Kovachevtsi and noticed that he has very great potential, but he is in a rather neglected state and needs repair. For this reason, we would like to ask you if you have plans to restore these centres, and what is actually planned by the Ministry to happen in them in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Here you go, Mr. Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stratieva, Mrs. Ivanova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The National STEM Centre will be the main provider of professional development for teachers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. The Center will coordinate, assist and advise the construction and development of STEM environment in each Bulgarian school, creating a model for learning, qualification, working with research methods and tools. The activities of the Center aim to bring Bulgarian education into the international rankings for education and achievements in STEM field and to enable all young people for motivation and career development in the field. The National STEM Centre will be located on the territory of the Educational Center of the Ministry of Education and Science, which enjoys state property in Sofia, near the Park Hotel. On the territory of the property will be built a whole new building according to world standards for the construction of similar educational and research complexes. The building will have an area of 3600 square meters. m. The laboratories and training rooms will be located in it. A warm connection will be made to a workshop and space for competitions, Olympiads and scientific fairs, as well as shared working space of about 700 sq. m. In addition to the National STEM Centre 3 regional STEM centers are created. They will support the National STEM Centre by providing conditions for organizing and holding congresses, conferences, seminars, plenarys and training of teachers, pedagogical specialists and others, as well as the preparation of children and students for participation in national and international Olympiads, competitions, competitions and other forms of interest activities. The regional STEM centers will be built on existing school bases. The National Children's Complex in the village of Yastrebino, National Children's Environment Complex in the village of Kovachevtsi and one in the town of Hisarya, creating prerequisites for recognition of these complexes and sustainability of the initiative in the national school network. In order to fully recover, the amount of EUR 20 million was allocated to the three regional bases. 400,000. lv. with VAT in the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The plan provides for the material base at STEM centres to be modernised by the end of 2026 at the latest. The aim of this reconstruction is to create research spaces where training is to be conducted through a variety of methodological forms, which will reconcile the game and scientific approach with the aim of stimulating creativity, research spirit and the practical focus of knowledge in children and young people. In the centers there will be different types of spaces for STEM training, including interactive display, portable computer, graphic tablet, wide-angle webcam with high resolution; mobile laboratories of natural sciences, green technologies and sustainable development, robotics and cyber-physical systems, design and 3D prototypes, mathematics and informatics; 3D technologies, virtual and added reality; interactive simulations and more. A key element of the concept of regional STEM centres is the organisation of activities during school holidays, summer schools and seminars, including international ones, in order to optimize participation in the exchange of good practices, as well as in the European Union programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for your reply, Professor Denkov, as this is a key issue in terms of creating and building the competences of the future in today's youth. I believe that STEM is a trend that must be extremely strengthened in our schools, as well as in national and regional STEM centres. My congratulations, indeed, on this undertaking and that these regional centres will indeed be given a new life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Is there gonna be an asshole? Okay, there won't be. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've run out of questions for you today. Good day, goodbye. And now we come to the questions to Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. First of all, there is a question by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov about the policy for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Serbenova, my question relates to an extremely sensitive and serious topic for both the medical community and our entire community. In this regard, I would like to say that we of the DPS parliamentary group, and I, in particular, have put this matter repeatedly before ministers and before you, are now putting this question to you. The issue is related to the lack of doctors in certain specialties, such as pediatrics, anesthesiology, resuscitation, infectious diseases, epidemiology, general practitioners and others, as well as nurses. Also in this period it emerged as a problem and the departure of young doctors with and without specialty, as well as of nurses working abroad. According to information from a study by the Medical University in Sofia, announced by Rector Lachezar Traikov, 60% of the young doctors say they will leave the country, with 25 - 30% of them immediately after graduation and the remaining 25 - 30% - after taking a major. You have recently participated in a discussion on the topic of health care deficit, where the results of a sociological survey were presented. The statistics are very unpleasant and disturbing. According to her, 73% of hospitals have a shortage of doctors, I stress 73%, and about 90% of hospitals have a shortage of nurses. 78% of hospitals indicate that it is difficult to secure 24-hour work. As a consequence, 45% of the hospitals surveyed identified late or inaccurate diagnosis and reduction of treatment quality, as well as high staff overload. According to information from the Bulgarian Medical Union over 60% of doctors are over 50 years old. According to the Bulgarian Association of Healthcare Professionals, every third nurse is retired and the forecast is that in 10 years there will be less than 10 thousand sisters if the current trend is maintained. And in this regard, we are in one of the last places within the European Union where standards are quite different, but we do not have enough time to point them out. The Hospitals Index reported that in the past year the turnover of nurses from hospitals is about 57%. The main cause of the problem is the low pay. In this regard, my question is: what doctors do not currently reach in the healthcare system; what exactly is the shortage of specialties; what is the shortage of nurses and what measures does the government provide for to overcome the shortage of doctors in certain specialties, as well as nurses, as well as for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria; when will the implementation of the measures start and what deadlines are planned to overcome these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Minister, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The insufficient number of nurses is a major problem for human resources in the healthcare system, while in all other medical professions there are either positive trends, including certain specialties in doctors, or a tendency to retain the number of specialists at one level. In the profession, a nurse is the biggest problem. As you have noted, labour market shortages are extremely serious, according to the National Statistical Institute as of 31 December 2020, 29 160. In practice, the required number of nurses is twice the number available and should also reflect this need. With this profession, not only is low pay and over-loading at work, which you mentioned, but sometimes poor working conditions, poor working micro-climate due to lack of effective partnership and equal treatment with other medical professionals in teamwork, under-evaluation by other medical professionals, including media and society, lack of real perspective for career development and extension of competences. Like here in these statements and analyses, of course, we refer to the sociological studies that you also mentioned. The problem is also deepened by the fact that in the last 20 years there has been a lasting practice, as I mentioned at the beginning of the answer, for the validation of more places for medical students than for students in the specialty of medical school, and after 2000 each subsequent year the number of graduates is greater than the number of graduates of nurses, and real practice, labor market and care for Bulgarian patients require a reverse ratio. From these problems, the Ministry of Health considers the issue of increasing the attractiveness of the profession as extremely important. For this purpose, we are also looking for regulatory opportunities to optimize the staff in medical institutions in order to influence one of the factors shared in these sociological studies as a problem, overloading of nurses, introducing mandatory criteria for medical institutions to reach a certain ratio of indicators doctors and nurses, nurses, revealed hospital beds and nurses to patients. Carrying out general care by caretakers and health assistants who are practically assistants to nurses would also greatly help their work and reduce their overwork and enable them to focus on more specific training activities. A question on which we are working is also the creation of opportunities for the real professional development of nurses, the regulation of wider powers after the acquisition of a specialty, the creation of a larger set of opportunities for training and after the acquisition of the professional qualification of a nurse. The Ministry of Health also conducts a consistent policy to support training to acquire a specialty in the healthcare system. On the one hand, it is the creation of attractive conditions for training to acquire a specialty, on the other, to create an opportunity to validate a larger number of residents, and, of course, this is linked to the lack of specific specialties financed by the State. Regulation No 1 of 2015 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system established such conditions. In a moment, I will also quote specific numbers for the lack of specialties and what are the places that are established for specializations. As a specialization in clinical specialities is carried out on the basis of a fixed contract of employment for a resident who guarantees the rights of residents to an optimal extent. Every year there are established places for residents financed by the state, on the so-called deficit specialties. Such specialties are "Emergency medicine", "Infectious diseases", "Inner diseases", "Transfusional education", "Criminal medicine and deontology", "General and clinical pathology", "Pneumology and phthsiatry", "Clinical laboratory", "Pediatry" and others. By amending the regulations of September 2021, the process of determining the locations financed by the State has also been optimised. They are already confirmed twice a year by 15 January and by 15 August and are determined on the basis of the needs of specialists in the country and the opportunities of medical institutions to train residents as well as, of course, taking into account the interest expressed by the applicants for specialization. The aim is to avoid the practice that has been observed so far, established places for residents financed by the State, to remain free due to the lack of interest from applicants or hospitals. By my order of 14 January this year, a total of 346 seats were established. I would also like to point out that the amendment and the Appendix of 19 November 2021 to Regulation No 1 have also eased the start of a specialization in specialties. This amendment ensures the possibility of funding. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since the subject is really big and deserves a more detailed hearing, I will add to the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u223	Okay. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for two supplementary questions, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, it is evident that the problem is extremely serious. You have focused on the more serious problem at the moment on the lack of personnel of nurses. It is true that I am also a doctor at the Department of Propedeutics of Surgery we see that it is hard to specify and connect the schedule of duty for the work of nurses in the clinic. This condition is not only in the clinic that I have eyes for, but also in other hospitals. My question to you is: is there active communication with hospitals exactly what specialists, what needs they have and to announce, say, from the Ministry of Health where is there what opportunities for both work and specialization, for career development? Not that this is the most important criterion, because, after a student or a doctor subsequently has his preferences, he would turn to the relevant specialty on this basis, but it is still another thing to know that in a shorter time period he could start his or her specialization, and career development. It is important to motivate them. In addition, it is true that there should be a comprehensive reform in healthcare, but in terms of personnel policy, we believe that we should do one.. we have repeatedly said that, a strategic general analysis of human resources, a factor at the moment and on this basis there should be planning. I believe that it is not enough that these numbers are pointed out and we have pleaded by our parliamentary group, and that the changes in the relevant regulations will not state them in detail are also the result of our proposals and requests to ease the way of specialization. There's a step, but it's not enough. There is more to be desired, so we need to approach more large-scale both for specialization, both for the detention of nurses and to plan the admission of students, but to create the necessary conditions for them to stay working in the country. I hope you have such communication. I would ask you to submit this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Chakarov, you rightly noted, I just started from the bigger problem, but the one you put is also not small. We are in communication, of course, with medical institutions and with the need for specific specialties. I will now provide you with the latest available data that we have since 2021 on the number of needs in the country by specialists and the number of residents who in the coming years will complete their training and will satisfy the needs of the so-called deficit specialties. In speciality: "Emergency medicine" is 205, the needs of specialists are 205, the number of specialists 50; "Infectious diseases" is 32, the needs of specialists 65, the number of residents 24; "Inner diseases" is 123 to 41; "Transfusional patients" is 32, the residents are 28; "Judicial medicine and deontology" is 25 to 12; "General and clinical pathology" is 42 to 40 specialists; "Pneumology and phthsiatry" is 28; " 100 to 72; "Clinical laboratory" is there nearly equal to the number of specialists 78 of 74, and "Pediatry" is used by specialists 166, number of specialists 172. I absolutely recognize your claim that small steps have been made, but you have to walk much more, even all the way, not just separate steps. The interest in a specialty depends, of course, on the conditions that the state created, but factors such as professional realization after the acquisition of a specialty, working conditions and payment, here is extremely important and what is the policy of the relevant hospitals, the managers as managers how they manage to create this microclimate. In this case, a key factor in attracting and detaining medical professionals, I would actually say that these are the most difficult to manage resources to motivate human resources, to recognize a hospital hospital, a specialty as its field of development, is also here the key role of employers to provide good working conditions, fair and proportional remuneration in relation to the burden and participation of each of the medical professionals in the medical process. What I can assure you is that, knowing the human resources problems in healthcare, the team of the Ministry of Health will seek sustainable, longer-term solutions. You yourself said that this issue has been being posed for a long time now to seek sustainable solutions and, of course, to be a comprehensive strategy and analysis of human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u227	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, for expression of attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In all that we have said, I have asked you, Minister, about planning, we would like to hear that there is an analysis, it is absolutely necessary and on this basis to have a planned one so to accept, if necessary, more students. I remember years when this admission of students to the specialty of medicine and dentistry was several times compared to previous years, there was evidently a serious analysis with a view to providing both hospital and hospital care. We have so far been talking about what we are talking about here, we have mainly been referring to and referring to hospital care, but the situation with hospital care is very serious. It should be provided for covering with footage, because in many places I can point out, there are no personal doctors, there are no medical staff to meet, people are forced to sign up to a personal doctor at 10, 15 and more kilometers away, and I can give you examples: in my electoral area in Silistra, I know that in Blagoevgrad, in border areas is also very serious the situation, in Haskovo, in Silistra I have already pointed out, in Shumen, in Razgrad, in many places in Burgas, there are also presented to me that there are such serious problems. So in this regard, it must also be seen how to be secured with medical personnel. It is evident from the analysis that is done by the Medical University in Sofia, it is evident that not only pay is a factor, although it is important, so we should also consider the serious career development of prospective young personnel to remain in the country and not the brains to be directed to other countries of the western world, because we are also part of the European Union after all. In connection with the fact that this problem is serious and we from the DPS with the support of our colleagues from GERB, we are asking for a debate on the subject in order to carry out a thorough discussion, to hear different opinions to help identify adequate measures to address the health deficit problems. Yes, we are really putting this issue before several ministers, but at last we have to find a framework, a solution that is best in the interests of both medical personnel and our entire public and, in the end, the aim is to have a better functioning health system, better security. We have wonderful footage. I believe that we have this potential, which, together with all of us, and those who are in power, and opposition, with a single party consensus, to make good decisions, which we can implement, so that there will be detention of young people in Bulgaria and their good career development and good healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u229	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. We move on to the second question to Asena Serbenova, who is from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov on the disproportions in the paid activities of the National Health Insurance Fund for Hospital Aid by Regions and in particular Varna region. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, for more than two decades hospital care in the region of Varna is underfunded. There are frappany disproportions in the allocation of financial resources for hospital care by districts. The last example of this is Annex 1 to Decision No RD-NS-04-166 of 16 December 2021 of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, representing the established monthly and indicative values for activities in the BMP for December 2021. Paid for January 2022 for the district of Varna. For activities in December 2021 outside Annex 1 11 million are envisaged. 060 thousand. BGN, for Burgas region the same amount is worth 10 million. 035,000. BGN, for the district of Pleven 10 million 088 thousand. BGN, and for Plovdiv district, 33 million. 832 thousand. lv. The figures as of January 31, according to official data, are also similar as absolute and relative value, as my question was long ago, and the numbers for March I have now checked them: for Varna 400,000, for Pleven 10 million. 050 thousand, for Plovdiv 32 million. Seventy-five thousand, for Sofia, 65 million. According to the data published on the official website of the National Statistical Institute as of 31 December 2020, the population of Varna is 470 thousand, in Burgas "409 thousand, in Pleven " 23 thousand, and in Plovdiv " 666 thousand. It is apparent that the huge and unexplained discrepancy between the amount of monthly values set by the NHIF for activities in hospital care by districts and the number of population whose medical care should be adequately financially secured. After years of continuing this logical situation, it is normal to ask the question: is the population in these regions getting stronger, or on the contrary? If morbidity indicators, life expectancy, mortality does not change, this raises questions about the effective spending of these money. My question to you is this: what is due to the frappany disproportion in the paid activities of the NHIF for hospital care in regions and is there an analysis by the NHIF, and who is responsible for the effective spending of the huge public resource? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u231	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simeonov, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund actually organizes and directs the operational activities of the NHIF in accordance with the Law, the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund and the decisions of the Supervisory Board. The NHIF shall carry out its activities in compliance with the principles of equal treatment of medical aid contractors when concluding contracts with regional health insurance funds and a free choice from those provided to the medical care contractors. The free access of insured persons to a specific contractor is laid down in the Regulation on the exercise of the right of access to medical care. The specific payment for each contractor from each district in the country for a specific month is determined by the type of activities which they last perform under a contract with the NHIF and mainly by the volume of activities carried out during the period by the health insured persons who have chosen to seek medical assistance from the NHIF package by that contractor. The NHIF is not entitled to limit the choice of health insured persons in this regard and in response to the question you have asked, the allocation of budget resources by districts is not directly related to the number of population in the area concerned. In accordance with art. 4 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. The Supervisory Board of the NHIF within the annual health insurance payments for hospital medical care confirms for each Health Insurance Fund an annual total cost of health insurance payments distributed by month, and confirms the cost of hospital care contractors distributed by month. The directors of regional health inspections shall, respectively, offer the NHIF Supervisory Board, through the manager of the NHIF, the monthly cost values and hospital care contractors for the relevant RHIF. That is, this disproportion that you have explained comes from these proposals accordingly. The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall adopt Terms and Conditions for the Implementation of Art. 1. 4. Specific values in the order of art. 4 for activity the month December 2021 has been established by a decision of the Supervisory Board of 16 December and they are determined on the basis of the activities carried out and reported. These are the clinical pathways, procedures, clinical and outpatient procedures by the medical aid contractors, which were paid on 31 October, i.e. the activity carried out between December 2020 and September 2021 within one twelfth of the annual budget value. The National Health Insurance Fund has complied with the requirement of art. 29, para. 4 of the Health Insurance Act, according to which in the case of an unaccepted budget, since it was then the hypothesis at that time that such an unaccepted budget by the National Assembly, until the beginning of the financial year, health insurance payments should be made according to the budget established for the previous year. In accordance with the decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund from the said date 16 December, amendments and additions to the rules of art. 4, namely for a month of activity December 2021, the Supervisory Board shall establish indicative values for hospital care contractors within one twelfth of the annual value under the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 for health insurance payments for hospital medical care distributed by contractors in proportion to the average monthly value of the reported and paid activity during the period I cited in January 2021. "October 2021" The total value established by this decision of the Supervisory Board is equal to one twelfth of the annual value and is actually allocated to the calculated relative shares of each hospital care contractor. After taking into account the medical aid contractors of the actual activity carried out in December, a decision of the Supervisory Board of 27 January also confirmed adjustments to these monthly values for December 2021 and all medical establishments were paid all the activity carried out in accordance with the National Framework Contract for the month. In fact, the genesis of these disproportions is through the information submitted by regional health insurance banks and because of this possibility of free choice of medical care, are not linked to the number of population in individual districts, which may be an occasion for a discussion and reflection on how it could be more fairly distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u233	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u234	Minister Serbenova, thank you for your answer. I've learned a lot of things too. I am pleased that you have mentioned that perhaps a fairer approach should be found, particularly a commitment to the number of the population. I asked this question about these frappany disproportions. That is why I set an example with Plovdiv and Pleven because I have not heard in Plovdiv and Pleven to have an epidemic of plague or cholera or other particularly dangerous infections. I hope that we will continue to work in this direction, namely to correct these disproportions, because everyone pays health insurance, but it turns out that some are more secure than others. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u235	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. We are now moving on to a question from Alexander Simidchiev regarding the classification of medical procedures. Colleagues, just to clarify that the meeting will continue until 14.21 hours due to the extension of the declarations made in the course of parliamentary control. Here you go, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related to the encoded code system for medical procedures. From several colleagues and specialists, I have received inquiries concerning discrepancies between the names of procedures in the medical procedures classification and standardized names used for many years. Some of them shared about non-compliance or gaps related to modern methodologies, concerns due to uncertainties and how much they will be able to synchronise with the data used in other European countries, respectively, and whether difficulties in the reimbursing system will be overcome, as the NHIF will encode the procedures for the new classification and this may lead to the inability to report correctly carried out studies and subsequent adjustments to become the basis for disruption in the updating of hospital information systems. I had given some examples related to my specialty, which we will not now involve colleagues, as you have them. In this regard, I ask you for your answer: Is there a mechanism for the rapid update of the coding system of medical procedures and when establishing significant discrepancies with real clinical practice; what is the practical approach in which such an update can be implemented quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u237	Thank you, Doctor. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! With the Ordinance that you have cited for the introduction of classification statistical systems for coding diseases and health problems and medical procedures regulated since the beginning of 2022 in the country, taking into account and processing of health and medical and statistical information, it is to apply a new classification system of medical procedures. It was developed on the basis of the Australian classification, as you rightly mentioned, the use of which stems from a contract concluded on 4 November 2011 for a license between the Australian Union, represented by the Department of Health and Ageing, and the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively, represented by the Ministry of Health. This treaty was ratified by Law adopted by the Forty-first National Assembly and respectively promulgated in the State Gazette, No. 102 of 2011 The aim of the new coded system of medical procedures is to enable reporting in a uniform, regulated manner of all medical activities carried out by medical institutions. In practice, the classification system of medical procedures used by the NHIF is abolished under national framework contracts. The introduction of the new encryption system required continuous and thorough preparation. It was realized with the joint efforts of both the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, the National Centre for Public Health and Analyses. Medical institutions and medical specialists were included in this process. During the preparation for its implementation, it was necessary to translate and refine the codes of the relevant individual medical procedures. From 2014 until now the Ministry of Health, the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis and the National Health Insurance Fund have repeatedly been sent inquiries to the national consultants on the individual medical specialities for expressing opinions on how to reflect the activities carried out within the relevant specialties in the new coding system, and in this period all proposals submitted by medical professionals have been taken into account in the adapted version of the coding system. Obviously, what you have in your reply, but you did not quote here, has not been included as it has not been submitted either. To reflect the national peculiarities when considering the medical procedures, the coding system had to be further adapted to the Bulgarian practice and to allow for adequate coding of all medical procedures implemented by the medical institutions. It was precisely the process of adaptation that was very hard-working, and as we can see, there are still options for cleaning up, and this has required several delays in its practical entry into force. At this stage, individuals already obliged to coding are familiar with the coding system on the website of the National Centre for Public Health Protection and Analysis, where it is published for use by all stakeholders. With a view to ensuring the possibility of accurate coding of all activities in the process of adapting the coding system, the National Health Insurance Fund took part, including in the last version of the coding system all activities carried out within the framework of the SCI. With regard to the question you have asked for the synchronization of the coding system of medical procedures with those used in other European countries, it should be borne in mind that at European Union level there is no established single classification system of medical procedures, each Member State being entitled to use a method chosen by it for coding. Bulgaria accepted in 2011 the opportunity to develop this classification system based on the Australian classification. A final version of the coding system to be applied since 2022 has been published on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Public Consultation Portal in the period 31 December 14 January for public consultation and all proposed additions and adjustments have been taken into account and reflected as appropriate. However, there are no specific proposals received from the Ministry of Health in the context of the public consultation of the project, such as those you are putting forward, for re-editing inaccurate medical procedures to create uncertainty in their reporting due to non-compliance, are the names used so far. We note the fact that new methods and technologies are about to be used, that this classification will undergo one development. So in the course of applying the new coding system, we also note that such adjustments will be required. In this regard, I assure you that we are prepared to discuss specific proposals, amendments and additions to the Ordinance. I can also provide you with a table on the course in which the public discussion has taken place, but real information of this kind has not been received. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u239	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Will there be a line, Doctor, or straight to the next question? Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u240	The line is short. Usually in our country happens that when the egg comes to the appropriate place, we begin to see defects, which because we are very busy, we have not seen before. Some of the people who gave me information on this topic are national consultants, which was a little weird, but it's a fact anyway. So I appealed not so much what happened, but how to work forward. In this respect, I thank you very much for the willingness to adapt as quickly as possible so that there are no difficulties in reporting to the NHIF and statistics at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u241	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dr. Simidchiev! In my duplicate, I just want to say that your question was an example of how good it is to synchronize the work between the National Assembly and the Ministry of Health, respectively, because literally the Regulations with the classificationr in two large folders were on my desk when I received your inquiry and of course these corrections would be reflected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u243	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before we go to the next question, I just need to make one announcement. In relation to the response received by the Minister of Health Asena Serbekova on questioning No 47-254-05-56 of 16 February 2022, asked by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the policy for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria, a request was made for discussions on the questioning and Draft Decision by letter No 47-254-00-46 of 25 March 2022. The proposal and the draft decision on the questioning were signed by 51 MPs. The requirement of art. 101, para. 1 of the sub-Supreme more than one fifth, namely 48 of the MPs to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 101, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. Here you are, Doctor, with a question about the availability and functionality of some electronic registers in the field of health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Professor Serbenova, my question is related to the so-called national electronic registers in healthcare. First of all, we have something called the National Screening Register. According to documents, this should exist from 2011, with nearly 2 million already invested. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Nine hundred and BGN 980 for equipment and technical collateral. Its activities and data to be collected are described in Ordinance No 8 on preventive examinations and dispensation. It is also indicated that medical institutions should declare their participation in screening programmes through the register website. Unfortunately, this site is inactive, one does not exist. Do you have any information on whether such a register exists at the time and, if not, is it planned to restore its activity? If it exists, does it contain any machine-processing information and can it be used for management decisions from now on? In this regard, we also have a National Cancer Register in which, over the past few years, data have gradually changed in a direction that does not correspond to the real health situation in our country.... reduces data as volume and as completeness. The employees in the National Cancer Register are in constant uncertainty about the future of the structure, although there is a huge and acute need for their specific competence. What is the vision of the Ministry of Health for the digitalization of existing data and their development of this important international register as part of the national health information system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u245	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u246	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Simidchiev, regarding the National Screening Register under Ordinance No 8 of 2016 on preventive examinations and dispensation that you mentioned are described the activity and data that collects the National Screening Register and that provides for each screening to be carried out according to a specific methodology in compliance with the relevant programme and set financial parameters. The national screening register should be part of an organised screening system that is created by the State and aims to provide monitoring, control, analysis and reporting of the indicators of screening activity, and you have rightly noted that this should also be a secure basis for decision-making. The organised screening system shall include the National Screening Register and coordinators designated locally by the relevant regional health inspections. The National Screening Register shall be kept by the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis. The Ordinance lays down the mandatory data to be contained in it the obligations for the identification of the screened groups and for the registration of the screened persons, as well as the creation and keeping of an electronic file of each member of the screened group. It is included in the technical assignment for the development and implementation of the National Health and Information System, i.e. we have foreseen this process to be incorporated into the National Health Information System, and the activity includes updating and upgrade of the said register, i.e., the need to enter more information and its integration with the NHI respectively. The deadline for completion of the project is the end of 2022, with that register being one of the priority ones and in practice this is the period for overall integration and for putting all the functionalities into operational action. This register will be provided for inclusion earlier. Regarding the National Cancer Register. Section VII of Ordinance No 6/2018 on the validation of medical oncology provides that it is to be maintained as an electronic database and to be of a business nature. It should carry out systematic collection, storage, analysis, interpretations, publication of data on persons with malignancies and cancer in the situation. When reviewing the state of the National Cancer Register it was found, of course, that it was built on an extremely outdated technology base, allowing including manual input of data. It is entrusted to a working group of experts in the Ministry of Education to update the working processes, including what I said about the previous register to include new parameters, adding new monitoring and control parameters. I assure you, it is also included in the technical task for the development and implementation of the National Health Information System....................................................................................... That is, both registers will be supplemented with respect to necessary data, as well as monitoring, and with its updating, of course, integration with the NZIS will also be realized. What I would add if I had a little more time, or... Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u247	Maybe.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u248	Literally today before noon we had a conversation not only about these two registers, but about all the types of registers, if I use this word at all, because this will actually be a database of a person with certain diseases and with the generation of a reference and access to their files will be generated and the relevant register I put in quotes, the relevant database, and here we are at a stage discussing how a notification will be received that someone has had access to our e-file, and for what purposes. Because for the purposes of management decisions they will be anonymised, of course, for the purpose of emergency aid, there should be direct access, and for the purposes of a specialist there should already be prior approval by the patient concerned for access to the file. So we're basically at access level in the creation of these registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u249	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u250	Thank you very much for your answer. Since specifically for the National Cancer Register there our commitments are international, that is, there is a key component that is related to the frequency of these diseases at national level and the possibility to participate in international projects and collaborations, if it is possible to prioritize its integration into the NIS, it would be great. Thank you very much for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u251	Thank you, Doctor. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I declare, of course, to you that we will prioritize this register, as well as you know the commitment we have made to drawing up the National Cancer Plan. So I guess that's what you mean as international commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u253	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We've run out of questions for you today. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Culture atanas Atanasov. The first question is from Yavor Bojankov, I don't see it. Yvelin Ivanov? Same. So, Ms. Nencheva, I suggest that we move on to the question from you regarding the process of updating the status of group real estate group cultural monument. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u254	Honourable Minister, honourable Members, Honourable Mr. Chairman! The mission of all Bulgarians is to preserve Bulgarian memory by restoring historical monuments and this should be a mission for all generations of Bulgarians. In this regard Karlovo gives Bulgaria some of the most significant historical figures, undoubtedly the greatest is that of the Apostle of Bulgarian freedom. But two patriotic donors, born 200 years ago, are the brothers Evlogi and Hristo Georgiev, forever remained in the hearts of the Bulgarians as an example of self-serving and many noble causes. They support scholarship students in reputable educational institutions, support with material resources schools, community centers, churches, a number of companies and public organizations. They donate money to the hospital in Galac then, to the Bulgarian girls' school in Thessaloniki, to the Bulgarian hospital in Constantinople. The wreath of their donation is the higher school for the Bulgarians, the building of Sofia University, donating a plot of over 10 thousand. kv. M and a huge amount of money. For their fellow citizens in the town of Karlovo donate funds to secondary technical school and weave factory. Thus Evlogi and Hristo Georgiev respond to the needs of the population for livelihood in the hard years after the Liberation. Unfortunately, the factory is now private property and the owner's carelessness condemns it to ruin. The villa, a little architectural jewelry to the factory, is municipal property and needs strengthening and reconstruction. In recent years, the roof has irreversibly collapsed, it has lowered with it and the outside walls of the villa. Now she's in an unbecoming state. It's the dream of carlovers to bring the villa back to life together. Its destiny is to become a cozy place for academic and cultural activities. In this regard, Mr. Minister, with a letter, I am. No 0800 456-1, of 9 December 2020 at the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage has been requested and initiated a procedure for status update, a change in the category of local importance............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My question to you is: what is the course and at what stage is the procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u255	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u256	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Nencheva! In December 2020, the Municipality of Karlovo submitted a request to the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage or NIKN to update the status of Evlogi Georgiev's villa. After a detailed review of the submitted documentation by the experts of NINKN the Municipality of Karlovo is informed of the need to complete and revise it and to provide additional graphical documentation. To date, the Ministry of Culture and NINKN have not responded by the Municipality of Karlovo and the requested information and documentation has not been provided. After providing the relevant materials and after carrying out all necessary examinations, studies and collection of the complete set of documents by the Institute's experts on sites, proposals will be drawn up under the Cultural Heritage Act for the provision of status and designation of classification, categorisation and conservation regimes, including single real cultural values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Ms. Nencheva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I thank you for the information I have just heard from you, and I am surprised that perhaps a year and more this process has been halted for vague reasons for me as behaviour by the Municipality of Karlovo?! I will try to obtain information that is necessary for this process to be triggered, because I said at the very beginning that our mission is to store Bulgarian memory through restoration and historical monuments, especially when they are donated back in time with high value. So thank you for the information. I really didn't expect this particular information, but I'm glad the Ministry has the willingness to cooperate and work. All we have to do is give a hand to the Municipality of Karlovo, because, believe me, the community in Karlovo is willing to do everything possible to bring back to life these important historical objects, all the more so that two years ago we had a unique opportunity. Karlovtsi was in the positive sense involved in a charity case, which brought together many funds and many materials that could help the activity to rebuild the villa and help the municipality itself. So thanks for the hand, we're gonna be looking for it to rebuild this object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u259	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Will there be an asshole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u260	A few supplementary things only, perhaps they would be useful too. According to the legislation in force, final assessments should be drawn up within the meaning of art. 61, para. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act for all objects belonging to the group cultural value. In this regard, the Municipality of Karlovo has been informed of the submission of the filled-in tickets for each of the sites. By letter dated 16 March 2022, NIKN reiterated its request to provide the necessary information. So very soon we have written to them again, we have requested this information, and once the documents are received, we will be able to continue the procedure, but we are so ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are now moving on to the issue from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov concerning the repair of a 3-century bridge over the Belitsa river in the town of Debelets, Veliko Tarnovo district.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we are talking about a 3-century bridge over the Belitsa River. It is also about the cultural architectural and historical heritage in Veliko Tarnovo, which has repeatedly suffered from the actions of the Municipality. I recall the case of the Gallery and a repair that was done with PVC windows. That's the same thing. From a publication in social networks, the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo said that the bridge affected by the floods several years ago was restored. According to Daniel Panov, the stone facility is more than three centuries old and has been restored with materials and in a way that preserves its authenticity. However, we can see from the photos that this beautiful ancient stone bridge was rebuilt with some sort of bathroom tiles. He looks insane, he looks ugly, he looks disgusting, he looks totally unacceptable. I know, Mr. Minister, that this is not in your competence. You are neither a contracting entity nor a contractor of the repairs, but my hope is, however, as a Minister of Culture, that your institution can take charge and will do so. My question is: were all legal requirements met and the architectural and cultural heritage of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality and suitable materials in the repair of the facility in place when approving the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u263	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Bojankov! Representatives of the Directorate-General for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture have carried out an on-site inspection and verification of documents which have identified significant deviations in the implementation of the agreed investment project and the current state of the facility. I've seen pictures too. Detailed information was requested from Veliko Tarnovo Municipality on the implementation and how to award the conservation and restoration activities of the site. In view of the above, and in relation to the continuation of the verification activities, administrative criminal proceedings are to be initiated to Veliko Tarnovo Municipality and the submission of the available documentation for prosecution check whether pre-trial proceedings are to be initiated for the modification and damage of a real cultural value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u265	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u266	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am satisfied with the response and the measures taken. We'll keep an eye on that because it's an inheritance. The bridge was there long before us, and long after us, it's an inheritance we leave to our children. This is the bridge that is valuable to generations before and after us. It is absolutely unacceptable what the Municipality of Veliko Tarnovo does. It's even weirder that she brags about it. I ask myself the question: those people who have started and done this repair, don't have friends, don't they have anyone to advise them and tell them people, it's not for bragging, it's not normal, it's unacceptable in the 21st century to happen to our cultural and architectural heritage. So I'm pleased with your answer. We will expect follow-up and results. We will follow, at last, because this issue, when we put it in relation to the Gallery and the PVC windows placed on it, then an understanding by the Minister of GERB did not meet. In your face, however, things are different, which is a ray of hope that we are moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u267	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Is there a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. There is another question for you from the MP Yvelin, whom I do not see in the Chamber. We've run out of questions and questions for you. Mr. Atanasov, thank you for your participation in control. It's out of the question at the last minute. [[Reply of MP Nikolina Angelkova.]] No, no! He'll come for real! There will be time for Mrs. Angelkova's question. There'll be time to ask. We called him as soon as we knew he was out of the questioning, so we saved ten minutes. At any moment Minister Prodanov will come to hear the answer to Mrs. Angelkova's question every four minutes is from here. Mrs. Angelkova, I suggest we leave your question for the next time, it will be at the beginning of the rotation, since we have reached it anyway. [[(Reply of the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova:]] There's four minutes till he gets here, we just found out. We're listening, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u268	Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. For the second time, there is a parliamentary control last time was 11.00 at 12:00 at night, when on your proposal of the ruling coalition the working time of the National Assembly was extended until the agenda was completed, until the control was exhausted and there were no ministers. Accordingly, parliamentary control has failed. At the moment we have, perhaps not 10 minutes until the end of today's parliamentary control, according to your extended time, and again the minister is missing. It was only right that this minister, whoever is in order in this case is the Minister of Tourism, to wait, because obviously it is not for the first time that there is a lack of or MPs asking their questions, and the ministers are obliged to be here to be able to walk on the agenda of control. This question I have asked is no longer remembered, perhaps two months ago and the Minister of Tourism is always one of the last and in most cases there is always not enough time to get there and this question to be asked. I really don't like having to wait for next week's parliamentary control again, it may not be the 7th, the 8th, the 9th, the 10th, with a lot of questions from the deputy prime ministers before it, and again it may not be enough time to answer that question. He, I think, is extremely important in view of the fact that the summer season is literally ahead of us, the tourism sector has extremely great difficulties and difficulties with regard to the continuing pandemic of COVID-19, of the war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u270	Mr. Secretary, good afternoon!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u271	Before we get to the point, since you took the procedure, I'm going to take the liberty of answering it myself. We don't have to make any remarks about minor delays or anything. Since you have raised the subject, I will tell you this: there have been three questions and questions to Minister Atanas Atanasov. If he had informed, that would have been known by the administration to call the relevant minister to come earlier. Because if this question had taken place by the National Representative, we see that Mr. Prodanov is just in time to stand up for the next one on the list. Yes, the people's representative hasn't notified it, it's happening. Therefore, a delay of 3 minutes is obtained. It is not necessarily necessary to do a procedure in which to explain why the ministers are not in parliamentary control. We can just move on very well. Welcome now to develop your question to Hristo Prodanov about the status of national resorts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u272	Mr. Chairman, before I start with the question you are right, I took a procedure because you asked me if I wanted to postpone the question for the next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u274	For this reason, otherwise you are right, and Minister Prodanov has always been correct and has come to answer the questions. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Minister Prodanov! The tourism sector is one of the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic of the war in Ukraine. Literally, the reservations are paused and puts the sector in an extremely difficult situation in a situation of lack of planning and predictability. National resorts are the face of Bulgarian tourism and before the pandemic a large part of the international tourist resort is the Bulgarian resort, but mainly the international resorts were in the national resorts, especially in the summer national resorts. Given the specifics of Bulgarian tourism and the fact that maybe more than 70% of the international tourist tourism is related to the summer tourism product. In this regard, for many years, representatives of the industry wanted to have a special status of the national resorts - an extremely difficult topic with regard to the specifics of each national resort for the fact that in view of the privatisation there are mixing of different properties on the territory of the national resorts - both state and municipal and private. Long years of debates and discussions were held on the topic until a solution was found, highlighted by the changes in the Law on Tourism, which were published in February 2020, and Chapter Four was created. 56b provides for the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a regulation for national resorts on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Health. In this regard, I would like to ask you how far has this regulation been prepared? Accordingly, what is your vision of the status of national resorts? Do you think that such a regulation should be drawn up and made, or do you foresee changes to the Tourism Act, which otherwise and what, if so, you foresee national resorts to operate with a view, again I say, the specifics in terms of ownership and, of course, all activities related to them to be attractive to international and Bulgarian tourists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u276	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, a few questions you have asked You yourself said that there really is a specific in national resorts, especially summer resorts, everyone has some individual case and individual problem. Regarding whether the provision of such a regulation has begun or where the provision of such a regulation has come to, the answer is no, the preparation of such a regulation has not yet begun. Otherwise, I agree with you that really the face of national resorts determines to a large extent the vision and face of Bulgarian tourism, especially summer tourism. But so far, as you said, as a result of privatization and as a result of the confused state policy, there have been extremely many problems and cases related to the functioning of national resorts. There is no way for one to collect the money from taxes, from local taxes and fees and so on, and another for free, to maintain infrastructure and we will ask for these resorts to have a European look and create a good image for Bulgaria. And the third thing you asked me about is my personal opinion about what it should look like and what the regulations should be about how national resorts should be managed. My personal opinion is that this should be done in a separate law that is something like the Industrial Zones Act. I mean, to know who runs the infrastructure, who's responsible for what. Because blurring responsibility leads to the problems that are constantly being created in the management of national resorts. So we will work in this direction, but this will happen after a very broad public discussion, because as you yourself said, and I repeated it, the situation is specific. For different resorts there are different problems, different owners, different systems and everything is extremely individual.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Angelkova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u278	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Yes, you are absolutely right, and I agree with you, and I support this was also my policy as Minister of Tourism in the period 2014-2020, namely in order to avoid this injustice, the revenue from tourist tax, local taxes and fees of accommodation located in the territory of the national resorts, to be collected by municipalities, and therefore not to return to the resorts in order to improve both infrastructure and advertising and overall the image of the national resort itself, so that it can attract more tourist accommodation and thus represent Bulgaria as an attractive and secure place for tourism. I will expect what you are preparing as a legislative initiative, as a bill. Of course, and if you decide, we will also take part in the broad discussions with the industry that you foresee so that it can really be found, although I believe that this regulation could begin to find a functioning mechanism so that this tension and division can be stopped, which is monitored by the individual entities operating, operating and operating on the territory of national resorts. However, since such a public discussion and return to the subject would take a long time, and the Tourism Act is in force, it would be good to start developing this regulation, which will certainly further show where certain processes need to be smoothed and what needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u280	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, there is no doubt that we will invite you to these discussions and you will decide whether you will come. My position is that it does not matter which parties govern and which are in opposition. The broad discussion, which includes all opposition ruling parties and the direct involvement of business with stakeholders, will lead to the most correct and most working solution. As far as I know, yesterday there was a hearing in your committee of the Executive Director of Sunny Beach and I assume that you know the case very well the company is 75% state-owned and 25% belongs to a number of private shareholders, i.e. it is state-owned. At the same time, the State and the Ministry of Tourism as a representative of the State do not have special opportunities to intervene both in politics and in the determination of the management of the company, because it is of the competence of the General Assembly, which chooses the Board of Directors, who manages the company. This really needs to be done as soon as possible, and it really does need to be regulated. There must be strict control, as I said at the beginning of the answer to the question, that the person who receives the funds from the tourist tax and local taxes and fees has the opportunity to maintain the infrastructure, because what is currently happening is an enchanted circle and no one is responsible. My position is that there must always be someone who is responsible, because otherwise there is this chaos that we are currently observing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-25.u281	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this we have exhausted the questions to Minister Hristo Prodanov. Thank you for coming on such short notice. With this, the time of today's sitting is over. We're adjourned. The next regular meeting will take place on Wednesday at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
