ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Declaration by Mr. Karimanski and procedure afterwards by Peter Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At today's meeting of the Council of Ministers is provided a point for the adoption of a National Plan for the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria. 20 days ago this topic was raised and all parliamentary groups were very concerned about the need for the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria. It is strange that neither the Budget and Finance Committee nor in plenary this plan has been presented as it has been presented on several occasions by the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Do we understand that the MPs, as they looked at the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, do not want to look at the National Plan for the introduction of the euro, which is much more important, not only for the government, but also for the MPs. Extremely strange and suspicious is the silence of the ARCHER group [[Laughter]] after defending so enthusiastically from this tribune those for the euro area. I hope you're not looking for an explanation or that we should rather be looking for an explanation for their silence in a single vote 20 days ago. It is important to note that our country's integration into the euro area is a political and economic project that depends on the government and, to the extent necessary, legislative support from parliament. However, this does not mean that Parliament should not be informed of the details and processes of the proposed National Plan for the introduction of the euro. I hope that the coalition and our coalition partners have not forgotten, and I will not need to remind them that for all of them one of their priorities is the adoption of the euro after a large-scale explanatory campaign. Moreover, in the same agreement on coalition governance, an analysis of the benefits and negatives of the introduction of the euro is envisaged. To date, as far as we know, such an analysis has not been introduced into the National Assembly, but such an analysis should be available, as the process of preparation for the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the euro area has been launched for a long time, such as the entry of BGN into the exchange rate mechanism II and joining the banking union through close cooperation with the European Central Bank under the supervision of a part of the banking system in the country. Therefore, given the need to deepen the discussion on the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria, by discussing the benefits of adopting the euro in Bulgaria, which need to exceed the costs and to exceed the challenges, by making sure that the adoption of the euro eliminates the currency risk for citizens, companies and government, and the euro-rate rate is necessarily fixed at 1.95583, taking into account the impact of the internal and external environment, as well as the possibility that the effect of the shock on inflation will become permanent, taking into account the possible possibility of extending the criteria for euro area membership and not least taking into account the need to ensure that, with the entry into the euro, respectively, the adoption of the euro in Bulgaria will increase the sustainability of the business activity in the country in case of serious economic turmoil. There is such a people that we would like to discuss in the National Assembly, together with all MPs, the National Plan for the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria. If you are not concerned with the other MPs who are silent, we are concerned. Thank you. [[Applause from ISN, GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will make a procedural proposal, in view of the agenda that was adopted and voted yesterday and in line with the course of the plenary session of yesterday, today's first point are the draft decisions of the colleagues from We have also made proposals for amendments to the committees, which will be seen as point three for today. My procedural proposal is, because these proposals concern, in any case, in one way or another, the composition of specific permanent committees, I propose that, honourable Members, we put both points together, namely both points, to be considered as item one on the agenda and to have discussions in common on them, of course, each decision to be voted on separately. However, in order to ensure that today's agenda is implemented, at least in this part, I propose that the two points be merged and dealt with as item one of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Petrov's proposal is that all draft decisions, which are referred to in point 6th and point 7 of the Programme and relate amendments to the permanent committees of the National Assembly, be discussed in a joint discussion under one common point and finally vote separately, of course. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. I put Peter Petrov's proposal to the vote. 200 MPs voted: 120, against 25, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Vote 192 MPs: 115, against 25, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. Before we move to point one for today, which will be precisely the changes on the committees, I will only read a few messages. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with crew members of the Royal Air Force of Australia. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 4 May 2022 by IC. No 47 203 09-45 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly has received: - Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for 2022, with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union on 31 March 2022, adopted by Decision No 249 of the Ministerial of 2022; - Update for 2022 of the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by Decision No 247 of the Council of Ministers of 2022; - Convergence Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria 2022 - 2025 adopted by Decision No 262 of the Council of Ministers of 2022. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to all the Standing Committees. On 3 May 2022 at the National Assembly of the Economic and Social Council, opinions were received on the topic of the European Commission's initiative of the European Commission, prepared for target 55 in the Bulgarian context and resolution on the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence, published in the Public Consultation Portal on 13 January 2021. By letters of the ISC, the materials are addressed and provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the resolution on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence published in the Public Consultation Portal on 13 January 2021 was submitted to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. The National Statistical Institute received information on inflation and consumer price indexes for March 2022, Economic Conjuncture in April 2022, Indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market in the industry March 2022. We move on to item one of the agenda for today, namely: CHANGES IN COMMITMENTS. Several projects have been deposited. First, I ask that the projects submitted by the Parliamentary Group be presented. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance (GB, No. 111 of 2021) and for changes in the composition of the committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance ( SG No. 111 of 2021) There is such a people, 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria and 2 of the Parliamentary Group are replaced by 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the "There is such a people" and 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria." 2. make the following changes to the composition of the Committee on Budget and Finance: (a) from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) releases... as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance; (b) from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people's... as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs (SG. No. 111 of 2021) and for changes in the composition of the Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the Election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs ( SG No. 111 of 2021) There is such a people, 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria and 2 of the Parliamentary Group are replaced by 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the "There is such a people" and 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria." 2. make the following changes to the composition of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: (a) from the Parliamentary Group of the "Democratic Bulgaria" (Democratic Bulgaria) releases... as a member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs; (b) from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people's... as a member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 2. He elected Hristinka Ilycheva Ivanova as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Snezhanka Raychova Trajanska as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. 2. He elected Tanner Kadir Turkoglu as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I would also ask one of my fellow Members from AGE to present their projects for solutions. Mr. Petrov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs (SG. No. 111 of 2021) and for changes in the composition of the Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the Election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs ( SG No. 111 of 2021) the number ssq.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.h. 2. Daniel Petrov Petrov is elected from the parliamentary group of the party as a member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance ( SG No. 111 of 2021) the number ssq.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.h. 2. Iskra Mihailova Mihailova, a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance, is elected from the parliamentary group of the party. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on the Direct Participation of Citizens and Interaction with Civil Society The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Iskra Mihailova Mihailova as a member of the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the election of the Committee I'm sorry. I made a mistake. My fellow Members, first of all, to apologize, there is a technical error in drawing up the draft decision. I'm doing an editorial amendment, and I'm going to read it as a t. 2 of the Decision: "2." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision to elect the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society (SG. 111 of 2021) the number s "17" is replaced by "16" and the number "S1" is replaced by "0" is replaced by "Thank you."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I am opening a discussion on the submitted drafts of decisions. Colleagues, are there anyone who would like to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The introduction of these proposals is a result of the efforts of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" to recover what was wronged in the initial adoption of these decisions. I would like to make it clear that there is such a people who do not want members of the committee in more than what is due to it in accordance with the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely that it is clearly stated that the composition of the committees is determined in relation to the proportion of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. For the past two months, we have been calling and begging even to review the compositions and number of committees, because we believe that even if we have later realised the errors, it is appropriate to correct them. There is such a people. Unfortunately, it is wronged in the big committees with two MPs based on the calculations we have made. If you wish, we can provide them to all Members of the National Assembly. There are so many people who are wronged by two MPs, i.e. by the four major committees on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Budget Committee, Environment and Labour, we are entitled to a total of 10 MPs. We currently have eight on four committees of two MPs. In the same way should be the ratio, so comes out of the accounts and of the BSP for Bulgaria. However, they have 12 MPs, they should have 10 MPs, they should have six, they should have eight, and the DPS are wronged, I say it very seriously, and GERB are also wronged. The most privileged in the table that we have made are "Democratic Bulgaria." They have seven MPs in more than what they have as a burden, or six places. They even have unoccupied committees because their numbers are small, there are many committees and there is no way to fill them. They were also supported by the Bulgarian BSP, as I said. They benefit from a man and little. It's pretty much the same ratio as we do. The difference, you know, is a MP. That is why we have made proposals to increase the number of such people in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and in the Committee on Budget and Finance by removing the relevant people from the other two committees. We think that's fair, that's right. Yeah, maybe, and I'm pretty sure a task force needs to be formed. We must very carefully review the compositions of all parliamentary committees and see, where someone is favored, that they make room for those who are wronged if the relevant parliamentary groups so wish. Of course, we make a claim to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance, because, you know, these are still the most important parliamentary committees in the National Assembly and we believe that our claims should be directed in this direction. With regard to decisions. And here I would like to make it clear, we also said yesterday at the Conference of Presidents that we will support every parliamentary group that is wronged in order to get what is due to it in relation to the votes that the voters received from the elections for the forty-seventh National Assembly. With regard to the decisions of the ARRANGEMENT Group. I would like to draw attention to the fact that they, as a total, were damaged by 0.4, that is, roughly with half a person, but on the basis of the four major committees, they are also damaged. They must have five MPs, and they have four, that is, one in each of the major parliamentary committees, so they are entitled to make and state their claim in respect of one of the major committees. Unfortunately, there is no way for both parliamentary committees to support a budget and constitutional and legal issues, as they will be already benefited and will be on top. With regard to the Commission for the direct participation of citizens. There I make a proposal point 2 of the decision of the ARCEL group to drop out, as they actually, if they take one place in one of the major committees, should actually release one place in a committee with 17 members, so the bill shows. That is, they must release Iskra Mihailova, without reducing the number of the Commission from 17 to 16, and this released number should be occupied by a MP from a parliamentary group, of course, which is wronged. I am merely paying attention to the increase in the number in the Legal Committee from 23 to 24, perhaps this, let us see how the vote will be adopted, and if it is adopted, we really need to sit down and consider it, as if the Group of Revival gets one person more in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and possibly a Budget Committee, one of these two committees must come out at the expense of AGE. I mean, the one who benefits in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Georgi Svilensky for a line. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Mitova, seven minutes you're talking about some benefit, some broken proportions, some broken rules. Perhaps you know better than I do, there is a 30-year parliamentary practice on how parliamentary committees are defined. They are defined precisely on the basis of representation of the parliamentary groups, but not in one committee, but in all 23 committees. And if you claim that the BSP is most favorable for having a person and eight more in all parliamentary committees, the colleague from the Committee on Complaints of Citizens is giving up at this time so that there is not that person and eight more who is in excess. But it's math. There is no way BSP in the Legal Commission, where they have 2.6, how to divide Krum Zarkov into two, half to go to Law School, half to go to the Budget Commission. [[Laughter and excitement.]] If there's two of them, with that 0.6, what's going to happen? That is why this proportion is and that is why I say that there has been a parliamentary practice for 30 years and that is why all the committees are watched together. And you can't look at one committee that you're wronged and another committee that you're not wronged. You said yourself: we offer two people in Law and Budget and withdraw two others from other committees. Why do you withdraw them when you're wronged? [[Reply from MP Iva Miteva.]] So you're not changing anything, you're changing... [[Reply from MP Iva Miteva.]] Why are you replacing them? You're wronged. You're wronged, aren't you? All you have to do is add. [[Replication by National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] I mean, you want something else. You want a change in some committees on citizens' complaints, on Bulgarians abroad not to have people, and in others to have five people for example. Well, that's not gonna happen. Again, there's matrix, table, parliamentary practice. The colleagues from GERB know it, the colleagues from DPS know it. I will then say that we are wronged in the Sports Committee, for example, because we have a right to 2.8, and we have two, so these are not arguments at all. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I suggest we reject all decisions. This thing is decided by the Chairman's Council, this thing is decided by dialogue, not by decisions put on angro, as some people say. [[noise and lines]] , and watch them today in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u13	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The second is from Mr. Gurov and the third for Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, because Mrs. Miteva is talking about justice, I have a slightly higher level to raise the discussion and to say what justice means. Justice means to distribute the seats in the committees to one approved by all the rules together. These rules, we have gathered, as Mr. Svilensky mentioned, and they are established by practice. You are very familiar with them, there are tables that make calculations. On the basis of these rules, we made a general allocation for all committees, which was okay for everyone. Everyone has agreed to this distribution. So for me it's a little weird how now, 3 months after the initial distribution of places, suddenly we decided it wasn't fair, someone was profiting. Interesting, no mention was made of the band of the "Keep On Changing." I don't know how she doesn't always end up on the side of those who benefit, but that's a whole other topic. So as far as the Budget and Finance Commission and the Legal Commission are concerned, there are 23 people in the Commission. By taking the number of individual groups and in the total 240 deputies, the weights in the committees come out and the numbers are distributed in a proportionate manner with the largest remainder. In this scheme, which is approved by everyone, it is clearly visible how many people should have ITN, "Democratic Bulgaria" and "We continue the Change" and "DPS" and so on. So if we have to talk about justice, there's only one possible and appropriate way for the distribution to be done fairly again, and it's to make a working group, sit down, look at the rules. If we agree that these rules, despite many years of practice, must be changed, then we should change them and make a new division of committees. This is the only meaningful and possible way to approach this case. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Karimanski for the third line. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a line for Mrs. Miteva. Mrs. Miteva, I should have been more precise in the figures, and I will now try to say even more precisely what you have served here from this tribune, as I hear from people who are dealing with economics and finances that somehow they have considered, and they have not calculated fully. So let's be exact in weights. Right in the weights, because I will remind Mrs. Miteva, she probably forgot at the beginning, when we discussed the division of committees, that some members of parliamentary groups ignored our proposal and considered that they had a much harder opinion. Therefore, if we have four major committees on 23 MPs, we should consider the weights for each of the parliamentary groups how much it does. And so if the weight, Mr. Svilensky, is 2.49, not 2.69, your bill is wrong, count it again, 2.49 is on BSP, 2.49 is on you. If your weight is 2.49, four committees does not make 12 people. [[Heckling]] [[a line from National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] Four committees are on 23rd. That's it. So 2.49 on four major committees makes 10 representatives, and you have 12. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u17	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u18	You have 12. That's it. ISN has a weight of 2.39. Four committees on 2.39 should have 10 people, and we have 8 representatives. Not to go any further, because the entire account is clear. I ask you to consider each and every parliamentary group. [[(Reply from..) We continue the Change........................................)............................................................................................................................................................................................................... What ……]] Of course the largest committee has 23 members. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u19	Colleagues, please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u20	There's nothing to replicate from place to place. Large and small.. compare the numbers if you can make a comparison at all. If you can't, it's on you. [[Noise.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u21	Time's up, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u22	After all, if you want, here's the whole bill here, I can show it to you. [[shows documents]] , for each commission with relative weights and any relative weight can be calculated. So please don't go back to the middle course of your education.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I'm asking for some quiet in the room, as it's too noisy. Anyone who is willing to speak will have the opportunity to do so within the framework of the discussion. Mr. Nenkov, I'm sorry, but Mr. Karimansky had asked for a third line a lot earlier. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u24	I don't know what to say. I think the accounts are clear. I think we should stop talking just like that so we can go out and say something. We go out, we say something, we break the rules; we go out, we say something, we break the Constitution. We just do what we want. I see we're breaking the math, too. So, we keep changing, you've taken as much as you deserve. You have 131 members, you are entitled to 130.93 max. From there we go to BSP 52 have, they are due 50.8. ISN 48, they're due 48.85. DB's 39 has taken, it's due to 31.26. GERB " 112" have taken, have the right to 115,29. The DPS has taken 62, they have a right to 66.44. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] ARCHIVED 25 have taken, have the right to 25.4. So I said that they have claims because by calculating in the big committees, which are really the most important, if you multiply 23 by four, by the number of MPs and divide it into 24, you have 9,96........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we, on 10 March, are asking and appealing for a review of the committees in the coalition council. Since March 10th, that's two months! Two months! On the first date we were told: yes, you have the right, yes, we will, and from there the conversation is over. That's why we've come this far to tell each other the truth as it is. With regard to the committees, yes, at the beginning, at the first meeting I think the ratio was different. Then I admit that I wasn't involved with Mr. Karimansky in the next meeting, so I guess things have been missed. Unfortunately, with regard to the chairmen of the committees, there is no text in the Rules of Procedure, so all the chairmen of the committees are allowed to be from the ruling majority, which, Mr Svilenski, in the 30-year history of the National Assembly has never happened. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u25	For Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u26	Mr. Chairman, I only do one procedure. Since the debate seems to be going in tables, bills, numbers, let's say Mr. Karimansky doesn't see it, which sign are we going to round to? By the second, by the third, by the fourth sign? Because by one round we're two, by the other we're 2.4, 2.48 we're not 2.49. But 2,484, that's 2,48. This math here won't work. That is why I say that there is parliamentary practice and correctly said Mrs. Miteva "BSP has the right to 50.8, but by distributing the members because these are people, these are not potatoes or tomatoes to divide them 1.2 by 1.6, these are MPs elected by Bulgarian citizens and 50.2 cannot become neither 50, nor 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u27	Mr. Svilensky, this is a statement. Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u28	So I'm doing a procedure to specify to which sign are you going to make the rounds to the third, to the fourth, to the fifth sign, so that we can see in the other groups how the proportion will be? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u29	Mr. Ivanov, are you speaking? Here you go. Mr. Nenkov, do you want the floor of speech? No. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u30	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, parliament likes to have fun in this way with intrigues and some domestic attacks, but this job doesn't look good. And that's why I wish we could go back to some plane of common sense. It's not the place in a parliamentary room for these things to do these bills. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That is why I want, of course, when, in a political process, we are suddenly deciding to review them, this poses very important political issues, but I will not deal with it. I would like to make a pragmatic proposal and declare that if it comes to the conclusion that, objectively, we have, in some way, received more and specifically in the Legal Commission, I will personally leave the Commission without making any drama out of it. But I think that if a formula that is built on many decisions and made, one element of it we are going to review, it is wiser to review it all, especially because, and I have said it here at the moment that the committees voted, the main disadvantage of what we have done with the division of committees, is that we have violated the parliamentary principle that the opposition should have adequate representation in the chair offices of the committees. [[Applause.]] I'm not saying it now. I said it then. And so give, speaking of justice, to make a working group, I am seriously talking, with the opposition involved, which really objectively reconsiders the composition of the committees, Belkim and some misunderstandings, purely concrete, personal, decide them for the chair seats, and get to a much better model. In this sense, my proposal, Mr President, is to ask Members to reject this proposal, the President of Parliament, to initiate the establishment of this committee, which within a week, to submit a report with concrete proposals, I say again, with the participation of the opposition and with its consensus, as we should initially approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the replica of Tosko Yordanov. Iskra Mihaylova after that. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, you're absolutely right about almost everything you said. That's right, the opposition is damaged. The fact is, when we were discussing these committees, we made it very clear. Let's not quote how the conversation took place that they were internal coalition, what lines were there from the partners on the subject, but it is also a fact that what we are currently proposing is true. There is a harm to the people in these committees, and if we are to go to justice, yes, let us first bring justice to these committees, then let us make a working group and let the other parliamentary groups receive what they need to receive in these committees. So let's not hide and delay it. You know very well that this issue was raised internally a month ago and something was conveniently pushed into the corner, so it came to this. And there is no shame in Parliament deciding things that concern it, not just in the hallways. So to do justice, to vote justice in these committees, then to make a working group and to hope that within a month and something it will achieve some result. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Iskra Mihaylova for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u34	Mr. Ivanov, these decisions that are being commented at the moment are not so complicated. What you are trying to do again by stalling, with working groups, we have already seen it with your group and your temporary committee with the Constitution. That's exactly how much work you're gonna do in this task force you're offering, and that's pretty clear to us. So these swirling movements to postpone and for the fact that "Democratic Bulgaria" has damaged the rest of the parliamentary groups here, please do not try to apply them to us in this simple way. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Third line, Mr. Letifov, please come in. It was given to Mr. Karadayi. You have the floor, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have a very short line. I congratulate you first on the courage to admit it, but the result is when the supreme body meets at the mall. Therefore our request is not to meet at the mall, let it be in the National Assembly. The Supreme Authority should invite the opposition and we should have surveillance. And to tell your coalition partners who insist we agreed at the mall, only part of the coalition partners dispute the decision from the mall. This is already the problem when it is challenged, obviously there is no understanding. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. For the back, Mr. Ivanov? Would you like a douche? Petar Petrov was enrolled for a speech, then Professor Mihaylov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, we have heard so far mathematical calculations, mathematics disputes. As one colleague said, he will try to raise the discussion to a higher level, I will try to raise it to an even higher level at the level of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Bulgaria. Yeah, first of all is the bill. Our formal motive for this proposal is the mathematical accounts according to which, in the four most important permanent parliamentary committees, our parliamentary group is wronged by one person, at the expense of "Democratic Bulgaria" who should have a total of six members, have eight. On the other hand, they have given up their participation entirely in other less important ones, to say, without insulting the MPs, committees in the National Assembly. These are the bills. Except besides the formal and mathematical motive of our proposal, there is another informal motive. It is called non-confidence with the opposition in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, specifying that I speak only on behalf of the smallest opposition party I have ever represented, but I also hope that my fellow opposition parties will agree with me. Since the creation and convening of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, it has been shown that there will be no sufficient number of presidential seats in the opposition committees. Not to mention they wouldn't have been given at all. The talks about this were conducted only within the mall or coalition partners. I say this as a representative of the so-called contact group, which is due to our unsuccessful attempts to reach some understanding in the spirit of Bulgarian parliamentaryism on the chairmen of the committees, and consequently the opposition has lost the opportunity to influence the agenda of the permanent parliamentary committees, including the biggest, as the agenda and the draft agenda is singled out by the chairmen of the committees and is voted by the ruling majority, of course. Thus, it was not respected and did not comply with the ruling coalition with the legislative activity of opposition parties in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. It is this informal reason for me that is the main reason for making this reasoned request for a change in the composition of the large parliamentary committees, not for anything else, but for the increase in the number of committees to be heard by the opposition because the opposition has a place in the forty-seventh National Assembly and in the legislative activity carried out in the permanent committees. Let no one be fooled that if we increase the number from 23 to 24, AGE will take control of these two specific committees. No, that's not gonna happen. Let us not delude ourselves that by increasing the number from 23 to 24, there would be no possibility of a quorum for decisions. I will just give an example that, in 95% of the cases, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is now meeting with an even number of members -- twenty-two -- without saying anything bad about any MP. And so far, we've been working five months with twenty-two MPs. I therefore ask you to vote on these proposals for two reasons. The first is: to give a signal to the ruling coalition that the opposition should be respected and that the bills that the opposition submits should be dealt with in the committee within a reasonable period of time, not in violation of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and, on the other hand, that the bills of the ruling coalition should be considered only seven days after they have been submitted, and without any opinions I refer to BSP's bill for the so-called collector companies. Secondly, with this vote, I hope to send a clear message that there are many more MPs in the forty-seventh Parliament and in this Parliament than the required number of coalition governments and coalitions to register for a quorum at the beginning of the plenary session. On the contrary, there's a lot more of us. Let's show it with this vote. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor to speak. Then it's you, Mr. Ganev. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u40	How long does our group have, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u41	Eleven minutes without the call, about fifteen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u42	Yes, thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, it is extremely humiliating for me to listen to what has been happening in the Parliamentary Hall and after yesterday, which was concerning an alarming question for the whole world, we have fallen here... I don't know who is trying to raise the level of the debate. It does not have a debate, there is an ugly, inappropriate fight for people chosen with the popular trust, inappropriate for the sanctity of this hall and for this tribune from which the colosses have spoken, unlike us probably, a serious role in the history of our people and our nation. And I'm asking you, even here I told Mr. Svilensky, to put a scale at the end, to measure how many kilograms each group is, to do precise calculations, to show a table, and according to the weight, everything will be settled. Furthermore, I would like to say: who imagines which are the most important committees in this Parliament, on what grounds? Did you see here how the whole of humanity folded with a medical problem for two years, or did you forget it very quickly?! And now you've decided which are the most important committees, who are the smartest people, who are the most important people, how many must be there members! Colleagues, let's look in the mirror in the morning. Many of you find it difficult to read what they have been written from this tribune. I'm embarrassed to listen to them. So, Mr. President, let's end this unworthy debate. It is not even childish, it is harshly infantile for the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u43	Thank you, Professor. For lines Stanislav Balabanov. Then Victoria Vasileva, if there are no other parliamentary groups willing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Professor Mihailov, I feel like you're yelling at me! Let's rule out any scale, weight, portions, percentages. I see that in plenary, I feel that today is full of mathematicians, but more importantly, what are the principles and why do they come to this? Of course, Budget and Legal Committees are one of the most important committees in Parliament, as Parliament is a legislative body and deals with state budgets. On the other hand, why is the question principled? Because coalition in some of the most important days for this Parliament, these committees were collectively blaming by you, by colleagues from.. Democratic Bulgaria, by colleagues against me, by most MPs. That's why the issue is principled, so there is a debate because we stand by our principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Mihailov, with all due respect to you and to all other colleagues, regardless of which parliamentary group represents, I believe that all emotions come from the fact that most of the colleagues take this as a personal matter. No, Professor Mikhailov, this is not a personal matter, believe me. It's a principle issue, and when you basically put it several times in the format you agreed with your partners that you would work, but you don't get the proper attention, you realize that the only way to get their attention is to put it to the attention of a wider audience. Really accept that we are defending a principled position and we would defend this position when it comes to each of the other parliamentary groups, including yours. You accept that we are only defending something that is due to.. There is such a people...................... there is such a people..... No, we really defend the word "parliamentaryism." Think of it and stop looking at there is such a people as people who are almost trying to inspire conflict. No, on the contrary, we are seeking consent and I think it is the calling of all politicians to seek agreement and unity, not to seek disunity. [[Applause from IHN. Partial applause from the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Third line from Radomir Cholakov. You have the floor, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Mikhailov, with all due respect to you. Indeed, as Mrs. Vasileva said, this is a matter of principle. I am pleased, my fellow Members, that this discussion took place in the Chamber so that we can talk about the principles and that the principle at the beginning of this National Assembly was the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS to receive six or seven committee seats, if I am not mistaken, because it was parliamentary practice and because it was always the rule. The seats in the parliamentary committees, including the parliamentary committees, shall follow the proportions of the parliamentary groups. Colleagues from the PP, and at all from the majority, do you imagine how the National Assembly would work if this principle were then respected? Yesterday we talked: "You must repent, but you must repent, that is, you said it to us. Can you imagine how the National Assembly would have worked if you had respected the principle? Colleagues, I note that a job, when it goes wrong, goes wrong until it gets better. One trial, beginning with sin, ends with sin. This consensus, which has now very interestingly begun to plead here from the parliamentary tribune, may begin to stand up, fellow Members, if you really listen to these proposals that have been made. Rethink the entire system, no shame, no fear. Let the opposition receive its presidential seats, which are due to it by parliamentary custom, and see all things begin to happen one by one afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, at the last replicator, as you said, with all due respect to you, BSP had 80 MPs in the 44th National Assembly, which lasted four years, Mr. Cholakov. And do you know how many chairmen there were in committees?! Three! Eighty MPs, three committees! We're talking about principles, right?! Secondly, if you play your videos from a meeting of the National Assembly "The Forty-fourth," you will see how you rightfully led Bulgaria downhill with your majority without any discussion. I once told you this here during a budget discussion because Mr. Balabanov said the most important law. Finally, the minutes of the opposition end, your group president becomes here, knocks the map royally in the stands, all of you applaud him and with the waltz of the majority... and the DPS suffers, and the BSP suffers. But it was not a false observance of the law, a front, the so-called facade democracy, to remind you of this phrase. So I don't want to get into a debate. I don't want anyone... To pay attention, seriously, because here Mr. Balabanov took the liberty, I would like to congratulate you on yesterday's speech during the big serious debate, but sometimes one has to be a little sharper to know where we are going. So, again, with all due respect to all my colleagues, don't remind me of the past, the nearness, because we have suffered it for four years, we know it very well. There will be a dialogue "I congratulate once again Mr. Hristo Ivanov for what he said, there should be dialogue, but do not make fun of the mall, colleagues. For the first time, negotiations were held before the eyes of the entire nation! In the eyes of the entire nation! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]] It's the truth! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u51	Thank you, Professor. To speak, Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u52	Mr. Chairman, today I feel like I've been at deja vu since yesterday. From this tribune we see BSP fiercely defending democratic Ukraine in Bulgaria. This is the second time this has happened. Yesterday you voted together for the vote on military technical assistance to Ukraine. Today you will vote together only to protect that you have more members undeserved in the committees. What are the facts? Facts?! The facts are that from the first day of this Parliament, the ruling coalition is crushing and trampled the opposition. And a moment ago I heard a pathos how BSP were so crushed, I don't know what they were doing for years by GERB, and at the same time this BSP is doing just that right now for five months. You are voting on the laws of the third vote, a series of violation of the Rules of Procedure, and at the same time no one pays attention to the fact that, for 32 years, this Parliament is the only one in which the opposition does not have a single committee chair. Not one! And all this thanks to BSP, Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u53	Mr. Ganev, I will punish you for disrespectful treatment if you continue!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u54	What we see at the moment is a continuation of a policy, consciously made, excuse me very much. And BSP, what did it turn out to be? BSP and Democratic Bulgaria have members in committees several times more than they should because it is proportionate. Why do they have two when they have to have one? That's a lot more than that! This is known and tolerated. And here are called calls, pay attention to the opposition, in the face of rebirth, of GERB and of DPS are the only ones, plus there is such a people, wronged by the members of committees. That's exactly what it is, that's the facts! And you consider it normal to crush the opposition in this way. And for you it is understandable, since GERB have crushed you, in your words, for years and you have not changed anything. Is this also the change that comes to Bulgaria?! That's obviously the change! By voting together with the military technical assistance with the Prime Minister, BSP aligns and works together with them because for years BSP introduces a bill in which the VAT for the small consumer basket should be in times less, if not zero, and when in this Parliament it is imported, and they do not have the valor to bring it in, BSP was the only one who came here, from this tribune, and defended the dropping and non-acceptance of this law. It's BSP, not to say that... Come on, it doesn't matter. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u55	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ganev, watch your rebirth! Don't mess with the BSP! I've only been looking at you for two months at BSP and you're looking at BSP's electorate. This elector won't be able to take it. With the bare talk and the banners coming up, it's not gonna work. We need action, we need legislative initiatives, but not when you're 13, but when you're 134. 13 people can't do it. Thirty-six won't work again. With 84, it's not working again. We need a minimum of 121, it's 134. This is the problem of today's conversation, the majority in question, honourable Members. Is there a ruling majority? Is there 134 votes in this room or not 134? That's where we're going to the committee talk. Mr. Ganev, your parliamentary group has been offered the seat of chairman of the Commission for Youth and Sports. You turned it down. What are you crying about now?! Yes, GERB are damaged, they have been offered a Commission. Maybe it was two or three. Professor Mihaylov said: BSP 4 years with 80 MPs. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is also likely to be damaged. They also had two and three committees in previous parliaments. But you, of all people, are you complaining and saying that someone has wronged you?! On the contrary, you are the most privileged party. You say whatever you want, you talk wherever you want, you take no responsibility for anything, and you end up looking at BSP. Come on, deal with your electorate, your problems! The problems of BSP are to solve the problems of Bulgaria, not to deal with you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Yordanov, for a line? Here you go. Mr. Bojankov, if there is no other group, I will give you the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u58	Dear colleagues, see the person who made the speech, what a good thing said by the colleague. The victims are AGENCY, GERB, DPS and there is such a people and there is a coalition partner. Yeah, apparently, our coworkers look at it like the neighbor from the village who came into town and we have to hide it in the closet so the neighbors don't see it. [[Radio and applause by GERB-SDS.]] And there's one more thing I want to say. In the last parliament, when there were 65 members of parliament, committees were made. No parliamentary group was dissatisfied. Because then, colleagues from the BSP who were crushed by GERB, when the leaders were such a people, first, there was a commission less because here the bloating of a commission is to be able someone to work and take extra money. Secondly, no parliamentary group was dissatisfied. Neither we as leaders had so many presidents, nor the opposition, because back then GERB and DPS were opposition, they were wronged. Nobody! So if you're going to talk about morality, the only parliament that behaved that way was the previous one. Thank you. [[Applause from the "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u59	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Sabrutev asked for a third line to alternate the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, I do not know how who voted yesterday, but I am willing to wager that today you will vote together with GERB and DPS on this point. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u62	Mr. Svilensky, I don't think you understood the purpose of my speech. All this time, since we are even in this Parliament, we have been talking about principles and what as political forces we have made as a commitment to uphold it. You, yesterday, and I have pointed out that, once again, you have failed to comply with what you have undertaken as a commitment to society. You once again voted with the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria yesterday and accepted military technical assistance to Ukraine. Something that's extraordinary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u63	Mr. Ganev, let's focus on the topic of committees!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u64	Please don't interrupt me! I'm doing my douche bag. You have accepted something that you are explaining to the public that you will not allow, and at the same time, this is an extremely stretching concept, which may be that tomorrow your coalition council will decide from all clearly expressed, declared by this tribune of Euro-Atlantics, as you are, and yesterday it has been stated by your representatives that you will send weapons. There's nothing to stop that from happening. So the question is principled. The issue is the principle that from this very platform your party was struggling to reduce VAT for the small consumer basket...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u65	Mr. Ganev, please stick to the subject of the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u66	That's the second time I've had it. Please don't interrupt me! You don't have the right!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u67	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Ganev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u68	I'm making a replica of a speech. So, in terms of what Mr. Sabrutev said, sorry a lot, you are exactly one of those who rely on your Euro-Atlantic partners to bury Bulgaria. Just you and your party. It's not a party, it's a party project. You are the one who voted all that was yesterday, along with the DPS, with GERB, with BSP, with the same people. I'm so sorry, it's one more time! It is you who, today, in violation of even your coalition agreement, will begin to introduce even stricter and stricter the euro. So you are yet to rely on GERB and DPS for the euro. Not yet! You will still work with them because they are your partners, Euro-Atlantic partners. So the DPS will support you once again for the euro, GERB will support you for the euro and then you will be most satisfied. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u69	For the procedure Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u70	Mr. Chairman, I don't think I need to point out to you that you've missed a lot of things, because Mr. Ganev, since he's not really speaking to you. This had nothing to do with the subject of the debate, with the item on the agenda. You still let him, and he attacked a parliamentary group, which a parliamentary group is one of the few consecutive parliamentary groups in Bulgaria that, in terms of social justice, people's incomes, has always defended the same positions. When people vote for us, they know exactly what they're gonna get. And perhaps they are dying of anger in their skin that yesterday this parliamentary group once again held its positions and did what it had promised their voters. And AGE gives the other parliamentary groups purely their own qualities. You think if you're the vaccinated antivacators...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u71	Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u72	...and you talk one thing, and you do another, all groups are like you. It's not like that! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. I let Mr. Ganev finish his story, as did Mr. Bojankov, although both statements were in violation of the Rules. I hope we can get the debate back on the subject. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Bachiysky, are you speaking? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u74	Colleagues, I'm taking this attitude because from this tribune, frankly, I've been listening to some absolute nonsense so far, suggesting that here the division of committees was in some way illegal. I will explain to you what the motives are and how they are distributed so that you can see for yourself that the distribution is mathematically accurate. We have tried to maintain the proportion of political forces in each committee. [[Reply from DPS: "Bravo! "]] I'm explaining to my colleagues at IN why they have two people somewhere, and BSP, for example, had three people. Well, it's just the BSP has a bigger residue. So, really, the ISN have 2.39 in the committees that have 23 people, and BSP have 2.49. So they have a larger remainder, so they take these people. In general you say that you are probably damaged, according to your view, but in these committees we put whole people. We can't cut off, put one chapter in this committee, but two legs in another committee. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Probably, but for better or worse, we don't do this thing. In this regard, if you do your own arithmetic, you will see that in each committee the proportion is preserved, and the exact proportion The Rules say they must be distributed proportionately. In this regard, I ask you, if you want to do the arithmetic of each committee separately, and if you have any difficulties or do not wish to do so, I will provide it to you. I've done it and you'll see that in every single committee there are no deviations from this principle of rounding with the largest remainder. That is, the free number where it does not reach goes to the parliamentary power, which has the largest remainder and everything is done according to this mathematical logic. We may have used some other logic, but when we formed these committees, we thought of them that way. If someone had something in mind that they had to be considered in some other way, maybe they should have said it at the initial stage when we were doing the relevant committees. This was logic, so they were distributed and there were no objections then, there was no other methodology. This is the methodology and this methodology is precisely respected in this case. If you had any objections, you should have proposed some other methodology for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bachiysky. For a replica "Peter Petrov" and then Eva Miteva. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, and I remind you that microphones are quite sensitive.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleague Bachiiski! Of course, with all due respect to you, I will take into account what you say about mathematical accounts. But I would like to point out that they still do not come out, and I would like to remind you that in the four major committees, which are the most important in the National Assembly, the simple mathematical and arithmetic account says that they are benefited by the Democratic Bulgaria, which should have a total of six members, and they have eight. They are also privileged by BSP, which also have more members than they should have. We are mostly wronged, as well as by "There is such a people" especially for these four committees. That is why the relevant proposal has been made by each of the two parliamentary groups, which is why we are aiming at this injustice, which we have heard so far how it did not exist, how it should have been raised as a matter at the outset. Colleague of Bachiiski, from the opposition, unfortunately, we were not called for participation in the negotiations on the compositions of the committees, including for the chair seats, which resulted in the fact that we were given some sort of ultimatum and some kind of committee chairmanship, for which the ruling coalition, to which you are a member, decided that we should be given them, as a result of which you see how these committees work. Some committees are already working hard not to say that they are not working and that there are no meetings, and that is precisely because they are not represented by the ruling coalition. Colleague Bachiiski, this is precisely one of the reasons for making our proposal specifically on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection, because not everything in Parliament is pure and simple mathematics and arithmetic. Of course, everything is also the subject of consensus among all, I repeat, among all political groups, and not just among the ruling parties. So sometimes in the forty-seventh National Assembly, mathematical logic cannot respond directly to the command of a man who is not part of us who said that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u77	Mr. Petrov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u78	...no bill of opposition should pass. No, Bachiiski, it doesn't have to be like this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Your group's time is up, but it's up for extension. Second line "Iva Miteva," Mr. Popov from BSP "third." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u80	Mr. Bachiiski, I would like to point out to you that nowhere in the Rules is it written that we are applying the method of the largest remnant. How did you come up with that?! Maybe you're applying the Election Code by analogy! When the method of the largest remainder is applied, this is explicitly and categorically recorded, and once it is not recorded, we therefore calculate it on this basis. If we look at the numbers really and again if we go back to BSP and there is such a people and none of them passes 2.50 in the Constitutional Commission, so I don't know where these claims come from and how do you judge that you will give to some and not to others. So we do it on the basis of the four largest committees, total 23, multiply it, I said, by the number of committees, multiply it by the number of MPs, divide it by 240, and we get the number that is most true and most accurate, and it has to be applied in this case. So if you want to consider the method of the largest remainder, change the rules, write it down and then consider committee by committee. Thank you. [[Applause from the "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. The third line is Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bachiyski, you have tried here from this tribune of reason to manifest, to explain why the committees are so distributed in relation to the parliamentary group of alumni specifically, but you are doomed to failure. Why? Because especially for the Parliamentary Group of Revival, do not listen to what they are saying, but watch what they are doing. First of all, they've vaccinated the antivacers. Secondly, they are anti-Europeans who, however, participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and when yesterday the European Union anthem was released, they did not, but participated in this Parliamentary Assembly. So your efforts from this tribune to instill intelligence, to have an explanation of what is happening in the Chamber, are pre-destined to failure, because do not listen to what they are saying, but watch what they are doing! They benefit from the good of the European Union and are, at the same time, anti-Europeans. They're vaccinated, but they're antivacators, and they want consensus in the plenary, but they're working for the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u83	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For the coat, Mr. Bachiysky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u84	Mr. Petrov, I ask that you then pay attention to the calculations and see that the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" in each commission are not privileged, but simply have the largest remainder. Regarding my colleague Miteva, I would like to ask about those members who are getting half or partial, i.e. not one person, if we do not apply the largest remainder, how do you propose that we distribute them? The one who has the smallest, should we give him the appropriate position? We need to see, and it's perfectly normal, purely mathematical... [[Noise and lines from GREB-SDS.]] I told you at the beginning and explained the methodology, and the methodology was to keep the proportions in the National Assembly in each committee. That was the logic, that was the methodology, and then I remind you that none of you objected to the appropriate distribution. I can't understand how suddenly after a few months you remembered that the methodology with which you personally approved this distribution and voted it out, you remembered at one point that this methodology wasn't good?! It's unclear to me, but if you have any suggestions for another distribution methodology, we're ready to discuss it. I've told you what the motive has been for this methodology has been applied, and without any problem you will see that there are no deviations from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bachiysky. Perhaps these mathematical calculations will hardly be stuck in the hall. Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u86	Yeah, it's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u87	Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Honourable President, I ask you to make remarks to all Members of the National Assembly who speak from this tribune for an argument that we have agreed to something, and perhaps we should also draw out the transcripts. When the committees were distributed, explicitly from this tribune, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, said that we did not accept any solutions from some malls being imposed on us here without political debate, dialogue and conversation, and there was no dialogue! So anyone claiming that someone was taking something, we object! Then we also objected to someone trying to impose something in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First there are editorial changes to the decisions. In the draft decision submitted by Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs, including 2 both in the letter............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We are voting on this editorial proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 220 MPs: 119, against 94, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The other editorial proposal in the Draft Decision of Peter Petrov and a group of MPs concerns the Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. The proposal is t. Two down. Point 2 reads as follows: 1 of the Commission's Decision to elect the number This is Peter Petrov's editorial proposal. We vote on it. Vote 221 MPs: 170, against 45, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We've run out of editorial proposals with this. We are going to vote on the main text. First of all, I put to the vote the draft decision amending the decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance for changes in the composition of the Commission, deposited by Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs. Vote 221 MPs: 115, against 102, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a re-voting procedure, and before that, I want a 30-minute break on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Comments and shouts by GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u91	Thirty minutes of rest and then we will proceed with the votes. [[Speaks and exclaims: "Eee! "]] [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u92	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. For a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u93	Mr. Chairman, please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" half an hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Another half hour's rest till 11.50. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u95	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. Before that, Mr. Georgiev of the ARGUMENT for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of our parliamentary group, we'd like a 30-minute break. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u97	The rules apply to everyone. I can cut it to a 15-minute break until 12.25. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u98	Colleagues, I think we can continue this session. For the procedure Mr. Yordanov, please come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats if there will be no new requests for rest!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. As the waters, you should know that we have agreed on the problem that has happened here, so I will address our parliamentary group: the proposals we have tabled not to support them at the moment, because a new proposal will be tabled right now. [[(prolonged applause and cheering by GERB-SDS: More!]] where the problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u100	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. [[Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute! I don't know what you did on your long vacations, colleagues, but there's been a lot of fun... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u101	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u102	Just to remind you, we're still in a re-voting procedure. Now, Mr. Bikov, or should we still reschedule then? Well, okay. Give it to me now, though I don't know if it's quite right. Is it the way it's supposed to be, or how?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u103	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u104	I haven't led yet! [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u105	Mr. Chairman, this is for complete creativity, not just for you. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u106	Okay. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u107	Colleagues, Mr. Chairman! It's 12:30. Since 9:00 a.m., we've been dealing with this. 1, with the numbers in the committees that are amongst you, who had more, who was 0.6% person, who was 0.2, can you divide a person...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u108	The manner of conduct, Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u109	It's 12:30, and we haven't done anything yet. The only thing we could have done here is accept at least those proposals that have been proposed. We now understand that importers will vote against their own proposals. When we draw the line, it will turn out that today the Bulgarian Parliament has not worked anything. Nothing! But so nothing and so funny that if this is the return of authority, Mr. Ananiev, the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament in days will be equal to your authority, which is a big problem. Thank you. [[(Extreme laughter, applause and cheering by GERB-SDSS Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u110	You spoke the way you led Mr. Ananiev. Since the procedure is for me, I have time for a few words as an answer. Just to remind you that all these breaks, since they were requested on behalf of parliamentary groups, will be spent... [[Reply: "When? "]] In today's day, today, so parliament has the opportunity to do a lot of things when it comes to hard work. If we reduce the procedures now and concentrate, I understand this concern of Mr. Bikov, we begin to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u111	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u112	Any more procedures? Here you go. What's yours on? [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Okay. No, because you care that Parliament is doing a little work, and you're wasting his time with procedures. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] Here you go. Holidays are being worked out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman. I want to tell you that you are facing a serious risk of becoming chairman of a very stupid show. We've been doing nothing for three hours. You've asked for an hour and a half, and my colleagues and I were under the impression, or at least we hoped that at that time at least one letter from Mr. Zelinski, or for example from the Ambassador of Ukraine in Bulgaria... [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u114	Mr. Nenkov, it's not interesting anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u115	...to send you the division of committees who has how much percentage to save you again your pathetic existence. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] [[Laughter, applause and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u116	Watch your mouth, Mr. Nenkov, I'll take your word for it! What's the procedure for me exactly, besides doing a stupid show, like you said, other than what you're doing right now? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u117	Well, I just want to pay attention... No, it's just that you're the chairman of a very stupid show that people see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u118	Yeah, that stupid show you're doing, Mr. Nenkov. Please take your place and move on to real work. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We are moving on to re-voting the decision to elect the Committee on Budget and Finance. Just to remind you that all the amendments to the texts have been issued, and I will not repeat them. We're just passing committee duty right now. Vote 158 MPs: 42, against 115, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on changes in the composition of the Commission. Vote 160 MPs: 45 against 112 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u119	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u120	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against and perhaps it will be strange for someone, although there has been a statement that we would support a fair distribution of seats in the committees. I voted against, however, because this justice, an honourable majority, was almost four months late. I still remember the first meeting of the Conference of Presidents in which we discussed the allocation of seats, the quotas of the various political parties and the note from the people with greater parliamentary experience that you deprived the opposition for the first time after 32 years of parliamentaryism, even from one seat of president. That you had ideas to throw the presidency of a committee that we voluntarily gave up to show you that the opposition and without leadership can have expertise, have energy, have knowledge and demonstrate it to you on a daily basis, I think you have already understood that. And that's why today, over three hours, we are discussing your internal fights for posts, for pies, for seats, for chairs. Colleagues, you're the only reason you're in this power. If you do not understand it in your own coalition, keep in mind that the people outside know it and this will not be forgiven. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Another negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u123	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u124	Come on in, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I would ask you, Mr President, to present us with the minutes of the meeting of the High Authority, which is sitting more than the Parliament today, but we have never understood what it has decided. Today again, unfortunately, the opposition is saving the ruling majority. With the opposition's intervention, we were able to solve a two-month problem, according to the ICN, on March 10th, that the correct allocation cannot be found. We have heard the damage, which in recognition of everyone has it and especially against the opposition, but we have not heard the opinion how this injustice will be decided because GERB was bad, and you have come as an antipod of GERB. They have been doing this for 12 years, but I will give you a comparison: the opposition had two committees in the previous National Assembly, rather in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, with fewer Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u126	It's not in my power.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u127	Now with more MPs we have zero, colleagues! You're worse than GERB. Let me get this straight. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u128	I do not know if there was a protocol, but the President of the National Assembly has no bearing on the dissemination of protocols from a meeting of the coalition council of the ruling coalition. You'll find out about the decisions in a moment. We are going to vote on the next decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Vote 149 MPs: 130, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are moving on to the next draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. They voted 147 MPs: 119, against 19, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We are moving on to the next projects for solutions from ARCHIVE. Draft decision to amend the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance for changes in the composition of the Commission. Vote 153 MPs: 34 against 116 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u129	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u130	Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for a procedure, but you need to specify what procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In view of the outcome of the current vote on the Committee on Budget and Finance and given that the accompanying next proposal, which should be voted on - one of the next two proposals to be voted on - is to release Iskra Mihailova from the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society - we believe that this decision no longer has the motivation and reasons to be taken, as we have seen that during the two holidays, another political bargaining has been made in the ruling coalition, and otherwise this proposal cannot be accepted. That is why I am making an explicit procedure that I am withdrawing one of the two proposals that should be voted on, namely the proposal for the release of the People's Representative Iskra Mihailova as a member of the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. I withdraw this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u132	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You're entitled to that. Then we move on to the next draft decision amending a decision to elect the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Importers are Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 38, against 116, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. With this, this item has been exhausted. On the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose a new item. 9 on the agenda of the National Assembly to be everything according to the rules, namely, please distribute the draft decision. New t. The draft decision to amend the decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance for changes in the composition of the Commission and the draft decision to amend the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and on changes in the composition of the Commission. Please, vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u133	What do you mean by that? Nine?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u134	New t. 9, with the rest being renumbered, which is now turning on. Specifies: new item. 9, and the rest from 9 to 17 shall be renumbered from 10 to 18 respectively. Vote 152 MPs: 137, against 12, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please present the projects. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 84, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs (SG. No. 111 of 2021) and for changes in the composition of the committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the Election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs ( SG No. 111 of 2021) The number 2. There is such a people who choose... for Member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Project! DECISION amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance (GB, No. 111 of 2021) and for changes in the composition of the committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 in relation to Art. 18, para. 1 sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance ( SG No. 111 of 2021) the number ssq.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.q.h. And the words of the Parliamentary Group "There is such a people" are replaced by "3" by the Parliamentary Group "There is such a people." 2. There is such a people who choose... for Member of the Budget and Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u136	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. I am opening a discussion on the proposed projects. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I start from there that it is true that you have the opportunity to offer everything on the agenda, Mr President, but somehow................................. two projects for a solution.... a symbol of justice. Of course, in quotes. Colleagues, as much as you may have the power of the majority to do whatever you choose, I do not find it fair that a parliamentary group consisting of 25 MPs should have three MPs in one of the leading committees of the National Assembly, but for example a parliamentary group with 59 MPs to have five. This is the return of your justice, identical to the return of your parliamentaryism, a harsh violation of parliamentary practice, for which people with history and experience will tell you that 32 years no one has dared to do against the Rules, against political pluralism, against the Constitution and the vote of citizens. Because should I explain again that the number of parliamentary groups is an expression of the vote of Bulgarian citizens? And if enough people have voted for a group to be 67 or 59, or 25, or 13, or no matter how many, these representatives of those who voted for them must have their numerical and meaningful reflection in the authorities of the parliamentary power. I'm under the impression that all of this is irrelevant to you. It doesn't matter from day one, because you're the Change. Yeah, you're the Change, there's no Constitution. Since day one, your Prime Minister has still violated it as a minister. Consequences then you violate with various not on the edge of the law, but beyond the law and Constitution decisions. Should I remind you of the choice of the KEWRC you changed the law in one day so that you could place one of your men against the requirements of the law. And soon, the Constitutional Court hopes to rule. The API decision is totally unconstitutional. Let me inform you that yesterday the Constitutional Court has formed Case No. 10 of 2022 and this will prove unconstitutional. Anything else! You're just imagining Parliament's work in some different way, a changed way, bringing Parliamentism back all of a sudden. Colleagues, do you realize that everything that happens in this House has an impact on parliamentary history, and ever forward in time these precedents will necessarily be used. They will be used as arguments for other precedents and your three-time vote on the same solution, and putting a hell of a lot of suggestions, just to satisfy the desire of a coalition partner. Do you realize that? Colleagues, you break the institutions, you break the rule of law, you break the parliamentary system. Realize it while it's time, because whether tomorrow or whenever, you will not be there, you will really not be there, but here in the transcripts of the National Assembly and in the Library of the National Assembly will be the shameful decisions that you have voted on. And the most dangerous thing is that some other ones, if they ever appear out of the blue like you, will refer to these shameful decisions. It comes to me to say the word disgrace, not in that sense, and this is a bottom, a parliamentary disgrace, which you allow yourself to do. Really. [[Applause GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Atanasova, yes, justice has been achieved today with regard to.. There is such a people. Yes, justice has not been achieved with regard to the groups, which I said today.................................................................................................. That is why I from this tribune would like to say categorically that we will insist on a working group, that we want to sit down and really review all the committees to really see the ratio, really see who is favored and who is wronged and in which committees. [[crowd cheering,]] Because here you have not been rights in relation to the big committees, GERB has received what needs to be received, even a little overvalued. You have in all committees not five, but six MPs. So once again, fellow Members, please, we made a commitment at the beginning of the meeting to sit down and really carefully review the compositions of the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Second line, Mr. Nenkov. Is there a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Atanasova, unfortunately, my understanding is that you have wasted some plenary time because you have talked about how the Constitution should be respected, how the Rules should be respected, how the history of this Parliament should be respected, in this House. You talked about every decision, every break in the Rules in the future will be used by each next National Assembly to legitimize its decisions. And in fact, this is how we create a bad practice and we cannot expect, of course, people to respect this institution, because people are not stupid and see when some MPs only care about their own survival and who will be chairman of what committee or who will be a member of which committee. But do you know why? Because somehow after the last few months or more than a year, maybe a year, you've had an understanding that when you're the Change, everything is allowed. You're allowed to do anything! You broke the Constitution, but you say, "Ama, I feel Bulgarian." Okay, okay. We say: The state has no way of abdicating from its powers, the executive power to make decisions important for, for example, a road sector, but you say: "No, we in Parliament will make such a decision. "You are the Change, colleagues, and everything is allowed, but no, you are not allowed! And it is not a coincidence that it is good to recall some facts - why did it come to today's ridiculous debate? That's why I just said we're about to turn into a stupid show. Because, in fact, today's debate, colleagues, and Mrs. Atanasova, it is nice to recall that Mr. Karimanski was not elected head of BNB and even then the IHN suddenly saw the injustice in the division of the committees and tabled this decision. This is actually the reason why we have lost more than four hours of plenary time to deal with coalition turmoil. And really, unfortunately, it would be funny if it wasn't sad, but we're really turning into a very naughty show, I don't know how else to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u142	Third line, Mr. Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u143	Mr. Chairman, with great regret for me, I have to agree with some of the things Mrs. Valcheva said, even though I cannot do it with her unique loud tone, I will try.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u144	Mr. Mihnev, everyone has a unique voice. Some people like it, some people don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u145	I'll try. It is a disgrace that the largest opposition party, then ruling for 12 years, knows how the independent Constitutional Court will be proclaimed in a case in which his decision has not yet come out. It is a disgrace that those who have served 12 years and appointed constitutional judges seem to be ordering them to decide. I can't help but worry where they got this information, this disgraceful information? [[(Noise, laughter in GERB-SDS, shouts: Where's your GERB T-shirt?]] I ask myself, does this have anything to do with the fact that the father of the pre-dereplicator is in the Constitutional Court of the Pre-dereplicating Member of GERB. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]] It's a joke.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u146	Where do you get these? We throw them out and you pick them up?............................................... [[Applause to the MPs of the People's Party Continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u147	And now I will lock up the decisions that are clearly taken by the Constitutional Court are taken by a party organization in GERB, which is not known for many people, but I will tell you what its name is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] For the doppelganger, Mrs. Atanasova. At least it's fun in the gym at times. Colleagues, let's hear from the chairman of your group. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I can't help but start with an answer in the back of the one who contributed the most to this stupid show Mr. Mihnev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Mihnev, you certainly don't know what the word disgrace means. If you knew, you would not have allowed yourself to claim that the father of my colleague Alexander Nenkov is a constitutional judge because he is not, Mr. Mihnev! And yes, it is a disgrace that you speak lies from this parliamentary tribune. Do you know what else is a disgrace, perhaps personal to you, for example, that during those 12 years in which you managed GERB, you were wearing a T-shirt with GERB, Mr. Mihnev! Don't leave the room. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] However, this is now a greater disgrace to us, and I say it with regret. But congratulations to the Change such a MP from your parliamentary group. So much for what was said by the greatest disgrace.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u150	Mrs. Atanasova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u151	To the greatest disgrace, I mean. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u152	For the sake of yes, that's different now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u153	Mrs. Miteva, you know, I would kind of agree with you that there is a need for dialogue and debate again. I would agree on the part that in four months' time, the majority in charge found out that there was opposition and it was wronged. We were also here on 3 December, and then we told you that we are here and we represent Bulgarian citizens. However, four months of analysis and continuing for such a simple arithmetic seems unacceptable to me. Isn't your coalition the A-team? He can't figure out how many committees are assigned to the opposition, how many to the government? In fact, now your confusions, which at the Coalition Council of 20,00 hours in the Council of Ministers cannot be resolved, are being carried to plenary. Unfortunately, the price of all this pays the Bulgarian taxpayer, because he pays the salary to all those who are on holiday and those who were on holiday 10 days, when important problems for Bulgaria stand on the agenda, and those who rested today for an hour and a half because of such a simple solution. And finally, for justice. I'm done. I think Kant said that when justice is lost, human life is irrelevant. Stand up for her! He, human life, has long been irrelevant, judging by the final decisions of this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Nenkov, you for a personal explanation, I presume? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I take the procedure for personal explanation with the clear awareness that very difficult Mr. Mihnev can affect me personally, but there is no other way to answer it. It's too bad you came out. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] What's the problem? Mr. Mihnev had been nicely forbidden to speak after the SUV thing. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Now it seems that the spirit from the bottle has been lost again, and I see that in the last few days it is gaining momentum and will have to call again, colleagues, and stop it. Because he's proof of what we've been talking about your incompetence. I'm not talking about my father. I'm not talking about whether he's a constitutional judge, I'm talking about how he was elected to the Constitutional Court at all, but that's a very distant subject, right, you don't read about these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u156	Mr. Nenkov, don't give grades, say it yourself is a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u157	No, no, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u158	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u159	I want to answer Mr. Mihnev and you will let me finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u160	I'll leave you to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u161	Now I didn't mention his parents, did I?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u162	I'm just pointing you in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u163	Yeah, okay. It's about incompetence. You can't even speak such nonsense on this stage. I apologize! I don't know how else to qualify what he said! Imagine now the Court of Justice and those judges who should be people with a very large, huge experience in the years back, proven professionals and not talking about my father, but about everyone else and now going out and watching on TV how one explains how GERB appointed constitutional judges. Guys, really, have some measure! Get these people back, they're just hurting! Again I say to you, that you have called yourselves Change does not give you any right to do as you wish. You have no right! Understand it! That's why your ratings are going down, that's why you're going down in the next election, and you're going down hard! That's why you're wondering how to save your coalition, because you're afraid of the punishment people will give you. They see it, they're not blind, colleagues! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u164	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Cholakov, what about you? For a statement, okay. [[Heckling]] Okay, two speeches. Tsoncho Ganev, come in for a speech, let's take turns with the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u165	Mr. Chairman, we can't help but notice what was going on for almost three hours. The opposition and part of the ruling in the face of the ICN explained clearly, precisely and categorically that the ruling in the face of the BSP and the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) have immeasurably members of committees and should not continue this because it is not correct not to the parliamentary groups, but to the voters. Because we are witnessing a mass boycotting of the committees, precisely from the ruling coalition. Almost three hours of parliamentary time. Here came representatives of the ITN and explained exactly and clearly how Mr. Karimanski drew some figures, no one could refute it if they were and that they were not correct, on the contrary they almost confirmed it, but yet the BSP was fiercely defending what was there - Democratic Bulgaria. We keep the Change quiet. At one point, what you all saw happened was a series of breaks, and it was done this, which is why politics, a party, a politician are dirty words in Bulgarian society. People despise them precisely because of unprincipled contracts in couloirs, in private offices or in buildings. That's what happened. This is the truth, and it weighs heavily that they have bent and made arrangements to.. There is such a people..................... that there is such a people...... Those are the facts! Both in their parliamentary group and in all parliamentary groups there are honest people and there is never anything under the common denominator of being thieves and crooks, and in their group there are honest people. I am sure that some of them deep down, and not even that deep down, but apparently regret what their leadership has done to them without need once again. Those are the facts. As the wise Bulgarian people said, good people are not some honest ones. This is what is happening, and this is what you are seeing at the moment - in vain promises, blurrings, here explaining how we are going to make another commission, type of President Hristo Ivanov, for months not sitting intentionally and purposefully, but just putting on the title of President, probably the next one, the next one, and perhaps the New Year, if there is this Parliament, you will also create such a pre-dead committee so that there is no justice. What did you really do, though? You've increased the members of the committees, you've accepted this as quite normal, although two hours ago it's exactly the kind of people that have explained, there's no such people, I apologize, the other part of the government has explained that it's immoral, unfair and shouldn't be done, the proportions are spoiled. Now the government has accepted this as normal. And what did they do? They kept the number of wrong, not to say illegally the members of.. There is such a people....... there is such a people............. there is such a people................................. there is such a people.....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u166	Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u167	... Bulgaria. That's right. [[Radio.]] And the BSP numbers that shouldn't be like that either. Is that your change? Rather not, that's not change. Is that your difference with GERB? 12 years here you tear your shirts, explain how bad GERB are and you will change. You're not changing anything. You're violating the Constitution, let alone some rulebook, once again. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u168	That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Because Mrs Miteva and colleagues from the ruling majority have announced that they want to make working groups to review committees, to review the chair, I will say something that I was going to say the first time the committees were voted here. Then I gave up because I didn't see the point. Firstly, that the opposition should have committee chairmen and participate in the committees at all, although it does not have a majority, is designed to be held accountable. It is not invented to bear any common responsibility, because Parliament's decisions come with the press of parliament, with everyone who is here in this Chamber, regardless of which political power it is from, whether it is from the ruling majority or the opposition. That's the whole point of a common responsibility. However, I found no point in explaining it to you then, because no one would understand me, although this is a simple rule of parliamentaryism and politics at all. The ruling majority does so because it understands that it needs common responsibility. It does not do so because it is merciful, because it is noble, but because there is a benefit to it four months after you made these decisions, where everyone should have become chairman of a committee, you remembered and started calling it unfairly that the opposition had no chairmen of committees. I'll tell you it's not unfair, it's shortsighted, and from your point of view. And now, when you start, even though you don't understand it very much, but feeling it is to your detriment that you are left in a very complicated situation to be responsible for things you can't make decisions about, you are now starting to say that you may need to bring back the opposition. Here, however, the question is whether the opposition will want to be responsible with you for whatever it is. And this issue, at least in our parliamentary group, will be very seriously discussed. Because at this moment I am personally not convinced that we have some need to bear with you responsibility for things that are even less or at all involved in any decisions. And at your meeting, which lasted an hour and a half in working hours here, we don't know what you were negotiating and what you were doing about what to participate in and legitimize such a thing. You came with one request that you will include the A-team of Bulgaria. Yesterday the negotiating colleague Mr. Mihnev, who, by the way, is Vice-President of the Foreign Commission, presented the decision on Ukraine. Imagine that there are three former foreign ministers in the Foreign Commission. Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Mitev, Mrs. Zaharieva. With all due respect to all colleagues, I am sorry, but I can hardly even think of the name of the Chairman of the Foreign Commission, and for the Vice-President, Mr. Mihnev, I just remember because I cannot forget him. [[Radio.]] Is this the way to bear responsibility in a very complicated and difficult situation? I remember some talks downstairs about the international delegations, and I tried to explain to you, in PACE, in the OSCE, these are important delegations, there are parties here that have European families, some of you do not, because they are new parties and have not chosen and so on. We have serious positions in the EPP, our colleagues from the DPS have co-chairs in the Liberals, BSP has a chairman of the Party of European Socialists. I said to you then: "Abe, make PACE and the OSCE people who have real influence in the European Union have links there. "In the situation with Macedonia, then the war in Ukraine had not started, there are people who can help. They said, "No, that's what we agreed. " And they made some people who are not bad in themselves, but are not the A-team in this situation. Now, and that concludes, as an interim decision, you propose that we increase the committees in which IHN wants to have a little more representatives. Let's raise them up. They're already 24 committees. Let's make them 90 committees. Let's each be the chairman of some committee. Let's all have everything. But that won't solve our problem, no matter how hard you try to make new rules and learn from at least some of your mistakes. You remember how the quorum was changed at the beginning, then the quorum came back, three times voted, then this was canceled. Changing the rules in parliament must make sense. And now this enlargement of the Commission does not make any sense because it will not solve the problem. The proportion is changing. And 83 people to become this Commission is mathematics, but it's not just mathematics! And the problem, believe me, because the debate has gone into some mathematical calculations here, it's not mathematical, it's political, and I think it's educational, because it's a result of political illiterateness, not something else! And it is not only the parliament that corrupts the whole society that is happening here today and which is happening in the last six months! I don't think you have the potential to change that trend. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u171	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? For a line, Mr. Ananiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bikov, you can't think of the names of our colleagues. We can't forget the Zulus you created in the last department. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And it's not important that you know someone's name, it's important that they do their job, because of those of your people we know their names here, we know what they've done. When you talk about responsibility, you have to think about what you've done in the last five years for a full term and when someone will finally take that responsibility, because there is one person who releases them after the 24th hour, but soon, when they leave, there is no one to let them go. It is a pity that you claim to be a member of parliament, and you do not know that when a decision is presented, it is presented by an importer. There is no way to introduce Mr. Vigenin, Mrs. Zaharieva or Mr. Mitov. An importer introduces himself as it is written simply, but it should be read, not only out and the alabalism to treat him in full force. By the way, since there was an attempt in your previous statement to insult me about the authority of the National Assembly, you should think very, very seriously: when did the authority of the National Assembly fall to the lowest level? Forty-four, which spent its entire term, fell to the lowest possible trust in the country!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u173	Colleagues, let's get back to the project discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u174	So think about these things before you go out and listen to another alabalism. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u175	Is there a second line for Thomas Bikov? Halil Letifov. Here you go, Mr. Letifov. Please, fellow Members, let the speeches be on the draft decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bikov, I'm going to have a very short line for you. You're also trying to explain, in Mr. Ananiev's words, to speak alabalistics. But he said something very important, and I suggest you take it from him. The next Attorney General will say what he will do, it will not be independent power, because this one releases in his words, the other one will not. We have a verdict here. So there will be no independent power, so be for democracy. Actually, Mr. Bikov, you're holding them together.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u177	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank you for the clarification of Mr. Ananiev that Mr. Mihnev is an importer of yesterday's position, which is the position of the Bulgarian state - the only one on the issue with Ukraine, and it is good for the media to know that. The importer and author of this position is Mr. Mihnev, who just spoke here. That's where we brought her! And just so you know, that's not good at all. Nothing against the coworker on his own, but it's not serious. Totally frivolous. And I believe he's really the author of this position, because she's nothing special, sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u179	You voted for this position!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u180	No offense, please, colleagues. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u181	Twenty-four hours, you say, here and to Mr. Letifov. Mr. Ananiev, I will tell you: in addition to the Attorney General, you must close the court, because the court said that your arrest ordered by your Prime Minister, made by your Minister of Interior, is illegal and the order is illiterately written! That's what it says in the court's ruling. Now, go, find this judge or judge who wrote it, arrest her too, because it suits you. People like you, who at the moment, thank God, in the framework of democracy seem rather ridiculous, in previous times have done such things that you dream of. Thank God you can't do them right now. And as you can see, thanks to these wise decisions of Mr. Kiril Petkov, the Change is now a second political force. Trust me, next time it'll be third in the next study, if not fourth. We're responsible because you talked about responsibility, we have each other. We are in elections, there is political responsibility.. You too. Whether you know it or not, it doesn't matter. Whether you know how to carry a political responsibility or how not to wear it also does not matter. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] But I suggest you, especially you, stop with the moral pathos. You've said it well five years is correct, 12 is not, 12 is not because you are part of these 12 years. By the way, Mr. Hristo Ivanov, resigning as Justice Minister, resigned from the government and Mr. Atanasov resigned as Head of the Internal Commission and Mr. Grozdan Karadjov resigned as Head of the Transport Commission, you took the place of Mr. Karadjov and were elected by the Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. These people. And you stayed till the last day! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u182	Where were you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u183	I was a councilman at the Council of Ministers. I was there. Where I am today, even then I was not a member of GERB I am now a member of GERB. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Robber this pathos a little bit. And last but not least, I hope that in the next parliament, where you will not be a member of parliament, you will not roll again in the corridors. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u184	Mr. Bikov, please. Rolling is not a fact, it's an insult. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Wait a minute. I didn't hear Mr. Bikov's initial statement, but there was nothing on the drafts of decisions in the subsequent lines and the duplicate! Nothing! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Maybe I didn't hear it, but I made it clear. From then on, there was nothing on the draft decisions. Colleagues, go back to them, less than even political slogans are not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u185	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u186	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u187	Now, procedure... [[Heckling]] Wait a minute, first the procedure, then the statement. For speech were signed Alexander Ivanov, Mustafa Karadayi, Radomir Cholakov. Peter Petrov is for speaking? So, I'm recording Peter Petrov for a statement. Anything else to say?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u188	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u189	Yeah, don't worry, the procedures will come. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u190	The procedure is before the speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u191	It's also a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here and colleagues from GERB half an hour ago, and everyone took seriously and suddenly about how the National Assembly should work. Now I address you, Mr. Chairman, and to the previous one who led the meeting, you keep repeating that we have to go back to the specific topics, but here we are listening to family memories, the memories of an advisor. Is that what we're doing right now? We're just continuing to do the same thing, which means the strategy here... Where's Mrs. Belobradova? It's a great Facebook post, isn't it? We continue with the rods in the wheel of parliament.. constantly someone tells memories, one says what responsibility it will bear here! Let's stop all this! If someone can't stop it, stop it! Otherwise, we'll stay here until 6:00 and listen to this guy or that guy's memories. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u193	Thank you. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Professor, until 3:15, at least we're limited to the moment. I really hope such discussions are possible because Mr. Bikov and Mr. Ananiev are former partners, and this contributes [[Laughter]] , in a formation that is not in parliament at all. Mr. Sabrutev, please come in for a procedure. Mr. Ivanov, are you asking for a procedure or for your statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u194	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u195	I've written you down the next one to speak is you, but there are two procedures and we come to the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I would like to suggest that a punishment be imposed on Mr. Bikoff for the extremely disgusting insult he has inflicted on a representative of the National Assembly. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I would like to tell Mr. Bikov the following thing in the next election is a better chance that he is not in the National Assembly than the fellow Member in question. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u197	Thank you. Mr. Ananiev, also for procedure. And Mrs. Atanasova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I have an appeal to you when someone wants a personal explanation, to give them this opportunity because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u199	I didn't hear you want a personal explanation. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u200	I'm pretty loud in general. The point is, when a personal explanation is asked and when lies are told in the back, there is no other way to respond than to use a procedure. Since once again the GERB uses this support for the implementation of the steps of the National Assembly....when people who are fighting for civil rights were thrown out of Tsveta Karayancheva....your frame, who were in peaceful protest, were thrown out in violation of the law....you cannot go out and give such examples here instead of being ashamed and humble! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u201	Thank you. Mr. Ananiev, I admit I didn't understand that you wanted a personal explanation. I thought you wanted a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u202	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u203	Mrs. Atanasova is ahead of you unless she gives up on you. He's retreating. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u204	Mr. Chairman, I apologize if I've crossed some lines. I don't know if it's that brutal. Mr. Ananiev himself said that he wasn't lying there. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u205	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u206	That's what he said! I'm sorry if that offends you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u207	No, you're not excused. Let's stop talking like this, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u208	Okay. Once again, I apologize rather to the audience and to the viewers for really not having today's debate at the level it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u209	Are there any other procedures? From Venko Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing how Mr. Bikov in five minutes makes two insults to a Member of the National Assembly. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u211	Alexander Ivanov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let's get back to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u214	And thank you to the House. I hope that our colleagues in the ruling majority realise what we are voting on and why today's plenary day is now 13.30 and we are about at the starting point. Because, colleagues, in the morning, there were drafts of decisions that colleagues from "There is such a people" justified and after analysis, really correct, had a proposal on changes in the compositions of the committees. I'd like to thank Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Karimansky for introducing us to these analyses. However, these analyses were also known in the formation of parliamentary committees three months ago. For one reason or another, they have decided today as an item on the agenda to have this exchange in the committees, in order to introduce justice to some of the committees in Parliament to be reduced in composition, I think it was from the "Democratic Bulgaria" or other from the majority responsible to remove some members as a number and to increase the number of representatives of the "There is such a people" in the relevant committees. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I respect the handling of correct data and management decisions based on analysis. When the analyses are correctly done, they are a solid foundation for something constructive. However, what happened within the day, colleagues, and all Bulgarian citizens who are interested in Parliament and our plenary day, let's say what happened. On the basis of the good analyses of the colleagues from the "There are such people" there were proposals which, notice, were adopted in the first vote and then by the ruling majority, I cannot guess who it is, not to insult the colleague or to accuse someone else, one break is requested. And fair decisions, colleagues, after three breaks, an hour and a half pause... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u215	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After an hour and a half of break, the analysis appears to have evaporated. Justice has gone somewhere in the nothingness and now the decision that is being put to the vote forgets the previous justice, it is forgotten that in the big committees, the one on Legal Affairs and the one on Budget and Finance must be reduced capacity by representatives of the ruling majority and put in members of the So, we quickly forgot justice when it comes to posts. Because, guys, that's the whole point. And now to return, colleagues, to the ruling coalition how it came to power and for five months now we have heard that large-scale analyses are being done in the country, in the functioning of individual government units and institutions, how decisions will be made based on these analyses. Well, colleagues, today in this House, this is exactly what the ruling majority has proved to us, how they will make decisions. An analysis is being made, I stress, correct, I was convinced, and therefore I supported in the first vote the initial proposals made by my colleagues from the "There is such a people" and I will say them by name to give them even an opportunity to come out and give me the reply of Mrs. Miteva and Mrs. Karimanski. Absolutely correct analysis. But why did we suddenly forget them after an hour and a half getting used to them in rooms?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u217	Because there are behind-the-scenes arrangements!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u218	Looks like he's got some behind-the-scenes arrangements, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u219	Please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u220	Apparently, there's some sort of back-and-forth arrangement. And here the whole bubble of analysis and decision-making based analysis burst. Therefore, I will not support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u221	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines for Alexander Ivanov? Honest Mitev, come in. Who else has a line? Alexander Nenkov for the second line. [[Noise and lines.]] No shouting from the place!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, two of yours. One is that we're delaying time and that there was an hour and fifteen minutes of rest. GERB-SDS Parliamentary Group is currently using 80% of its time to make speeches on these points, which they believe we are delaying time, and you are already using 80% of your time, and I suppose you will use all of it, so you are contributing to the slowing of time. Point one. Point two. You say there is no justice. That's not true. There's been a change. It is not the one that was originally asked to remove one representative of the DB and add to the ICN, but simply increase to compensate for the ICN. So on these two hypotheses, I think you're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u223	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Nenkov for a second line. Is there a third line? I can't see yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u224	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ivanov, you, colleague, didn't understand anything. All these pompous statements in the morning about justice, analysis, about how the committees should be distributed, five months later, after starting this parliament, it was simply because here the IHN wanted to show muscles because they simply did not choose their candidate for BNB. I just said that. And this is not about justice at all! Mr. Ivanov, I'll tell you one more thing. I am convinced that all these things, starting from Iva Miteva, Mr. Hristo Ivanov, BSP colleagues also, who spoke, colleagues from the DPS, but they have no relation, as they are opposition, will not actually lead to the one in quotes a craved change for justice that was put into our heads this morning. And neither will any task force be made, and even if it is done, it will not come to any change! The problem of IHN has been solved. The two representatives entered the committees, and we close the issue. And we're closing the subject! On the bright side, there are still shorthands. The good thing is that these statements are recorded and one day we will remember it. We'll remember it! Therefore, Mr. Ivanov, do not hope for this justice you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u225	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u226	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members replicating! Mr. Nenkov, I sincerely believed in the analysis that was done. And to stress again, my work before parliament, and probably after it, will be related to handling numerical data, analysis, and I trust them. Unfortunately, however, colleagues obviously do not. Apparently, they made some behind-the-scenes arrangements, got together in some office, and they lost parliamentary time. I'm moving on to the next replicator, Mr. Mitev. We use the GERB-SDS Group to use the parliamentary time that is in the Rules of the National Assembly and that is why it is given to each parliamentary group in relation to the burden of the MPs that are present in Parliament. And we're talking at your point, you brought it in. We didn't score it! Today's points have been tabled by the ruling majority. And we, as opposition, as far as I understand from you, have no right to speak? [[Noise and lines.]] We have time, and I think we're making use of it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u227	Not from where I'm standing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u228	...by the regulations. Look, colleagues, you've turned the National Assembly into a flea market. You've turned it into a flea market, with great regret I say, and with a desire to see a little bit of what you're doing and repair yourself. I think that such interruptions of the work of the National Assembly, uninformed meetings to satisfy the desire of one or another of the coalition partners, are now becoming the daily lives of this Parliament and of this government. You have only redeployed yourself today, so to speak, apparently you fought internally, at least not from the stand of the National Assembly, but you hid in some office, better than a mall, for redistribution of influence in the National Assembly. That's what you did, Mr. Mitev. Nothing else. Nothing less. I say again, there was an analysis, however, which we realized remains somewhere in the future to make a commission, to re-examine the burden of individual parliamentary groups in the committees. And you know that's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u229	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Karadayi for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are multiple crises in the country. There's a war going on in the neighbors. There are a lot of concerns in people, in people. We politicians are responsible for solving people's problems and creating better living conditions for people. Let's create conditions for a better tomorrow. In particular, the responsibility of the government to solve people's problems is greater. But today, from 9:00 until now, what do we do?! What problems of Bulgarian citizens have we solved today? Where are you going and what's the picture? From this point of view, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will try at least to draw a product from today's debate from which to at least try to learn a lesson. Because Mr. Bikov and Mr. Ananiev at first glance opposed, but in the end they were the same. And that is what you said, Mr President, and I quote: "This is because maybe they were from the same party." Mr. Biekov was right about what he said: "You've been focusing for the last four years, but you're missing to talk about the 12." Yeah, it's been like this for the last 12 years. We have said many times from this tribune that opposition, hatred, arrogance and aggression are not a good policy model. By denying this model you, colleagues from the new parties, have come to the National Assembly, entered the field of politics, today you are ruling and have the primary responsibility for solving people's problems. You have said that you are continuing the change, and you are absolutely trying to suggest that the continuation of the change in some other direction is different from the worse direction. Yes, indeed, you are continuing that change that came 12 years ago, and in the toolkit of opposition, hatred, arrogance and aggression you have added conceit and self-confidence. And you keep changing from bad to worse. Mr. Mihailov, Professor Mihailov said: "Yes, he continues what you denied, only in his worse form. You're continuing the change in the way we've seen it for the past 12 years. It doesn't matter what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in the laws of the country, in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, the important thing is to be part of the change here I already say it in quotes, everything is allowed and violated the Constitution, and the laws of the country. It goes on what you denied. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, our call is to find this justice in fulfilling the Constitution and the laws of the country. This justice to find it in the responsibility that we bear today in front of Bulgarian citizens. In all these crises, which have been brought to the back of the Bulgarian citizens, to find that justice in the dialogue in the political dialogue, even with the opposition, in search of finding solutions to solve the crises, to solve the problems of the Bulgarian citizens. In this direction, we must seek justice. However, as far as justice has been demonstrated here on the model before the holidays, there has been a huge injustice because some of the parliamentary groups have been harmed, such as GERB, DPS, rebirth and there is such a people, and after the holidays there is no such injustice, because justice has been served when GERB, DPS and rebirth are damaged. By the way, it doesn't matter which parliamentary groups are wronged. The important thing is that justice is done. This model of politics you denied. That was your election campaign, too, but your behavior here in this room and your behaviour in power are not responding to that. That is why my call is, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to bear our responsibility, to make sure that with our actions we restore normality in the National Assembly, to restore normality in policy making, to restore normality in general. To restore democracy, but not with this model of justice that we see today, or with rematchism. To restore democracy, but with democratic instruments, not with rematchism and ultimately restore statehood. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u231	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Are there any lines to Mr. Karadaye's statement? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u232	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Karadayi, I can really congratulate you on your call, as well as yesterday for the editing of Mr. Tsonev, who was accepted by the people's representation, in its crucial part. What I tried to say this morning and you have taken the liberty of quoting me, I think it was appropriate that your quoting should not continue in a direction in which both sides have their bad day. Agree to go out on the stand and to constantly talk about how inexperienced those who are running the country at the moment and how wrong, not to say uglier words, try to do or do, this is also an element of opposition. Although your parliamentary group very rarely crosses the line of normal dialogue, this is what we are trying as a coalition. But I would like to address those who have brought the country to this situation and remind them that they have the primary responsibility for this, indeed, quite different political forces, to try to restore normality in the country now. I allow myself to wish them success and those who want to be part of the success to participate in this case. Thank you, Madam President. [[(Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u233	Here's a line for you, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Madam President! In your reply to you, I would like you to remind the majority and the people's representation that it is not a sin to be inexperienced on the contrary, there is always a need for new MPs to have heirs in order for parliamentaryism to live. But what does it mean to have normality and parliamentaryism and to have him alive? The mantras with which power was: everything will be public, everything will be done in front of society, everything will be done in front of the plenary. To this day, everything is in the dark, including this decision that we are discussing today, and it is in the dark. We requested a protocol from the meeting of the High Authority, no such was presented to find out who was fighting with whom and what was the bargain there to be in the light to be clear to the Bulgarian society. Being inexperienced is not a sin, but lying to the Bulgarian people and your voters is already a sin. Promise you'll be transparent and be in the dark like you're in the Ministry of Finance. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u235	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Is there a third line? Mr. Karadaye, will you do the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mikhailov, thank you for the line. According to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, youth or inexperience have never been a vice. On the contrary, for us in policy making usually, and can be traced back in time in our various parliamentary groups, there has always been a priority given to young people to be here in this room together with experienced politicians, so that there can be experienced politicians in this room tomorrow, when today's experienced ones will no longer be in this room. This has been an asset to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, so we do not reproach the new ones in this Chamber for either youth or inexperience. But for the model of behavior and the way of making policy in this room, everyone is the experienced and the inexperienced and the younger and not so young are subject to criticism, because here the more important element is the desire to gain experience, however with a clear model. The model must be democracy, statehood and normality if I have managed to respond to you, Mr. Letifov. As far as normality, statehood and democracy are concerned, we have given definitions and content to these concepts. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u237	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Radomir Cholakov and Petar Petrov are listed for speech to alternate the groups. Let's, first of all, Mr. Petrov, come in. Mr. Cholakov, you will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u238	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to go back a little bit to Mr. Ganev's statement. Mr. Ganev, while we are waiting for the honest and principled people of "There is such a people" to eventually leave the group and de facto join us, we should talk about the substance of the two proposals that were presented to us earlier today. First of all, I would like to address the four importers - these are the presidents of the four parliamentary groups, from the ruling coalition. I see, honourable Members, that in the two uniform proposals you have already adopted the idea of aging, which we have announced earlier today to increase the total number of the two, I can say the most important committees. When ARRANGEMENT suggests that the total number becomes 24, without touching the group distribution inside, then we see that it is not fair. When it is offered by a ruling coalition after one-hour arrangements, it is now an expression of justice. But the thing that really amazes me is this is what I'm going to consider your motives. I apologize for reading.. I do not do it from this tribune, but since we had just been served each of these two solutions, I had barely met them. I respect the reasons: The necessity of this change is proven and justified and an example of the fact that the parliamentary group of a party is represented by one representative in the Commission, and the group consists of 13 MPs, and the parliamentary group of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Forgive me, gentlemen and ladies of importers, but for me it is an expression of the highest political hypocrisy and cynicism to motivate this so-called fair proposal on two with the damage of a party of rebirth. This is what I cannot understand how you could write such motives to put in some form the result of your political arrangements in the last two hours. Motivating them by the fact that a party is damaged?! So how do you want us to support you on this proposal for these two committees? By the fact that we've been wronged since we got back?! Please! How can that be? I understand that you were in a hurry to write it and submit it to this uniform proposal for both committees, but please don't involve us in your coalition bargaining. I would like to turn to the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" and sincerely congratulate them because with what they did with one shot they killed two birds, figuratively speaking. First of all, they managed to agree politically on not using another word, with their coalition partners from "There is such a people" and, together with that, they managed to make so that with the sign that their coalition partners gave with their vote, even if in the future these particular coalition partners have any claims, it is now certain that it will not come to this point, to such a situation, it will not have to be reached. I think you know what I mean. Next, I would like to address the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people." Colleagues, for two hours I've been listening to analysis and calculations, mathematicians, how there's been damage to the opposition parties. What you were talking about has degenerated into a purely and simply trade deal. A deal with which you once again managed to win something that only you and your coalition partners knew. All this talk of yours, fellow Members of the.There is such a people, for justice has shown that with your vote, in which even your President has called on you not to support your own proposals, you have degenerated into a purely trade deal. Unlike you, we have been principled and we have shown it with the vote we made a little while ago on the previous point. We are principled and do not allow ourselves to be used in the yet another political bargaining that takes place in the ruling coalition. That is why we, at the time of rebirth, unfortunately, have no reason to support this proposal. Thank you, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u239	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Mr. Petrov? Mr. Ivanov, are you for a line? Are you going to make a line? There are no lines to Mr. Petrov's statement. We're moving on to our next speech. Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues, there are not many people left in this Chamber to hear what I would like to share, but Mr. Hristo Ivanov is here, he will hear and I am grateful for this. Mrs. Atanasova at the beginning of this debate told you that we are talking about the protocol and we are really talking about the protocol. Someday these protocols someone will open them up to the ill-intentioned people will find the stupid decisions they are made and they will appeal to them, I hope the well-intentioned will hear what we have said. Yesterday, many things were said in the political declaration of the group of GERB-SDS. I don't know if you've heard all of them, but I'll remind you of two. One thing Mrs. Atanasova said was that no one has become good because he has explained how bad the other one is. Whoever wants to be good has to be better, or it won't work. And the second thing you said is that you do not realize, but with the talking against GERB-SDS, the talking, any insult that is an insult to my colleagues, is an insult to me personally and to our voters, you lose one vote, and we win one. You'll see that too. [[Relations from the National Representative Vladimir Tabutov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u241	Not from a place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u242	Ms. Atanasova in her speech at the beginning of this debate started raising the bar and raised it very high. I don't know if you felt it? We're raising the bar so high that we can show you that you can't jump it. Because Mr. Karadaye, you're absolutely right the young have to learn, but the young have to learn by example and we have to give them an example of how to raise the bar and how to jump. I'm gonna get it up a little bit more. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u243	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u244	Colleagues, please open the Constitution and read art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 says that each MP represents all voters, the whole people, not just their own. What I am about to say is very paradoxical, it will sound paradoxical to you, but majority MPs also represent our constituents, and we represent their constituents, which means that any decision taken by the National Assembly must be in line with the interests of all voters, which means the interests of the Bulgarian people. And that's in the Constitution. And from here, colleagues, excuse the lecture on Constitutional Law, but again, we are talking about protocol, and we are trying to say something to the young, hence it follows that the distribution in the parliamentary committees follows the proportions that the people have said they are, and the guidelines of the parliamentary committees must follow the proportions that the people have said they are. This is not a matter that can be solved by a majority of singles with a mathematical majority from a position of power. It's not! Because I say again: any decision to be made in this House must be in line with the interests of all of us, not with the interests of ours or yours, because ours and yours, by the way, have common interests in general. There is no case in which GERB-SDS in this Parliament has not proposed a solution that is in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens and there is no solution that has offered the majority, which is also in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens. It has, as we can see, been serving some private economic interests lately. They are some business decisions, as, by the way, colleague Petrov very rightly said: and this decision is now a business solution, some trade deal that is happening, with two seats in two committees and we will probably find out what the deal is with any subsequent votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u245	Mr. Cholakov, the group is running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u246	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u247	We'll extend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u248	Continue, because there is one more moment of constitutionality that I would like to address to you, which you will not understand, but we will talk about it sometime. To them, to future people we tell. The idea that the MPs, each MP, represent the entire people is also in this, colleagues, that the decisions of the Council of Ministers or the proposals, the laws, the draft decisions which the Council of Ministers makes should be discussed not through the prism of the interests of the Council of Ministers, not through the interest of Kiro, Asen, Lena, and I do not know who else, but through the interest of the entire Bulgarian people. And that is why, if we reflect on the constitutional rule, we should be aware, you should be aware, because we are aware that the Council of Ministers has tabled something does not mean that the majority of the position of power should vote on it irreparably if it sees that it is directly the interest of the Bulgarian people. Therefore, colleagues, within the parliament, there must be cooperation between the majority and the opposition, so this division of committees was invented and therefore these quotas were invented in order to be able to take into account the interests of the entire Bulgarian people, not the Council of Ministers and not the majority. That's the constitutional idea! Here is the bar and it is set by the Bulgarian Constitution, if you please jump it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u249	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For lines? Here you go, mate, for a line. Three lines are requested. Mr. Karadaye, it's your second line to alternate the groups. Mr. Mitev, I've noticed you, you'll be third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u250	Dear Mr. Cholakov, I took the liberty of replicating you and apologizing for this thing, so I'm going out of the stands to do it. I did it precisely for the reason that this is the example that you are giving us here all the time you are replicating and we really have no one to learn anything from that that will help to bring parliament back to Bulgaria constructively. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You said that every insult from us to you takes away one of the votes we have received from our supporters. If we count every insult to us, there will obviously not be enough voters in Bulgaria to actually list. You also talked about personal interests for all voters. Since the beginning of the forty-seventh National Assembly, I've been taking notes on the example that you give for the support of all interests, and I'm going to read a few of them: 400 million for a dam, 20 million for a gym...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u251	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u252	...5 million for one drilling in Chiren, 86 million for concessions for forests that have not been collected...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u253	Mr. Tabutov, what does this have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u254	...56 million for a trip to Vratsa, which wasn't made, and 1 million for a pipe. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That's the example you're giving us. How do we learn? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u255	No lines from the place! Mr. Tabutov, this has nothing to do with the subject. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Here's a line for you, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Cholakov, you have called on us to help the young and the inexperienced, and I join the young and the inexperienced, so I decided to respond to your invitation, speaking of normality, statehood and democracy, to restore them by listening to colleagues. I will try to give my definition by saying that I myself also make enough efforts to learn, including from the younger and more inexperienced colleagues, there is always something to learn from each one. But in order to restore normality in politics we understand to restore dialogue, to have dialogue between politicians, between political parties, parliamentary groups, to have dialogue between power and opposition, to have dialogue with the civil sector, not only with non-governmental organisations, there are a number of other civil and branch organisations that we should also hear. The restoration of statehood for us is still not abstraction and it is not complicated, Mr. Cholakov, it is to have a dialogue between the institutions and the separation of authorities, but the division of authorities and the non-interference in the work of the various authorities. And the separation of authorities and dialogue we understand it this way. The different authorities, the different institutions to function in dialogue, in coordination and to have mutual control between the different authorities as defined in the Constitution, so does the Constitution. And the restoration of democracy is also not abstraction. It's still something quite human and understandable. Two topics that go hand in hand, parallel, together, not one at the expense of the other. One is the rule of law, the law, and the other is the protection of rights and freedoms together, not one at the expense of the other! Thank you if I've gone too far with the temptation you've made me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u257	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. For a third line, however, I will give the floor to Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova because your group had already had a line. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Mitev with a request for a speech.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u258	Okay, thanks. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Cholakov, I'm afraid we've lost more time. You were trying to set an example of kindness for the young. And no, it's not vice to be young, it's not vice to be inexperienced, it's important to learn. But they didn't understand you, and that's pathetic. It is a pity that they did not understand, and many of them are not present in the Chamber, the words of Mr. Karadayi. It's very complicated, gentlemen, to talk about Montesquieu to people who hardly understand what a division of authority is, which is to abide by the rules of separation of powers. Although historically, it is Montesko's theory of separation of authorities that comes on the agenda, because it precedes the rebellion of young people, a long topic and a long debate. But, gentlemen, is it for this room and is it for this audience?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Cholakov, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u261	Thank you to the replicators. Mrs. Atanasova, they probably don't understand, but I hope, I don't hope, I know that there are enough people in this room from the system parties that they understand. Thank you, Mr. Karadayi, for continuing your lecture on constitutional law from your youth. However, you know, I want in my line to address you and the colleagues from the system parties who are here because we are people who understand what is happening. And what you know is that last year was going on, so these three choices that we've been through, I can't help but believe that they weren't the product of some whim, they weren't the product of some subjective thing here we don't like, let's break up the Assembly. In all the actions that were taking place last year, I predicted hits against the political system, against the party system as such and for me these continuing systemic violations of the Constitution that are taking place in this National Assembly are part of this project, it is a project. This is a project to destroy constitutionality, institutionality, the concept of legal order, in order to get to a situation where everyone wants to change the political party system. These are, I have said, hit the Bulgarian Constitution with a ram which was carried out last year and which are continuing now. I don't want us to stand by and watch, or some of us give in, support just to humiliate their political adversary from the past, or just to get back for some old insults, to participate in the destruction of the political system, whose debris will bury everyone, they will bury Bulgaria. So excuse the emotional or too far going speech, but for me this is a fundamental problem, it is a conceptual problem and I agree with you.. Until we start leading between the system parties the dialogue on how to stop this legal and anti-constitutional limitlessness and what institutional and organisational measures should be taken to stop, we will not get out of this situation. So I'm glad this debate happened today, and I hope it can be the beginning of that other conversation we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u262	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Iskren Mitev is listed for a statement. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? That's the final statement, I guess.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u263	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! I wanted to make a line for Mr. Cholakov, but because that's how the distribution happened, I'm going to use it as a brief statement. Mr. Cholakov said that one day the transcripts will be opened, and according to him the well-intentioned people will see something. My opinion is not such and I think they will laugh and they will laugh at the fact that people of GERB speak here for good, such as the opinion of society, unfortunately, you say that you see what is happening, honourable representatives of GERB, people of society do not see you as good, on the contrary, they see you as evil...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u264	Mr. Mitev, your statement has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u265	...and the bar is already up. My request is and I hope that with your actions as opposition you will succeed at least a little bit to disprove everyone who thinks so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u266	Specifically on the point, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u268	For a line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u269	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Mitev, although your speech was not on the subject, I will allow myself to return you and tell you what you will vote on in a moment. What you will vote on in a short time, the ruling majority, has nothing to do with the result of the analysis made by the colleagues from the "There is such a people" based on the burden distribution of the MPs, the separate parliamentary groups, in the committees. I will tell you what you will vote on, Mr. Mitev, because you will vote on it, as you can see, from the opposition we will not support you. We are continuing the change and the entire coalition from which the cabinet is formed 4 months ago, one of the main requests of the financial deputy prime minister, who said he would make a reduction in administration, an analysis will be carried out, units, structures will be closed and the state apparatus will be optimized. In the morning, colleagues from the ruling majority, your colleagues from the ICN, our colleagues from the ICN, but your colleagues in the government, have done a respectable analysis that says that we need to get some people out and put other people in. And now, Mr. Mitev, you will vote in a little bit the opposite, as will happen in the administration instead of closing structures to optimize, you have created new ministries, you have appointed 50 advisors, I will not enter into the topic of whether or not it is relatives, friends around the management, we will not discuss it today, but it is a fact, you will increase the number after an analysis and this will be seen in the management. There will be no reduction of administration, there will be opening of new structures, new committees, new agencies, new ministries, new advisers, deputy ministers, ministers and so on. That's what we're going to vote on, Mr. Mitev, in a moment. Express yourself on this decision, which today increases the composition by one piece, and not compensate for what is based on the analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u270	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there anyone for a second line? Are there any other statements? We're closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u271	Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote the draft decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and on amendments to the composition of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 117 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the second draft decision amending the Decision on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance and on changes in the composition of the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: 114, against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I give the floor to Mrs. Vasileva for nominations of members for the two committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" for a member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs I propose Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and for the Committee on Budget and Finance Snezhanka Rajchovska Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I'm putting the nominations to the vote. First, we vote on Zlatomira Mostrova's nomination for the Legal Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 131, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are voting for Snezhanka Trajanska's nomination as a member of the Budget Committee. 140 MPs voted: 128 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. This item has exhausted this item from the agenda. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Party Resurrection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u274	For several weeks Bulgaria has been dealing with what the Bulgarian government refused to do alone, as is by law, namely the wish of the government, which was elected by the quadruple coalition, to vote for military aid for Ukraine. At the same time, this thing was transferred to parliament. In my view, a good option, as it was seen in parliament that, apart from the ruling quadruple coalition, GERB and DPS stood closely behind other pro-European and pro-NATO countries, as everyone here, except for aging, are declared. Using all this time to vote on military technical assistance, support, or whatever you want to call it, something that was declared to pass, that if it does, the BSP will leave the coalition, and we all saw that it didn't happen and it won't happen. At the same time, the government today at its meeting was one of the points it discussed was the adoption of a National Plan for the introduction of the euro. We at ARGUING would like to recall that exactly one year ago with this same finance minister, in a caretaker government of Radev, wanted to adopt quietly this same National Plan for the introduction of the euro. At that time, thanks to the revival and active actions before the Ministry of Finance, this plan was withdrawn, was not voted out and was not adopted. However, something that the current government, in the face of the BSP, is continuing the Change, there is such a people and the Democratic Bulgaria, put to the vote and proceed to the next disastrous step for Bulgaria, namely the introduction of the euro as a bargaining chip in Bulgaria and the loss of total capital and monetary sovereignty. Something that, from the very moment when the coalition of GERB and VMRO-BAND came to do, was, to put it mildly, improperly and inappropriately, for the simple reason that the leadership of BNB, in the face of Mr. Radev, which we have asked twice whether there is an analysis of the benefits and risks that hides the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria and the entry of Bulgaria into the euro area, clearly and precisely in written response we received an answer that such an analysis was not made and there is no available in BNB. The very fact that one of the most important institutions in Bulgaria, in the face of BNB, having probably the most serious analytical capacity has not done the analysis in question to say whether Bulgaria needs and what are the risks for entering the euro area, is indicative that this is not an economically justified choice before us as a country. Moreover, this is a political choice that the parties present here, with the exception of aging, declare as a valuable choice. Something we can't accept at the time of rebirth. Currently, for several months in Bulgaria, even during the adoption of this budget, inflation began to reach two-digit size. Currently, official inflation is over 12%, and the informal is certainly over 20 per cent. Each one of you, when you enter the store, can make sure that the food you buy today, tomorrow how much it will cost. When you go to fuel, you can see that fuel prices are already over three levs. Against this whole background with the inflation crisis that we have, and we are one step away from having galloping inflation, in the euro area itself, there is an unprecedented rise in inflation. Moreover, countries such as Estonia, which were recently on a currency board, like Bulgaria, and are recently in the euro area, have, to put it mildly, frightening inflation where we are headed as a country. It is not economically justified, it is not nationally responsible, not to say that it is equivalent to national betrayal in this economic crisis, when miles from us there is a raging war, when the main supplier of all the energy-related raw materials The Bulgarian people in all sociological studies, even in these manipulated sociological agencies, clearly and accurately say that at least 60% of the Bulgarians refuse and oppose the introduction of the euro as a bargaining chip. Something that, again, this government does not want to consider as important and as important, what is the will of the Bulgarian people. We at AGE think that this government, which is currently, the least it has to do, is not to proceed to adopting a National Plan for the introduction of the euro. We know that all parties in this coalition that governs us, together with GERB and DPS, will vote on everything that is in favor of the Brussels officials, and Bulgaria will proceed to the introduction of the euro. But the common sense of the Bulgarian will prevail, and when there are elections very soon, the configuration in parliament will not be one to allow these disastrous steps. Because then one of the first things we are going to do is to change the legislation and to have the easiest opportunity to hold a national referendum in which the Bulgarian people should or should not bring Bulgaria's economy into the euro area! This morning we saw another demagogy from one of the candidates of the "There is such a people" as governor of BNB because just a few weeks ago his party, he himself, in no way said that they had anything against the euro. On the contrary, here, from this tribune, all MPs of the.There is such a people, together with the leadership, declare that Bulgaria's value choice is Euro-Atlantic values, the introduction of the euro and all that stuff that is inspired that there is a consolidated majority in our society. No, you won't! The truth is that this is precisely why we at the age could not support the same kind of candidates for the governors of BNB. The two are for the introduction of the euro, for the loss of financial, fiscal and monetary sovereignty, for the subjugation of the Bulgarian National Bank of the European Central Bank; the return of the Bulgarian gold is against 27 tons of gold, the gold reserves of Bulgaria, which are located in a private English bank at the moment. They both said they'd run an analysis, see what the contracts were. This is given to Bulgarian society as an alternative. We are not able to support this alternative, which is the same alternative to GERB and DPS. It's the same thing, there's no difference. This is precisely why we are again calling on the government not to proceed with the adoption of the National Plan for the introduction of the euro. Let him ask the Bulgarian people if they want to be part of the euro area because these are strategic documents and lasting consequences for us as a state, because this is not something that will change the government today and we will cancel the entry into the euro area. That is why the Bulgarian people have the right to speak... should or should not be part of the euro area and introduce the euro as a bargaining chip! [[(Loud noise. Replies from "Democratic Bulgaria". Replices:..Search! Time!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u275	Guys, please, not like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u276	All of this we see confirms that there is a full majority in this Parliament, except for rebirth. And when "Democratic Bulgaria" talks about its liberal views, next to them proudly stand parties such as BSP, we continue the Change, DPS, GERB. There is such a people, I apologize, I have missed them, they are also prominent Euro-Atlantics. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That is why we at the age of old think that it is not a valuable choice the European path of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people should rule! [[Loud noise. Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u277	Colleagues, I've been incriminating Mr. Ganev about the weather. Now we can move on to the item on the agenda: SELECTION OF TWO MEMBERS OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL. A report came in from the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u278	Honourable Members, I propose that we extend the working time to the completion of the selection point for new members of the SEM, as you know that the term has expired on two of them. I'm gonna have to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to call your colleagues to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u279	I always call them for a vote, of course, even waiting. Is there a reverse position in this room? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of Toshko Yordanov to extend the time until the item on the agenda is completed. They voted 144 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. Now for the Report, Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also thank the BSP, which is the working party of the century, a labour party that voted not to work super, so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u281	Mr. Yordanov, no lines like that to the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u282	I apologize for saying they're a labor party that doesn't work. I apologize. Report on the proposed candidates to be a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly Prolet Velkova, Simona Veleva and Todor Belenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u283	Mr. Yordanov, let me stop you for a moment. Shouldn't we let the candidates in the room first?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u284	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u285	Let's first offer them for clearance. I propose that we vote in favour of the three candidates - Prolet Velkova, Simona Veleva and Todor Belenski. A reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting for admission of candidates. Vote 149 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the candidates to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidates as a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly Spring Velkova, Simona Veleva and Todor Belenski At an open meeting held on 21 April 2022 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Culture and Media Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for a member of the Electronic Media Council under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly on 7 April 2022. Three proposals for members of the Council for Electronic Media are received in the proceedings of the National Assembly: Spring Valkova Velkova, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" and Simona Zdravcheva Veleva, proposed by the Parliamentary Group. Todor Valeriev Belenski, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection. Mr. Toshko Yordanov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, noted that the documents under Section I were presented to the proposals. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and candidates shall comply with the legal requirements for taking up the post. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that the persons born after 16 July 1973 are not subject to verification, respectively Simona Veleva and Todor Belenski. Regarding Prolet Velkova, no documents establishing such belonging were found during the verification. Prolet Velkova's candidacy was presented by Mrs. Antoaneta Tsoneva from the parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria." Simona Veleva's candidacy was presented by Mrs. Gergana Daneva from the parliamentary group. Todor Belenski's candidacy was presented by Tsveta Galunova from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Revival. After the presentation the candidates added data from their professional biography and expressed their motivation for taking up the position. Spring Velkova pointed out that during her entire career at Darik Radio she had the opportunity to work freely, in conscience and in conviction, stressing that this independence is a condition that every member of the SEM should have. According to Mrs. Velkova, the SEM should be seen as an independent body that protects the media from interference by government or authorities. She pointed out that on the same line of independence of the CEM, the issue of the civil quota must be resolved in order to be able to present candidates as members of the CEM and through civil-expert judgements. According to Prolet Velkova, people who enter the Council for Electronic Media should be people with authority and with age-old names. Simona Veleva noted that the focus of her academic work is exclusively on the right to express her opinion, and even her dissertation work is related to freedom of speech. She pointed out that her contribution would be in the excellent knowledge of the legal framework in media and media law. Todor Belenski said that pluralism is a dimension of freedom and that freedom of speech and the press itself are extremely important for a legal society and a rule of law. Mr. Belenski expressed his concern that the journalistic environment in Bulgaria is in danger and that the SEM is only one of the elements of the media environment, which cannot solve all problems alone, but can help in this direction. He said he agrees with Mrs. Prolet Velkova on choosing a member of the CEM through a civil quota. Mr. Toshko Yordanov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, noted that no opinions were received for the candidates, but questions were sent only by the Association of European Journalists, to whom the candidates will respond in writing after the meeting. During the discussion the candidates answered questions asked by the MPs. Antonia Dimitrova from "We continue the change" asked a question to Prolet Velkova, related to the role of the CEM in the definition of media policies and proposals for amendments to media legislation, and Mrs. Velkova replied that she said the presence of civil quotas in terms of independence is necessary, as well as to consider the independence of commercial media in the part concerning the concentration of media. Spring Velkova also focused on the lack of a legal framework in determining what is disinformation and that this could be a problem in the work of the CEM. Toma Bikov of GERB-SDZ's parliamentary rudeness raised a question related to the content of public televisions and whether Mrs. Velkova claims the content of the two media and whether she would change anything in this direction. Spring Velkova said the SEM should not affect the content of the two public media, but only by changing the legislation. Toshko Yordanov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, and part of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" commented by Mrs. Velkova, on a Darik radio broadcast about that pedophile, according to her, is a disease state, asking a question related to Mrs. Velkova's moral compass and whether she believes pedophile is a disease or should be pursued by all the strictness of the law. Spring Velkova replied that according to her the first victim of pedophile are children and that pedophile is a crime, but also pointed out that the expert psychiatric community has been discussing this question for years whether it is a disease or a condition that is subject to control, according to her it is a condition that needs to be treated. Antoaneta Tsoneva from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" asked a question about how Mrs. Velkova can contribute to the greater commitment and initiation of measures related to media literacy through the CEM. Ms. Velkova's response was that self-regulation is needed, which should be encouraged and supported by the CEM. Gergana Daneva, from the parliamentary group of "We continue the change" asked Simona Veleva a question about how her experience in media law would contribute to the effective work of the CEM and what changes it would make if it were part of the regulator. Mrs. Veleva said that if there is a chance of being a member of the CEM, she will work on improving access to media services to persons with visual and auditory problems, as well as to the SEM, as a regulator, to be much more active than reactive. Alexander Simov from the parliamentary group of BSP asked Simona Veleva if there was a way for the SEM to give its assessment of the media environment in Bulgaria and about freedom of speech. Mrs. Veleva noted that the trends in the media should be reflected through a clear and written methodology of the standard that the CEM should apply. Tsveta Galunova, from the Parliamentary Resurrection Group, asked a question related to editorial independence and the quality of content, which is not necessarily pro-government in public media and how they could be guaranteed. Simona Veleva noted that the answer to the question relates to a legislative change that depends on the MPs and the change of the financing mechanism of the two public media needs to be discussed at a wider table. Dimitar Nikolov from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ asked Todor Belenski a question related to his motivation to end active journalism and to move into the administrative environment that is wanted by more and more young journalists. Mr. Belenski noted that he is not interested in administrative posts, but will defend his own principles if he is elected, who he is defending at the moment as a journalist, but also pointed out that he will not leave active journalism, but will continue to work actively there. Antoaneta Tsoneva, from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" asked a question related to who are the models in journalism that inspire a young man like Mr. Belenski. Todor Belenski replied that his personal example of journalism was Truman Capote, as well as Oriana Falacci, and his idea of journalism was the presentation of the big picture, as Truman Capote did without recording, but only recreating storylines by memory. Tsveta Galunova from the parliamentary group of the Resurrection asked a question to Todor Belenski, related to the topic of Peter Volgin, and what should be the reaction of the CEM to this and other similar cases. Mr. Belenski said that all points of view should be carefully monitored and that he said Peter Volgin gives publicity to all points of view, and each should decide whether some have more weight than others. Other questions to the candidates were asked by Miroslava Petrova, Iva Miteva, Petar Milanov, Toma Bikov, Alexander Simov and Toshko Yordanov. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the proposed nominations for a member of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly for which draft decisions on their choice are attached to this report. Projects: Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED She chose Spring Valkova Velkova as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The decision was adopted by the 47th National Assembly of... 2022 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Nikola Minchev Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED She chose Simona Zdravcheva Veleva as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The decision was adopted by the 47th National Assembly of... 2022 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Nikola Minchev Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Todor Valeriev Belenski as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The decision was adopted by the 47th National Assembly of... 2022 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Nikola Minchev Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u287	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. I give the floor now to the three proposed candidates to put out within two minutes each nomination. Here you are, Mrs. Tsoneva. You have two minutes to present Mrs. Velkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is my honor to present Mrs. Prolet Velkova's candidacy, promoted by the Parliamentary Group of. The main argument for our application is that Mrs. Prolet Velkova has considerable experience in the field of electronic media and public authority and professional recognition needed for a member of the Council for Electronic Media. The higher education of Mrs. Velkova is Pedagogy, with a second degree in Bulgarian language and literature at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. He also holds a specialization in media management from the school center of Deutsche Welle in Cologne. She is a journalist with serious experience in BNR from 1981 to 1993. Darik Radio is from its founding, from 1993 to 2007 she is a producer and leading the morning block of Darik Radio. From 1996 to 1998 and editor-in-chief of the media. From 2007 until today, Spring Velkova is a producer and host of the show "Who speaks" a popular discussion format, whose central topics are: politics, social processes, media, education, rights. The presented biography shows that Spring Velkova has over 40 years of experience in the media. Spring is heavily engaged in public activity in the field of the validation and development of the pluralistic and free media environment in Bulgaria. Since 1998 he has been one of the founders of the Media Development Center (CSD), and until 2022 he is also Chairman of the Management Board of the Organization. From 2006 to 2008, he was a member of the Committee on Journalist Ethics. Since 2013 he has been the CEO of the "Darik" Foundation, which works mainly in the field of media, human rights and education. For Mrs. Velkova's work, they have certified a number of awards for journalism, including "Voice of the Year." [[the President signals that time has run out]] , the Grand Prix of the Media Festival, the Award of the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Golden Apple Award of the National Network of Children, as well as the Award of the Heroes of Time Heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Here you are, Mrs. Daneva, to present Mrs. Veleva's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of Section I, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for two members of the Council for Electronic Media, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for the election of the National Assembly we propose on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Simona Veleva is a doctor in Constitutional Law, with the theme of her dissertation work directly related to freedom of speech and media and media regulation. Simona is an assistant in media law and ethics, Bulgarian media law and ethics and copyright at the American University of Blagoevgrad. There are numerous publications in the field of media law, as well as an active participant in public life and works on topics related to human rights, protection of the Constitution and digital rights. Simona Veleva participates in various projects related to the ethical coverage of children in the media, fighting disinformation, fighting hate speech and others. Since 2019 she has been an expert at the Supreme Council of Laws and her work includes preparation of opinions before the Constitutional Court, review of bills and other acts declared public and submitted to the National Assembly and preparation of opinions on them. She has worked with many organizations such as the Bulgarian Donors' Forum, CNSB, UNICEF and others on topics related to human rights, children's rights and the right to expression. The translation into Bulgarian into the Italian, Spanish, Portuguese constitutions, a collection with more than 1100 pages of practice of the Federal Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany. In its translation comes the basic law of Germany. He is an expert at the International Digital Rights Fund Digital Freedom Fund. Simona Veleva is an active advocate of deaf people and their right to express their opinion. He is actively involved in the Working Group of the Ministry of Education and Science in drafting the Law on the Bulgarian Sign Language, representing the organization of deaf people before the National Assembly in the adoption of the Law. He is also working on implementing the law and increasing the access of deaf persons to media and media services and guaranteeing their right to express their opinion. In the Forty-sixth National Assembly, Simona is an expert at the Plenary Sessions and Control Department, and in the Forty-seventh National Assembly she works as Parliamentary Secretary of the Council of Ministers. Currently Simona Veleva conducts seminar sessions except at the American University in Blagoevgrad and at New Bulgarian University, and as guest lecturer at the Sofia University Faculty of Economics, where she conducts a course in copyright. Simona is a proven expert in constitutional and media law with impeccable reputation and numerous television and radio appearances. It is part of the ranking of Darik Radio 40 times 40 and 30 times 30. I have had the honour of working with her outside Parliament and in Parliament, and I would like to share with you that she is hardworking, honest and a true professional.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u291	The weather, Mrs. Daneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Daneva. Here you are, Mrs. Galunova, to present Mr. Belenski's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We as the youngest parliamentary represented party and the youngest broadcast a young person who we believe has the necessary qualities to be a member of the Council for Electronic Media. Todor Belenski is 30 years old and is born in Sofia. He's a journalist by education, a journalist by profession. He worked in five different media, being a journalist and a vocation, as he himself says. He's a journalist who hasn't compromised his conscience and his principles. One of the fundamental principles it defends is the principle of pluralism and of reflecting all points of view. With his journalistic career so far, he has proved this desire. He has extensive journalistic experience, but he also has a spine. He upholds his principles, does not worry about expressing his positions, which is also very important for the work of a journalist. He has podcast, two YouTube channels in which thousands of Bulgarians follow his messages. In fact, we are raising up a candidate because we want to provide, here in this House, a debate and really choose the most suitable members for the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u295	And thank you, Mrs. Galunova. I am opening a discussion on this item on the agenda. For the beginning of the discussion I would just like to propose an editorial proposal in the draft decision for the election of a member of the Council for Electronic Media concerning Simona Veleva, in the documents I saw that it is Veleva-Stoynova, so I make the editorial proposal to add Stoynova after Veleva in the draft decision. Mrs. Daneva, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the incomplete procedural rules adopted on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for two members of the Council for Electronic Media, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, I am making the following procedural proposal to supplement point two in the draft decision on the selection of the current candidates in the hypothesis in which the National Assembly is facing a situation of election of one of the three candidates. My procedural proposal is to complement point two in the draft decision on the election of members of the Council for Electronic Media and is the following: 2. Where, in the framework of the procedure for the election of two members of the Council for Electronic Media, the National Assembly elects only one member of the CEM, on the day of the election, the Committee on Culture and Media shall hold lots of rules which it has purposely adopted, determining at the place of which member with an expired term of office from the quota of the National Assembly the elected candidate shall enter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u297	Thank you. This is point two in each of the projects. The existing text shall be selected and the relevant name shall be the first point. Okay. Please, the text in writing. Thank you very much. [[Heckling]] Thank you, Mrs. Daneva. For a statement? Come in for a statement, Mr. Cholakov. Ms. Daneva took this as a procedure, not as a statement, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u298	My statement, Mr. Chairman, is based on the latest proposal made by Mrs. Daneva. I'm forced to say, in connection with what we talked about earlier on the unconstitutional decisions: Did we beg you wrong, did you misunderstand us? Colleagues, such a decision cannot be made. First of all, I note that you in three solutions that are purely personal: it means a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a, that's what it says, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u299	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u300	The second point is: If the composition is not completed, it becomes one-what is it. The National Assembly should draw lots, or the Commission should draw lots. You understand the purely stylish legal dissonance? It cannot be in one decision that absolutely categorically chooses a specific name, the second point should be if something happens to another candidate, what should happen. It's purely stylistic legal. Two. I ask you very much to read Constitutional Case No. 16 of 1995. According to this decision, the Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly have absolutely no rights. It is forbidden by the Constitutional Court to exercise similar powers and any powers vis-à-vis the independent regulator and public media. It is absolutely impossible for you to make this decision! My suggestion is, don't do any more experiments, please, but don't really vote your names, decisions as you intend to vote them, because they are purely legal, and if it comes to the hypothesis that you're referring to, which is not present at the moment to predict it, I'll tell you how to get out of the situation, but not so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u301	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Replices to Radomir Cholakov? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u302	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Cholakov, there are rules of procedure for the selection of members of the CEM adopted by this Chamber. They say the following:. 7. Two candidates who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs are considered elected. If there are several candidates who have received more than half of the votes of the present MPs, two candidates who have received the most votes for have been selected. We cannot change the procedural rules adopted by the Chamber. So I don't see at all what the point is and you explaining, and anyone changing the draft decision on the choice of a representative of the CEM, provided that there are adopted procedural rules on how the choice is made. If procedural rules are changed, then the whole procedure is rebooted, the return again, the adoption of new procedural rules, new candidates, a new discussion in the Committee on Culture and so on, and so on, until it comes back to the Chamber. So unless we change a decision already adopted by the National Assembly, that is, to go back to the rules of procedure, we cannot accept a different procedure, let alone lots or anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u303	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line to Mr. Cholakov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Gadget. See, you see how people have to help each other? I didn't finish that thing, but Mr. Gajev is absolutely right. If these are the rules of procedure for choosing, then these are the rules of procedure, and even if I want to offer you another solution, I have no right to do so before we change the rules. Thank you again, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u305	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Noise and lines.]] I've suspended the discussion. There was no one to say anything about it. [[IHN lines]] For a procedure, Mr. Karimansky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u306	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a manner of speaking, we did not understand when you closed the debate, because, frankly, we tried to raise our hand, but obviously something happened and you didn't see us. I can say what I wanted to say in terms of speech and in the manner of conduct. Firstly, in the concepts that I have heard of all the candidates, nowhere has the way of funding public media been clear................................... they intend to clearly, precisely and firmly implement a model of funding of public media, what is this model, and do they intend to implement the so-called shared service organisation? I mean to require for public media a shared service organisation in order to optimize the way in which they are managed at the moment and to have greater efficiency and efficiency. The last thing I would like to say is that nowhere has the subject of re-transmitting audiovisual works and devoting copyrights from re-translation of audiovisual works by operators been addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u307	Thank you for this procedure, Mr. Karimanski. As long as it was in the manner of conduct, I will bear in mind these remarks. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants the floor.]] No, Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u308	In the manner of conduct, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u309	Come on, Mr. Yordanov, let's move on to a vote without speaking on the ground. I really didn't see anyone raise their hand. If anyone here, next to me at the chairman's bank, has seen. [[Heckling]] Mr. Yordanov, please! [[Heckling]] After that, yeah. There's a solution for everything in the Rules, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u310	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u311	First of all, editorial proposals. First, I made a proposal in the draft decision concerning Simona Veleva's nomination. [[Relations of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Gadget! At least listen to what editorial proposal I'm proposing. In two minutes, again! Simona Veleva. I see in the documents that is Veleva-Stoynova and this is not reflected in the draft decision. Let us add to the draft decision the text [[Heckling]] Voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. So far, so good. The next editorial proposal, which I have no reason not to put to the vote, I have no reason to judge that this should not be put to the vote, the House will decide. [[GERB-SDS lines]] We've heard both Mr. Cholakov and Mr. Gajev's arguments, I can't make the same decision. The voting regime is voting on Gergana Daneva's proposal to add a new item. 2 in each of the decisions, respectively the existing text: 1. They voted 178 MPs: 117 against 61 abstentions. The motion is accepted. To explain the negative vote, Mr. Gajev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u312	That works, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u313	Here you go. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u314	Dear Mr. Chairman, if you open the Rules of the National Assembly, there are explicitly members between art. 89 and 90 where it says what the rules are and how the rules are drawn up for the election of all the positions of the National Assembly. This is based on the rules of procedure drawn up and adopted by the National Assembly. Within these rules of procedure are also the conditions except for applying for what conditions applicants must meet and how their choice becomes. As I pointed out to you, if you open your page of the National Assembly, within the section of the CEM, there are rules of procedure for the selection of members of the CEM adopted by the National Assembly on 7 April 2022, i.e. by law with a corresponding decision. There is a separate section within them concerning the selection of CEM members with points 1 to 10. They explicitly describe how the selection of members takes place. There's no lottery anywhere, there's no bean throwing, there's no straw or a short stick, there's an explicit point. 7, where it says: "7." The two candidates who received more than half of the votes of the present MPs are considered elected. If there are several candidates who have received more than half of the votes of the present MPs, the two candidates who have received the most votes for have been selected. With this decision that you put to the vote, which you should not have put to the vote, because it is contrary to the rules of procedure which have already been adopted and should not have come to this vote at all, you have already violated a decision of the National Assembly. How? Explain to me how now you will follow the procedure of choice and from now on it is corrupted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u315	Thank you. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Cholakov, you made a statement, so you can't get an explanation for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u316	Then I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u317	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, it has indeed been a long day today, much of which we have devoted to talking about what parliamentaryism means, what does Constitution mean, whether the rules are respected and does the majority understand?! ▪ What is its role and function here? One of the roles and functions of the majority and of each National Assembly is to make legal decisions, colleagues. Many times today I have talked about that you have neither the Constitution nor the Rules nor the laws for nothing. We are now once again breaking our own rules adopted by the same plenary. You're a majority! On April 7th, you could have taken them differently. But do you understand that with this decision, which, by the power of the majority and very stubborn, because I have no other explanation, you would completely block the procedure! She's unconstitutional again because she's breaking the law. I think that you should think a little bit more about what you decide to do, because it will turn out that these two, i.e. the three candidates, perhaps worthy candidates to occupy these seats, will participate in a vicious procedure by yourself, and that will not be possible. I appeal again to reconsider what we say and to move by the rules as your majority has voted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, let's see, maybe it won't come to that hypothesis at all, we'll see. Otherwise, as far as these decisions were concerned, I had no reason not to let them vote. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I don't judge him single here! [[Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] We are starting the vote on the draft decisions that are voted in alphabetical order on the small names of the nominations. The first draft decision to elect a member of the Council for Electronic Media, offering the election of Spring Valkova Velkova as a member of the CEM. We are voting the nomination of Spring Velkova. They voted 178 MPs: 97, against 29, abstention 52. [[Single applause from DB.]] The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u320	Revoting! Revoting! [[(Replys to the right:) (Replying to the right:) (Replying to the right:) (Replying to the right:) Revoting!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u321	Revoting, okay. We're overreacting. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 99 against 30, abstention 52. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u322	For a negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u323	Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u324	My fellow Members, I voted against, of course, because of the quickly completed debate, which has not taken place anyway, you have not been able to hear what kind of person you have just chosen. By the way, I'd like to congratulate DB, who just pushed a candidate with DSS's long arm. Now is the time to say it, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u325	Mr. Yordanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u326	You have a man raised with the long hand of the DPS. You can thank them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u327	Still...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u328	Mrs. Prolet Velkova, whom you have just chosen, because in this room no one has ever dealt with television or journalism, there are few people. As I do not push, right, between slaps in law or in economics, or in finance there are experts there and you all know who they are, here regarding radio, television, media and electronic, almost none of you understand. In fact, you chose one person and gave him authority in a regulator, which is a typical representative of cancel culture, who, when something does not like it, forbid it and tend to impose penalties. If the CEM has always been a political body and has imposed punishments in the form of morality on freedom of speech because I have lived it, I can give a number of examples to you right now, just now, you have given power to one person who will do the same. Not to mention the moral work on the subject of how many pedophiles suffer and in the whole radio broadcast, if you bothered to listen to it, which she led, there was not one word that the victims were actually children. Since there was no debate, thanks to... Whatever.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u329	Say what you have in mind...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u330	You should know, so quickly closed debate on the quick procedure between a vote, without MPs being here, it wouldn't matter after the long hand of the DPS caressed on the shoulder. [[Replys from the right.]] On your conscience, colleagues, it will weigh when such a person in the SEM starts to crush once again some journalists, who have been they, whether it will be Peter Volgin, whether it will be anyone else, it doesn't matter, you will see a ban regime with similar types of people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u331	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov, but the Chairman has nothing to do with the fact that the MPs are not in the Chamber. Mr. Kostadinov, for a negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u332	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u334	I was at the hearing that took place a few weeks ago, and I can tell that what happened here right now was really bothering me because I really heard with my ears how the candidate who was currently approved was really explaining how to approach pedophiles with understanding because they are also victims. I suspect that perhaps the next one to be proposed may once be a champion of cannibals, may claim that lovers of incest are also victims of their own passions. This was extremely low trial, and I believe that today we have destroyed or rather you who voted on this proposal have destroyed the authority not only of the Council for Electronic Media, which as an institution today has it gone, you have destroyed the authority of the National Assembly or what is left of it. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u335	Third explanation of a negative vote? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, you're here for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u336	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. You decided to close the debate, and then in the framework of negative vote procedures, rained including defamatory allegations of a respected journalist who has been on the air for many years and everyone who has listened to Spring Velkova knows that the allegations of cancel culture and some reprehensibility on her part are bordering on defamation. Yes, Mrs. Velkova certainly represents that part of the Bulgarian media guild, which is sensitive to whether there is a standard. There is also a part that believes that there should be no standards and that all standards should be destroyed. And in that sense, I understand the cultural war that we are witnessing here, but there must be some standards. They must be carefully discussed, examined, questioned, and that is exactly what Spring has done and has given a platform for it in its programmes. And I want to say that the allegations of what was heard in this hearing, just don't respond to the truth, there are protocols, thank God, anyone can verify, if at all biographies and human dignity, personal dignity have any meaning. We didn't allow ourselves to attack your candidate for head of BNB like this, Mr. Yordanov. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] For BNB. I see no logic at all at any level in your conduct beyond this cultural war, which is on your conscience. I'm personally proud of the man we chose. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u337	Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u338	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, because you allow the debate to take place now. I have the right to an opinion, I have the right to explain my negative vote, I have the right to disagree with the CEM to go a man who is willing to impose regulations just because he thinks he is moral authority. The biggest problem in Bulgarian journalism is that a group of people think of themselves as moral authorities, impunity, who can put a seal on others and demand punishment. I'm entitled to that opinion. As for the BNB, you did not vote for our candidate. Say what you want, I'm not attacking him. All I'm saying is that your candidate is a bad candidate and a bad choice. I would support a purely coalition candidate of yours if he wasn't elected, but with the votes of the DPS. Thank you for not being in the room. You have helped to choose such a person. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u339	Here you are, Mrs. Tsoneva, then Mr. Karadayi for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u340	With regard to the procedure of conduct and the inability to hold a debate, I would essentially like to add something that is very important and in view of the things that have been said about Spring. Spring Velkova has a prize from the National Network of Children, which is non-governmental, in which there are over 100 organizations. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] If Spring Velkova violated children's rights, as they claim here, in some of her shows, she would never have enjoyed that trust. In addition, every Monday Spring conducts a transmission related to the education and mental health of children, where experts are concerned with educational policies and policies related to child development. And these people are on this show because they trust her and because the audience needs these shows.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u341	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Maybe at some point we should stop, guys. No one is to blame for the people who were not in the Chamber during the discussion. Anyone who wishes to make a statement should be so kind as to be present in plenary. Not only the President or who presides at the time should be here talking to an empty room or respectively, who came out of the stands. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the clarification you just made. I will continue in the spirit of today's behavior. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, with anti-rhytorics and anti-behaviour, one can enter the field of politics, one can reach even power, but with anti-rhythmics and anti-rhytholics should not rule and cannot rule. These are the models we've been seeing for the last 12 years. GERB appeared on the political field with anti-DPS rhetoric...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u343	Mr. Karadaye, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u344	...with anti-DPS talking. In this way they remained even in power. Your assessment of GERB I think we have heard it many times, I will not repeat it. At the moment, however, you claim that you are doing what is different from GERB, but on the political field you showed up with anti-ritorics, you have reached the anti-...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u345	Your procedure, Mr. Karadaye, what is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u346	Mr. Chairman, what you explained when I already had the floor, I try to motivate it with concrete examples. Mr. Toshko Yordanov here and a number of other MPs are throwing who he was close to and who he was at opposite opinions with. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, when you leave this stands, defend your positions and argue them with your conduct, not with anti-behaviour. This will contribute both to democracy and statehood and to normality...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u347	The weather, Mr. Karadaye!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u348	...with this thing we will also help solve the problems of Bulgarian citizens, and opposition will not solve any problems, at least your problems. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u349	However, Mr. Drenchev is ahead of you for a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] I agree, and in Mr. Karadayi's procedure, I didn't find any contact points at all. We're listening, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u350	Mr. Chairman, I am addressing you as the debate has been closed too soon and too soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u351	It depends on those who wish to speak, Mr. Drenchev, you know. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u352	Yes, it is. I agree with you completely. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The problem is that you then allowed through procedures to continue, de facto to start the debate, to reopen it, and if Mrs Tsoneva had done this in her speech, her commendable speech to the candidate of the Democratic Bulgaria. I would have answered her in reply, but since that is impossible, it will have to be done in this way by addressing you. I mean, the National Network of Children, which has given out some awards, is the same NGO that was created with funding from outside, represents a matrimony in which there is a next and next...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u353	Mr. Drenchev, no qualifications only, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u354	...and a next doll.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u355	No qualifications! Except the procedure is more for the NGO sector, not the Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u356	No, it's to the chairman because once you've allowed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u357	Okay, I'll talk to the NGO sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u358	...after allowing the debate to resume in the form of procedures, it is appropriate that you allow us to do the appropriate lines in the form of procedures. You might as well give Mrs. Tsoneva the right doppelganger. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u359	No, I can take the floor in the form of procedures at some point, and I think this moment is getting closer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u360	Yes, of course, one candidate has already been chosen in an extremely vicious way...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u361	Which vicious way, Mr. Drenchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u362	... a candidate who certainly does not deserve the trust of the reasonable part of the Bulgarian society, including the revival. Thank you. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT. National Representative Toma Bikov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u363	Mr. Bikov, is this really necessary? I know you mentioned GERB, you didn't have to, but... Final procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u364	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Nor did I intend to take the floor, even we had made a decision and in the debate not to participate, I do not know why it was held after the election and now everyone is complaining about the choice. I took in the way of conduct because GERB was mentioned again. 12 years. I'm sorry, Mr. Karadaye, but we don't have a candidate in this procedure. It is conducted by rules, by way of which the previous procedures for selection of the SEM were conducted, the same are the rules, but we did not have a candidate. We applied our right to vote, which he had abstained from. Thanks to you, Mrs. Prolet Velkova has been chosen and there is no problem at all, of course, but we...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u365	No more charges!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u366	These aren't charges, it's a finding. We don't have a candidate because we don't want to have people in the CEM because of that. But whoever wants to have people in the CEM is now responsible for them. Congratulations to the winners, we feel free. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u367	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. We are now going to vote on the second draft decision, which concerns the choice of Simona Zdravcheva Veleva-Stoynova, as we have already discussed. They voted 133 MPs: 121, against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We move on to the third draft decision, which is for the choice of Todor Valeriev Belenski. We vote on the Project. They voted 130 MPs: 19 against 40, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. For a negative vote, Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against the candidate for a very simple reason. The boy simply does not have the necessary experience for this position. However, there is a much better moral compass than Spring Velkova. He was the only one who spoke at this hearing about freedom of speech and that journalists should be free, unlike Mrs. Prolet Velkova, who spoke as a moral authority that should impose penalties.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u369	Mr. Yordanov, just...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u370	I'm explaining my negative vote. I'm saying...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u371	Yes, but it concerns Mr. Belenski, not Mrs. Velkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u372	Yes, I voted against it because it does not have the necessary experience, although morally it is in times above the candidate you put into the CEM. By the way, DPS, with your non-voting, you put her in the CEM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u373	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you all for the support of our candidates. Thank you. [[(Radio.) Clap from the DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-05.u375	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. And I'm glad we picked these two candidates. That is also the end of this item on the agenda. I'm adjourned today's session. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday, 11 May 2022, at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
