ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u1	Dear Members of Parliament, seven colleagues participate online in today's meeting: Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u3	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u5	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u7	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u9	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u10	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u11	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u12	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u13	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u14	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u15	Thank you. 188 registered MPs in the hall and 7 registered online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we go to the first item on the agenda, I say: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1084-НС of 26 January 2022 of the Central Election Commission on the declaration of Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov and Deyan Petev Petkov as MPs in the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, in the 47th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-1 of 26 January 2022 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 26 January 2022 which, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of the National Representative Alexander Velislavov Todorov from the 15th Election Region of Plevenski, erected by the party. By Decision No 1037-NS of 14 December 2021 the Central Election Commission announced the next in the list under No 3 Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov as MP for the time during which Radostin Petev Vassilev served as Minister. The Central Election Commission in implementation of art. 302 of the Election Code and in line with Decision No 8 of 16 May 1993 under the Code of Conduct No 5/1993 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria believes that the next permanent term of office of Alexander Velislavov Todorov should be announced on the list of Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov and at the place of the elected Minister of Minister Radostin Petev Vasilev for the time during which he performs the functions of Minister should be announced Deyan Petev Petkov under No 4 on the list of party In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Election Code and Decision No 8 of 16 May 1993 under the Code of Conduct No 5/1993 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly of the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov, EGN..., from the list of the party There is such a people. Announcing as a MP from the Fifteenth Election Region of Plevenski, Deyan Petev Petkov, EGN..., under No 4 of the party list..There is such a people, at the place of Radostin Petev Vasilev for the time during which Radostin Petev Vasilev served as a minister. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. I ask Mr. Petkov to be invited to the oath room as a representative of the National Assembly. Mr. Petkov, I will pronounce the oath. You repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u16	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u17	Can you do it the way you're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u18	Yes, Mr. Karadaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I have just checked on the website of the National Assembly, the status of the question asked by me to Minister Boyko Rashkov of 15 December 2021 stands that it has been answered, and such an answer is not answered. I still expect the documents for those over 20,000 outrageous militias that took place during the elections in July and November. Therefore, Mr President, as I asked you yesterday, I ask you today not to mislead the MPs or the Bulgarian citizens and to correct the website of the National Assembly. And to take on your role to remind the ministers that according to the Constitution, the National Assembly exercises parliamentary control over the executive power, and they are obliged to respond to the questions of the MPs and in due time, within the time limit, to submit all the necessary documents that the MPs have requested to them, whether it is a business secret or a state secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Communication: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 December 2021 and Protocol No 2 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund held on 24 January 2022 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to item one of our agenda under the Programme adopted yesterday: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. A report from the Energy Commission on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 47-254-01-3 was submitted by a group of MPs on 18 January 2022. I ask the President of the Commission, Radoslav Ribarski, to order the report to be presented.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 47-254-01-3, submitted by Victoria Vasileva, Ivaylo Mirchev, Miroslav Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski on 18 January 2022. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan: Paragraph 1 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 1. Under § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan: Paragraph 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 2. Proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Zhecho Stankov and Rositsa Kirova: A new § 2a is being created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12a The following amendments and additions shall be made: Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) Proposals for the election of members of the committee may be made: 1. the Members of the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Groups; 2. The President of the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. Bulgarian non-profit legal entities registered for public benefit, in the areas regulated by this law, under the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act and under the Consumer Protection Act; 4. Nationally represented employers' and workers' organisations. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u22	I am opening the discussion on the texts read by the Chairman of the Energy Commission. To make a statement, Delyan Dobrev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The point of our proposal is to give more transparency and more opportunity to all public organizations in Bulgaria, including employers, trade unions, NGOs, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, to be able to nominate candidates for members and chairman of the KEWRC. I see nothing wrong with our proposal, and I am surprised why it was not supported by the Energy Committee yesterday. In the end, the decision will subsequently be of the Energy Commission and of the plenary, that is, no matter what candidates will propose the extended circle of persons who, according to our proposal, have the right to propose members and president, the final decision will be of the National Assembly. Yesterday after 6:00 we received even another argument in favour of our proposal: until 6:00 yesterday only two proposals were introduced for the two seats in the KEWRC, which should be selected. One is for the chair and the other is for the member. So we see that the choice in this sense is predetermined. Therefore, we do not understand: why do you not support our proposal to have the opportunity, since the MPs cannot offer more than one person for one place, why not give the President the opportunity to propose? In fact, I am also making a procedural proposal: if we can divide the vote, the possibility for the President to propose that members of the KEWRC be voted separately. So I don't understand why you're against our proposal. You have come to power with requests that you will be transparent, you will be a new morality in politics, and you are using the worst practices of the past for a post to be a candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u24	Mr. Dobrev, just a second. You are now making a procedural proposal. Two, let's vote separately. [[Definitions between MP Delyan Dobrev and Chairman Nikola Minchev.]] Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any lines for Mr. Dobrev? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, you claim that you do not understand, but I also remember your statements from the first reading of bills and then here in the Chamber, there were opinions that this law was a lobbying bill in the Energy Act. The aim of these changes at first reading was to control the KEWRC in the conquered state by the oligarch and media monopoly Ivo Prokopiev. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] So, I think you've known this thing well since the first reading of the Law. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u26	Any other lines to Mr. Dobrev? Sincere Mitev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman! I would like to thank Mr. Dobrev for confirming that the practices of the past are the darkest and also to say that you have had enough time and you have to propose...............I do not know why you haven't proposed. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u28	Third line, Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u29	Mr. Chairman! Just days ago, GERB announced the name, which will most likely take over the KEWRC. The media came up with a name and confirmed it. If you think what you're doing in Parliament is something other than... [[Replications of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] I will ask Mr. Ananiev to continue wearing his mask and not replicate, because he is once again a laughingstock.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u30	Mr. Ganev, no such words!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u31	Just what I want to say and point out. Twelve years of darkness, you're only going on two months after you took over. Everything that's happening right now in no way improves anything, absolutely nothing! Regarding Mr. Dobrev. I would like to point out whether 12 or 9, as you have repeatedly pointed out, you had a wonderful opportunity, you had a full majority to do this thing. You didn't. And you didn't. At the moment it is not appropriate to do so for the simple reason that you have direct heirs for all that is happening.. will surpass you, with cheerful steps go towards the whole thing that is happening thanks to such people as Mr. Ananiev. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u32	Mr. Ganev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u33	I don't think what you're proposing is appropriate, at least because these NGOs, whether or not any organizations will offer anyone, when after that, if this person is elected and takes over the KEWRC or becomes a member of the KEWRC, no one will be personally responsible for what he does or does not do with his inaction. I don't think it's a good option for this thing to happen. That is why we cannot support what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u34	Mr. Ganev, on the grounds of art. 155 in conjunction with Art. 153, p. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the insult to Mr. Ananiev I impose a remark on you. [[(Applause and cheering:]] Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u35	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mitev, I listen carefully to you when you speak, and I have never found any logic in what you say... [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u36	Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u37	I'm entitled to an assessment, Mr. Chairman. ...but I congratulate you for continuing to go out and speak from this tribune, because there are fellow MPs who take years to get up to speak. In this case, however, the only logic could be that you are also following the dark practices of the past to offer for one post a candidate. You confirm that this is not a good thing, but apparently, when you're in power, you can do it. Mr. Karadayi, you are right that last time I declared very responsible from this tribune that the purpose of this bill is to take over all control of the KEWRC. Uniquely to take control of the KEWRC and give control as never before on this committee, because it has so far been a collective body unlike what will be from today on, because from now on it will be subject to two candidates, which we will probably choose next week or the week after that, which two candidates will make single decisions in the KEWRC. These are the two candidates who have been elected unalternatively because there are no other candidates. These are two candidates who have been dropped by the government to meet certain objectives. They are not the subject of a choice from the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u38	Still unclear law for the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u39	That's right. They are not the subject of a choice from the plenary and from the Energy Commission. We do not know what rules they must comply with.......................................................................................... This law, if it enters into force tomorrow and is published in the Official Gazette tomorrow, because such speed legislation we have never seen, but it is a fact [[(noise, lines and shouts:]] , speaks of an agreement between the National Assembly and the President for the issue of a quick decree, an agreement with the State Gazette to publish the amendment immediately, only to allow the new criteria to apply to the candidates already submitted. I am not sure, however, that they apply to them because these candidates were submitted to yesterday. Yesterday, that law wasn't a fact. Mr. Ganev, last time in the election of the Commission, in the election of Ivan Ivanov, if I am not mistaken, there were more than 10 candidates for the five seats that were free in the KEWRC, that is, there was a real choice then there were concepts. I would be happy when we choose to make the choice, unfortunately, we will not have such a choice, such a competitive procedure this time, because there are two candidates for two seats. I'd repeat it a hundred more times from this tribune, because it's embarrassing! And why we haven't done it in the past, why we haven't given an opportunity in the past to both employers and trade unions and non-governmental organisations and the president, including to give suggestions, but because somehow there was a greater democracy in this House and the MPs themselves and parliamentary groups offered more than one candidate for a place. [[(Voices: "Eee! ") We are continuing the Change.)]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u40	Thank you. For a statement? Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u41	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to you from the first day this National Assembly has not complied with both the Rules which have been adopted and the laws. In particular, what you are punishing me for right now, I would ask you to explain to the National Assembly what exactly... Because in no way have I offended the face of Ananiev. In no way at all! Something more important, though. Absolutely tolerated by your face Ananiev to do whatever he wants, to replicate whenever he wants, to take off his mask to replicate, then put it close to his eyes and that in no way impresses you! [[Noise and lines.]] Another extremely important point, which I would also like to point out, which is extremely disturbing. You are in no way impressed when, during the plenary session, the subcommittee of the Permanent Commission is convened finance and budget. I, as a member of this subcommittee, have not been notified. The Commission is being held, taking a decision, signing documents, after which this remains just like that, by the way, and it is explained to me: "It does not matter, it was not so important committee. " - Is this the way the National Assembly is being led? I ask you very much to exercise real judgment as to whether and who you will punish when you need it. And when there is a reciprocal attitude of the person Ananiev or much stricter penalties should be imposed when a committee is convened during a meeting of the National Assembly and the members of this subcommittee are not informed and the committee is sitting, no one is taking treatment, this is passed and once again we are breaking the law. Once again! And this is approved thanks to the new change that has come. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u42	The question of the subcommittee will be reviewed, the question of the imposed punishment. We will review the express transcript and I will show you the exact words you used to Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, not to make a mistake in the Chamber. For a statement? Vasil Stefanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After this zealous speech I will try to be a little more relaxed with my speech. I would like to say a few words about your proposal from GERB-SDS for the possibility of proposing applications for members of the KEWRC from the NGO sector and from employers' organizations. Firstly, neither in the Communications Regulation Commission nor in the Electronic Media Council nor in the Competition Protection Commission nor in the Financial Supervision Commission may members be offered by the NGO sector or by employers' organisations. This, in my opinion, is done in order to limit lobbying in independent regulators. This is actually what my colleague Mihailova saw yesterday in the Commission, for which I congratulate her. I'm of the same opinion. And colleague Ganev today confirmed in fact that aging would not support such a text in the Energy Act. Next, there is a study by the European Commission of 175 pages. I have not printed them all, excuse me, for the assessment of independence, the effectiveness of national energy regulators in EU member states. It's been analyzed... [[Noise and lines.]] Analysis does, yes. The European Commission is also doing this. ... Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Spain. In all of them, members of the energy regulators are offered either by the government or by the parliament. Nowhere is it intended to be proposed by the NGO sector or by employers' organisations, that is to say, this is absolutely not a practice in the European Union. I don't think we should do it here. Finally, in 2015, a proposal was made, which is almost identical with what was done now by GERB-SDSS, only then it was made by Mr. Kiril Tsochev by Party ABB. At that time, both in the Commission and in the plenary, the proposal was rejected without any motives, either in the Commission or in the plenary, i.e. there was no discussion, there was no debate, simply rejected. In order not to be naked, this happens on 26 February 2015, you can check the transcript from the plenary sitting. For this reason I ask one of the importers now to come out here and from this tribune and to explain in fact why and how GERB had experienced such catharsis and why something was then rejected, and now the same thing is actually proposed by the same people who then voted against this proposal. With regard to the fact that there are two candidates for two places only one note, although we mix things up a little bit, but Mr. Ivan Geshev was the only candidate and was elected, I didn't hear anyone say anything at the time. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. For a replica.. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u45	Mr. Stefanov, as far as I know, you're a lawyer. In fact, I think you've been working on the case that I'm taking against Elena Yoncheva, along with another of your fellow attorneys. You should know that when you tell the truth, you have to tell the whole truth. Isn't that right? However, you kept one part of the truth, one part of the proposal, which then Kiril Tsochev and not really Kiril Tsochev himself, but the Council of Ministers gives, and it is that all these organizations can make proposals to the MPs who should recognize the proposals and bring them in on their behalf. Our proposal with what was proposed then has nothing to do with it. Please don't manipulate the Chamber. You're still a lawyer, and you should be telling the whole truth from this tribune. The same possibility exists at the moment, i.e. that text at the time of the Council of Ministers and Mr. Kiril Tsochev did not make any sense, because without being explicitly written in the Law, employers' organizations can come to you, Mr. Stefanov, to give you a proposal and you can recognize it as your own. Am I right? I'm right. Therefore, in that proposal it did not make any sense, it has nothing to do with the proposal that we have made at the moment, because the proposal that we have given up at the moment does not need any MP or parliamentary group to recognise it, and this is an input proposal from the employers' organisations themselves, which is being examined independently by the Energy Commission and the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u46	Thanks for the line, Mr. Dobrev. Is there a second line? Okay, I won't. A hole, Mr. Stefanov? No. To speak, Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Is it necessary to amend and supplement the Energy Act? Of course, the Energy Act dates back to 2003. There are many amendments and additions that have been made in these years. There are a number of things in this bill that require you to sit back and make a new law. And is an amendment and supplement law necessary for energy in the form that you are currently proposing? It's not necessary for us. The logic of our proposals is to drop all paragraphs from one to eight and adopt in the Final Rules one decision to elect a President and another Commissioner. I congratulate you last night at 6:00 p.m. at 7:00 p.m. you finally found a candidate for president. Before that, there was such a people who found their representative. From now on, our proposal is in § 1 and, Mr President, since we are looking at two paragraphs at five minutes, you will allow me, if I pass the five minutes, to have the right to speak for the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u49	Honourable Members, you propose in § 1, the commissioners of nine to make them five. The importers could never explain why from nine to five. What do they mean? If they mean that five people are enough to be able to do a full analysis of all those imported projects to change the price of the energies of electricity, water, this means that you are trying to load five people with such work with so much weight that they cannot handle their task. It was very difficult for nine people to regain confidence in society, even the trust of the MPs. In fact, I can see that you don't have confidence either, in fact, you have taken down trust in the institutions, you have lowered confidence in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which we have been trying to build for a very long time. I am convinced that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission had a serious authority. You have also been able to overthrow the authority of this committee. I want to know why you made them from nine to five. The two committees for the water sector and for the energy sector in the following paragraphs will be concerned, I believe that with the participation of the lawyer they have taken the decisions very correctly and justified them both at an open meeting and at a closed session in order to take that decision, which is necessary by the independent Commission, by the commissioners, and not by the Commission's hygienics. Colleagues, if you think that this way you will do so that you will insult GERB because they were unable to navigate for the first five years, but then they began to know what it was about and listened to all those who worked in this sector, and they understood that this committee really should be of nine people. I have proposals, colleagues, over the years, if you want to look at them in Parliament's annals, I have proposed to you to reach 30 people, so that every price-setting enterprise can have control so that it can have to society exactly and clearly what and in what way and why the price of the regulated energy market is increased or reduced. That wasn't accepted. You went to the other extreme to reduce to five people. I think you'll find a way to explain how and how. As for the proposal and the criteria for a proposal, which in § 2 colleagues make, well, colleagues, you have lowered the level, the weight of the President as a qualified person who can be an authority and choose here the MPs that person who has a work experience. Years ago, it was a ten-year service in the sector. Then, in order to give the young people a head start, we took down five years of service, and you are currently downloading it at first reading, I told you: to that level where Cezzo from the parking lot could be a candidate for President of the Commission. You've brought him down to this level, colleagues. Therefore, colleagues who propose, apart from the MPs and the President of the Republic, that he have the opportunity to propose a President of the Commission, we will not propose Prokopiev as President of the Commission. Don't worry. Even though yesterday, yes, Bulgaria had a great desire to be him. Therefore, when proposed to have national representative employers' organisations, workers should be allowed to propose, it is because you have come down to that level where there is no end to who and how to propose, who to be. As for whether it's fast or not, because Mr. Delyan Dobrev here says you're speeding up the bill, at this speed you're moving, you're going to crash. The most recent thing you did was remove Plamen Georgiev. The second thing you quickly did is to dismantle the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The consequences will be very severe. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. A line to Mr. Atalay. There are no lines. Ah, there's a line. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u51	Dear Mr. Ramadan Atalay, you are right that we now have two very separate topics to debate in one debate. We have arguments about both. You have failed to explain, however, why it is happening and how, in fact, with the new proposals and the amendment in the Law, the newly elected members will be given full control over the Commission. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you should have explained better that the reduction of the Commission's composition from nine to five is with one single objective that the two specialized members can meet three people, because the total number of commissioners is five The composition of energy shall meet in the composition of the President and two Energetics. The President and one of the energyists, i.e. two of the three members of this specialized staff, who sets all energy prices, will probably be one of the newly elected candidates for the two possible posts next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u53	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u54	For a statement? There are lines before that. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova. Then Vladimir Tabutov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, Dear Mr. Dobrev, in fact two energy specialists and two water experts may not be in the Commission because under the proposed rules they may be bankers who have worked and financed projects in the field of water and renewable energy sources. So you're making a mistake here. It may be that the Commission does not have such specialists. And they are general specialists who worked in the field of a private company and managed a company that owns an energy facility, say, a hydroelectric plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u56	Third line from Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atalay, to remind everyone, the authority and expertise of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission depends not only on members, but on the entire specialized administration, which is 123 people. They are divided into five sectors:.. Legal....17 people....electricity and thermal energy.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So to argue that the reduction of four to two experts in the field of energy would limit authority and expertise, in my opinion, should not be considered serious. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u58	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u59	It took me a while to see that there may be a new chairman sitting in the seat of our chairman, the colleague. [[Laughter and lines.]] Dear colleagues! Mr. Dobrev, §3, I thought we'd have this debate at the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u60	Paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u61	No, no, §3 is, I thought we'd have this debate at the time, but I'm still not going to miss the line, and I'm going to turn to my colleague, Tabutov. Mr. Tabutov, we have already held a fourth meeting with the Energy Commission.. You are a person who has had enough time dealing with photovoltaics, but in the management of an enterprise I have the feeling that you have stayed away and even more what you explain how it is in the European Union if everything was normal as in European countries, as we are in the European Union, you would not have come to power. [[Laughter and lines.]] I think that when we talk about the substance and we have already entered a debate at second reading, we should focus on paragraph by paragraph so that we can make this law, so that in three months' time, if you are still here, you do not propose an amendment to this amendment that you are currently making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u62	Speaking from Mr. Georgiev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u63	Mr. Atalay, first to you. I apologize for the place, but we have an inexplicable love with you to Prokopiev. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, in my speech, you will soon find out what this is. [[Shows and puts on the stands a small device with cables.]] First of all, I want to say that I do not have any personal interests in the sector.................................................................................. Therefore, both in the Permanent Commission and in the first reading of the Draft Law, and now I will vote with pure advice in favour of the Bill submitted by Mrs. Vasileva and Mrs. Mirchev, Ivanov and Svilenski, with all due respect to colleagues who oppose the amendments to the Bill. I understand that they are mostly excited because of them nothing depends on the change of the bill. We've been staring at the nine-member staff as a sacred number, which is most relevant, as colleagues have said, for making decisions. Separately, colleagues believe that the adoption of the five-member Chamber is a vicious proposal that will not strengthen the balance of decision-making. It outlined itself yesterday in the Commission and the argument that the colleagues who will be elected to the KEWRC will not have the appropriate expertise. Here it was mentioned that there are specialized directors in KEWRC for years of proven experts. Again, as in the Commission, I will make an analogy with a minister and his deputies. They are by no means experts on all matters, but form an opinion based on the expert conclusions of the people working in these ministries. In my opinion, too, the argument that the reduced number would violate the credibility of the KEWRC. The fact that the KEWRC is facing at least 10 "15 protests" means that KEWRC has no authority over the citizens and therefore it is imperative to make changes to the Energy Act and naturally in KEWRC. There are other changes to be made, colleagues. A decision has recently been made to compensate the ERP because of the technical losses, but no one is talking about the non-technical losses, and they are millions of colossal losses and they are not because of the stealing of poor Gypsies, but because of the stealing of businesses. This isn't a conversation-tapping technique. [[shows little device with cables]] It's a technique for stealing electricity and it's stolen from the business. This little technique is placed behind the meter. When the checkers come remotely, the signal passes through the meter and when they leave, the signal passes by the meter remotely. Not to mention the theft of electricity in so-called bitcoin mining and so on and so forth, meaning changes are needed. Here was made a proposal regarding the President and he to propose. Well, why doesn't anyone say that the Holy Synod and the Mufti have to offer? [[Heckling]] It could, couldn't it?! It's okay. As for colleagues staring at Prokopiev, I expect him to be canonized soon. I will support you with both hands, dear colleagues of the DPS, and stop with this Prokopiev! We have three months of moratorium, and I think that during this time we need to put everything in place to make such changes that we can ensure fairer prices for end-users and non-bit consumers in the future. Thank you. I call for support of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u64	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. A line to Mr. Georgiev? There's a line. Come on in. You have the floor, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Georgiev, I'll be very brief. I understand the delicate situation that you are in right now, because I have known you for many years you have fought against the outrage of the oligarch Prokopiev and now suddenly you are in a very delicate situation. Colleagues, when we talk about Prokopiev and you call from the hall, this is an attempt to protect him. Just so you know how society interprets it! Mr. Georgiev, listen to me very well: this bill answers a very important question. Because the agenda of the energy-related society affects electricity prices for businesses, affects those vulnerable groups, namely the energy poor, affects municipalities that are currently making savings in lighting and crime flourishes, affects all those kindergartens, social homes in the broadest sense, hospitals to which this bill does not respond. If anyone wants the PP, tell them to disprove me. But do you know what agenda this question answers? On the agenda of the editions of "Ikonomedia" "Capital" and "Dnevnik" because they write against the decisions of KEWRC on a daily basis. Read 'em! Yes, it may be money lost in the wind indeed, but you will get very valuable information. Now you will find out who sets the agenda of society, and in this case it is the oligarch Prokopiev! The agenda of citizens, of business, of all vulnerable groups in this bill is gone. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u66	Is there another line to Mr. Georgiev? I won't. A hole, Mr. Georgiev, would you like one? No. For a statement? Rositsa Kirova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Why do I think we will make a mistake in reducing the number of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission? I believe that it has been sufficiently well argued by the previous speakers, and twice in the Energy Commission, we have tried to get a relevant answer to the question: what requires this reduction, beyond the financial savings described, for which, of course, we have not received an analysis. So I'm not going into that part. However, I would like to draw attention to the specialised administration and the arguments that are quite strange in this case. Yes, KEWRC has a specialized administration and it numbers a huge number of employees. Here we have a President of the National Assembly and a former President of the National Assembly in the Chamber. Perhaps they will tell us how specialized the administration of the National Assembly is. Because if we follow your logic, Lord Tabutov, I think you have argued the KEWRC's expertise with the specialized administration, we could leave the hall. We will make huge savings for Bulgarian citizens. And the specialized administration, which has worked for the last thirty years or twenty years, can safely perform our functions. Let us reduce the number of MPs from 240 to 20, say, or to 35, as the Mirs, and then we will save enough money to the Bulgarian taxpayer, and we will lie on the expertise of the employees working in the specialized administration of the National Assembly. They have no less expertise than those who work in KEWRC in their field. The arguments I have been listening to for the last week and what I heard yesterday in the Chamber of the National Assembly, where the Energy Committee is meeting, are very disturbing because they are of the type: Revival would not support it, which means that neither would we support it! Yeah, but they're against the green certificate and they're not wearing masks, and you're wearing a mask and you have a green certificate. So your argument is extremely irrelevant and is quite ridiculous, provided you express it from the National Assembly's stand at the second reading of the bill. In terms of speaking truths. Half-truths are the argument of a weak man who has nothing else to argue with. We can manipulate and let society down for a long time. Unfortunately, the results are visible. Most of the municipalities turn off their street lighting, there are schools, kindergartens, homes for elderly people who can't pay their electricity bills, the temples of all religions in the state face a situation where they can't pay their bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u68	Mrs. Kirova, on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u69	These are the real problems that need to be solved. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. We have not received any answers to any of the questions asked during the Energy Commission. This is very disturbing and actually talks about a lack of principles, it also speaks about a lack of desire to make the so-called change that so much we are being talked about not only during election campaigns, but I have a feeling that we are continuing to be in an election campaign the way you are acting at the moment. I hope you disprove me! I'd be happy if you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u70	Thank you. Is there a line to Mrs. Kirova? There's one from Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kirova, please, when you say a lot, specify what you mean by many municipalities? A lot of municipalities means 50 plus 1%, at least to me. If it means anything less or more to you, specify what you mean by "many municipalities" and how many municipalities do not have street lighting? Otherwise, you deceive and manipulate the hall and people in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u72	Prof. Tonev's line. Mr. Ganev, are you for a line too? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Kirova, you of this tribune pointed out exactly what the half-truth is about! Half-truth is that a group of MPs have a green certificate, but they don't use it. And what you said is half-truth. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Half-truth is that in some municipalities there could be an increase in criminal activity until the lights are on, but this will be a result of the mayor's decision. That's half-truth, too! Half-truth will be if we say that the current KEWRC Commission has investigated what is happening to the cold reserve, which in some TPPs results in good revenue from some citizens of the Republic. So it is very important that we understand the meaning of the word "industry" when we say it from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u74	Thank you, Professor Tonev. And Tsoncho Ganev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u75	Mr. President, my remark relates to the fact that the opinion expressed is mild and I do not agree that what is being said illustrates the very real difficult situation that we are in. It's not normal for the speaker before I explain that it's a possible decision of the mayor. I don't know if you have any idea if the municipalities are in front of collapse to pay their electricity bills or more than 50%?! [[Heckling]] More are the electricity bills for street lighting and for everything that is currently related to the real economic crisis, and not to the fictional green certificates that you start talking about again, because there is clearly nothing else to fall for.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u76	Mr. Ganev, who are you replicating?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u77	That's why I think what Mrs. Kirova said is quite soft, and she paints things in a much more favorable state than reality is. About what she said. We've always supported... As you have just seen, we are strongly opposed to what GERB has proposed. However, there are situations in which we cannot close our eyes and look for arguments that the majority has decided to reduce the members and with an argument the only one who came out and said: because we will save from wages. Excuse me, there are tens of thousands of parasitic structures and employees working for a day to pass, another to come, and you're hooking up with the KEWRC. This simply cannot be commented, and none of you for a second sitting go out to give accurate estimates of how much you will save, because this is the argument you have on salaries. How much? Given that you have structures that you have given to develop and collect taxes, taxes for millions, and there you do not touch. There's not enough argument to say we'll just cut the number. And I really agree. Well, then, let's get rid of the MPs and start working at expert level, see where we get all this democracy that's being trampled right now once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u78	Thank you. And the back of Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karimansky, I thank you for what you have said, but my perception and your perception are obviously very different, because even if a municipality has turned off its lights at night and has the opportunity to become only one incident, and to suffer one citizen, for me it is very much, for you it seems to be very small. In the field of finance, numbers are handled, and I guess...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u80	Numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u81	...with numbers and they want everything to be on a huge scale. As for municipalities that have turned off their power supply, they are indeed much more than 50, they may not be more than 50%, and as far as the rates are concerned, they can be described. You know, I'm from Vidin. Vidin Municipality has increased its electricity bill twice and a half for December and when it has become 250 thousand. BGN, and you paid for last year only 500, I think it's scary what's happening. As for Mr. Tonev and the half-truths. The half-truths that you have just spoken in the form of conjecture have nothing to do with my speech. Half-truth was what your colleague said, so I replicated it. However, it is true that you are not aware at all how sad what you are doing at the moment, because it is true that you have broken all the rules in the Energy Commission, all the rules for the implementation of the bill, all the rules for its examination, all the rules for the They were not invited, including any of the interested parties, to either the first or the second sitting. It's true you're not ashamed of this thing. It is true that you may not learn because some things God gives us genetically and cannot be taught in any school, in any embassy and in any law firm. They can't be taught and no one can train you on this thing. It is true that when you take pills, you can smile often, look schizophrenic and win...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u82	Oh, Mrs. Kirova, no comments like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u83	...the poor, pathetic Bulgarian people. [[Noise and lines.]] It's true, it's possible, it's true. We're talking about a statement. He said something about crime, I didn't talk...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u84	No offense, though!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u85	...for crime. There are such truths, but they are also relevant to the Energy Act at the moment. It is true that none of the members and importers of the bill argue in the Energy Commission, as well as here in the Chamber. We are talking about some common political work, yes, Parliament is a place for policy making, but when we have to apply expertise and make a decision about what is important, we have no arguments, we simply remain silent. That's the truth. And she's sad.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u86	Mrs. Kirova, please don't make that kind of statement. I don't have to impose two penalties within an hour. The first procedure was by Ivan Chenchev, then by Ramadan Atali. [[Heckling]] Let's just hear the procedures, and I'll give you the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use the procedure to tell you to pay attention and not to waste Parliament's valuable time, Mr. Chairman. These things really resent not the MPs, but in fact the idea of what is spoken from the stands is to be heard by the viewers, to be heard by the citizens. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm personally surprised by the language, the tone of the vice president next to you. We fight for the authority of the National Assembly, and we get this. Who takes pills, who doesn't take pills, I think is out of any comment such a statement. But Mr. Chairman, as there are many people here who do not speak on the subject, are wasting the time of the National Assembly, you have already imposed a punishment on Obershtumban Führer Tsoncho [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] But now I'm calling you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u88	Mr. Chenchev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u89	...to put an end to the debate, because both of these have been heard. Both of these have been heard on the Amendment and Supplement Bill, so I suggest you call off the debate. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u90	Quiet, quiet! Mr. Atalay, you also had a procedure. You're welcome, then Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I know that you cannot be the warden of the MPs, but I will still ask you: colleagues who do not speak on the subject, because Mr. Karimanski gathered together the mayors and the electricity distribution companies yesterday to pray how the ERPs should postpone the takings of the municipalities, today comes out and explains what is very little and what is small, and especially I was surprised at the colleague. From what I understand, he's a doctor. I had a colleague from Kremikovtsi, working as a construction engineer. He said he was sick. I said, "Joe, go to the doctor, and he says, "Well, knowing what kind of engineer I am, I'm afraid to go to the doctor." Let the doctors not talk about a cold reserve, because you specifically, colleague, don't understand either of the cold reserves or... I don't know how much you're a doctor, but I wouldn't go see a doctor. Thank you. [[Applause and laughter by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u92	The other procedure? Just a second to hear from Mr. Ganev. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Yes, we will also hear the opposite opinion, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u93	Mr President, we have just witnessed once again what I spoke about a few minutes ago about the double standard of our ruling majority, in particular you. Once again, we've heard something that's shocking on Holocaust Victims Day. A representative of the BSP, I would say another epithet, but out of respect for all members of this party, he allowed himself as your, I don't know a party member or coalition MP, to speak and to accuse the Bulgarian people of being a handful of unhappy fascists, and from here we heard a happy socialist explain that I am not sure what in the rank list of fascists. I very much ask that for once there be pluralism, for once, that you have an objective attitude and, as you were so harsh to say, that you will punish me for pointing out the person Ananiev for I do not know what reason that I have offended him, to be so good when your fellow party members, I do not know what to call them, allow them to insult the whole-built people, that they are a handful of unhappy fascists, at least in this room a happy socialist not to be able to explain to another MP that he is a fascist under some rank in his own I don't know what... Maybe at least on Holocaust Day it doesn't happen here, show respect for the millions, give our lives, because it's a shame and a disgrace to hear this thing once again about fascism, and it's from the mouth of people who aren't worthy. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u95	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u96	Wait a minute, we'll hear the affidavit. Before that, we also have a reverse opinion from Mr. Bikov. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Mr. Chenchev, please! [[The National Representative Ivan Chenchev is walking towards the stands.]] Mr. Chenchev, sit down! Mr. Bikov, I didn't give the floor to you either, wait a minute! Mr. Chenchev, in connection with the address you made to Mr. Ganev, I will now not impose disciplinary punishment on you, but a last warning, because this is the first time you have made such a statement anyway. With Mr. Ganev it can be said that there is a certain accumulation until it comes to his first punishment. We can also do a sample of the transcripts. That concludes the matter...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u97	I'm taking this opportunity to apologize to Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u98	Thank you. You made an apology to Mr. Ganev, which can only be appreciated positively. On Mr. Chenchev's proposal to end the discussions there is a reverse opinion from Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are making a reverse proposal and we insist on continuing the discussion about these three members we are looking at right now. Our parliamentary group has only made two speeches for three members five minutes each. So we've talked for ten minutes about something that's pretty important. You now want to fill your KEWRC with your people, which is a topic that needs to be discussed. If it's not too long, that's enough. We do not intend to speak any small talk here, but rather we would like to warn you that what you are doing is not in your favor, as it is not in your favor, when you do not like it, to end the debate like this, and at the very beginning of it. So I hope we do not accept Mr. Chenchev's proposal and continue the debate on this extremely important point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bikov, for your feedback. Now I will tell you how we will proceed: we will vote on the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev, on which Toma Bikov made a reverse opinion. Regardless of the result, there are two recorded speeches that will be heard. They belong to Rumen Hristov and Iskra Mihaylova. Stanislav Anastasov has not been recorded so far. There are two speeches that we will definitely hear, the statement of GERB-SDS We are going to vote on Ivan Chenchev's proposal. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u101	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u102	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u104	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u106	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u108	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u109	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u110	Tsvetan Enchev? Vote in this House 207 MPs and online 5.A total of 212: for 119 in the Chamber and 3 online, total of 122, against 86 in the Chamber and 2 online "88" abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Revoting at the request of the MP Jevdet Chakarov. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u111	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u112	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u113	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u114	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u115	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u116	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u117	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u118	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u119	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u120	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u121	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u122	Vote in the House 212 Members of Parliament and 6 Online? 218: for 121 in the Chamber and 3 online? 124, against 90 in the Chamber and 3 online? 93, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. As I said, we have two written statements, but before that the declaration by GERB-SDS. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u123	Thank you, Lord Chairman, for giving me the floor. When there is a declaration, you should give the floor to read. It's been about 15 minutes, but let's say that's what you thought. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the world calendar, there are dates of sorrow and sorrow, dates that remind us of the darkest times in global history, dates that bear the memory of senseless violence, monstrous cruelty and its highest price of human life. Such a date is also today, January 27, the day the Auschwitz camp was released in 1945. I'm really excited because this date is important and we need to remember it. Today we honor the memory of the millions of innocent victims of the Holocaust. We remember the lost lives of the totalitarian Nazi regime, which during World War II was trying to destroy some of the most basic human values of diversity and tolerance. Worshiping the lost lives is our duty as people and citizens of the world, but it is also a promise of generations that we will never allow such barbarism to happen again. The efforts of the global democratic community, aimed at peace and prosperity, must always be guided by mutual respect and respect for the differences between people, ethnic and religious. The Holocaust is the worst lesson in history that should be remembered, told and never forgotten. A lesson that raises our ability to take responsibility for the consequences of deeds we have not witnessed, but which have marked all of us. In 2018, our country became a member of the International Holocaust Memorial Alliance and took a number of legislative initiatives to enable the effective persecution of the perpetrators and instigators of anti-Semitic and other racist events. Because, unfortunately, anti-Semitism caused the Holocaust, but it didn't disappear with the release of Nazi camps. The salvation of the Bulgarian Jews in 1943 is a remarkable event showing the humanity and tolerance of the Bulgarian people and their will for justice. Forty-three MPs, headed by Vice-President Dimitar Peshev, stand openly against the pressure to deport the Bulgarian Jews despite the threat to their personal security and political career. Thanks to the efforts of the MPs, the strong position of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, of public figures, of professional organizations, of ordinary citizens, the Head of State, King Boris III, takes into account the public pressure and refuses to deport more than 48 000 Jews, Bulgarian citizens, to the death camps. These are not fascists, nor have there been a fascist regime in Bulgaria. The objective reading of history is a sign of the maturity of a country's democracy. The fact that 11 343 Jews were deported from northern Greece and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which were then under German jurisdiction, cannot be disputed by an objective assessment of historical events. We regret that it was not possible for the local Bulgarian administration to stop it, although attempts were made by Bulgarian citizens, by public figures and by spiritual persons. Each of us must take responsibility to ensure that the young generation is taught, know and remember the Holocaust, be sensitive and intolerant to all forms of nationalism and distortion of history. It is the only way we can guarantee peace, prosperity and respect for human rights. Let's not forget! Thank you. [[(Applause from..We continue the Change, GERB-SDSS, BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u125	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way of leading you to the case just now with colleagues, where you imposed a sanction on Mr. Chenchev, I quote: a final warning. Such a thing in the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, does not exist and I respect you: a reminder, a remark, a reprimand, a withdrawal of the floor, a removal from the sitting, a removal of up to three sessions. When we want to work according to the Rules, we all have to follow them. And from this point of view, there are no such penalties as the last warning, but of course there are not many. There was one ancestor of yours who continued the change and was known from his region of Kardzhali in the same way he treated the Rules and thus continued the change. I ask you to stick to the rules and what is written in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u126	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Chenchev is being disciplined anyway. I just warned him that this was the last time I wouldn't impose such a statement on him, that's all. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the points we're discussing. It is obvious that with the changes we are currently discussing, it is intended to control the KEWRC. This will be done by reducing the number of commissioners from 9 to 5 and by choosing two who should be replaced anyway. What do we offer from GERB-SDS? We propose that the circle of those who have the opportunity to propose commissioners should be extended. Why are we doing this? To have more choice, to have more pluralism, to have a competitive basis. We see from the deadline, which has already expired, that there are only two applications on one application for a separate position. This means that either you do not have enough footage and you offer only one person, or that you have agreed in advance. Your right, you are ruling, but we warn you that reducing the number of commissioners, arguing that you will save some levs, and that from the commissioners who regulate monopolies, is a big mistake. And I'm telling you from now that you will probably increase the number of commissioners in this committee to one year, because the specialized administration is important. It provides preliminary information, analyses does and so on, but those who vote and those who are responsible are the commissioners. One more thing for the count. It is much easier to influence three people because we understand that three people will make decisions in the water sector, and in the energy sector three people rather than more people. We want to change things, we want to make things more objective, there is no possibility of attack and impact, and on the other hand, we reduce the number of commissioners and we give this opportunity to happen?! Once again, you are entitled to vote as a majority, but you are making a mistake. And as for the possibility of employers proposing, this is not a coincidence, because they are the main consumers, the main victims of what is happening, and it is logical to have their proposals as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Hristov, I allow myself to make this remark to your speech about the reason for reducing the number of commissioners and possible savings. When we look at the budget for 2021 of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and 2022, we see that there is no economy. Only if we look at the personnel costs is 7 million provided there in 2021. And 714 thousand. lv. Staff costs. In 2022, as an initial amount before the Commission's resolution and before the update, the summer, when it will most likely be increased, is 8 million and 86 thousand, that is, we do not have 300,000 reductions, and we have 370 thousand increases. By the way, the Commission's budget will overall exceed 80 million next year at 10 million this year, but there are also court cases and expenses that will be paid, which we will talk about when discussing the budget. And with regard to the remarks from the Chamber that these are old practices, yes, they are. Indeed they are, and I will return by 2010, when the number of members of the Financial Supervision Commission has been reduced from seven to five in order to make savings. At that time, colleagues from GERB and the Reformation Bloc said: yes, we will make savings from seven to five. What happened? Previously, the Commission's budget has been cut by 30% from today for tomorrow, before the adoption of the 2010 budget. After they have mastered the Commission, they have increased the budget by 30%.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Second line is from Nikolay Angov and third line from Iva Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, we have done a 100 percent analysis, but in the hundred decisions that I have reviewed, the Commission is currently voting extremely homogeneously. That is, the specialised administration proposes the texts that will be voted on and the Commission unanimously adopts them. What's the difference between more and less people? Carrying responsibility. With fewer people, it's much clearer who's responsible. Separately, when preparing decisions by the specialised administration, fewer people in the Commission can have less impact on the administration itself and less bias. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u132	Silence in the court! Thank you, Mr. Angov. And the third line is Eva Miteva's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u133	Mr. Hristov, I would agree with you and with the proposal made by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, if quotas were provided for each one of those individuals you pointed out for the non-governmental sector, for the President, for the National Assembly, for the Council of Ministers, for example, to make it clear who is really responsible. In this case, you have simply suggested that these persons make proposals. We also know who is entitled to a legislative initiative in the National Assembly. These are only the MPs. This issue has been repeatedly commented in the National Assembly. You know that such a hypothesis is foreseen only in the Election Code, and NGOs through MPs, if they recognize them, record it in their proposal. That is precisely why, because the Constitution clearly states who has the right to legislative initiative and who is responsible for the elections. Such a hypothesis, by the way, is only intended for the non-governmental sector in the Law on the Ombudsman. It was envisaged by the previous Ombudsman on his proposal. When we elected in 2020, the new ombudsman himself was very surprised and asked: "Why should the non-governmental sector make proposals and on what grounds? " I believe that if you propose it as a principle of yes, I agree with the President to consider being able to make a proposal and to have a representative in the KEWRC, but not going down so low and the President to propose to Parliament, and you discuss his proposal and do what you want with it. I don't think that's the least of it. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN and "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u134	Thank you. Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Miteva, in the course of the debate, we proposed to include Mr. President. Let's talk about it. We have the opportunity now at second reading to expand the circle or narrow it down, to assess who are the ones who can offer to have a bigger, I say, pluralism in the selection of candidates for the KEWRC. As for what the young colleague said, first of all, is a collective body, and I do not agree that when people are less, they can be more easily influenced. In the end, I wouldn't accept what you said. Yes, I have not considered a hundred decisions of the KEWRC, I admit, but to say that directly what the specialized administration offers is voted so easily at the meetings of the KEWRC, which have been opened there are public discussions, you know what electricity producers or water suppliers offer, and those who deliver these services, and how the rates are subsequently determined that is not true in my opinion. Otherwise, Mr. Chobanov, yes, you're right. Usually, when we start making savings, we make more expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u136	Thank you, Mr. Christov. The last recorded statement is by Iskra Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After nearly two hours of debate, which could be said to have completely repeated the debates we had at first reading, except for the proposal of GERB-SDS, by which they may be trying to regain some influence that they feel they are losing something we have commented too long, from this tribune we have heard several times that the Energy Act needs work on it, a change, but what we are all doing as a request at the moment, as a dialogue between us, does not seem to be doing well with this. Even in the way this bill has been tabled, the way it has been moved, the way it has been commented and unargumented, as we have, by this day, the only figures we have heard, were by the opposition, and by the importers we still have no digital measurers of these arguments that they have put in the Project, which is already up to second reading with three days apart from the first, brings the thought of everything that the rulers have been saying about until recently, about some backstage. I don't want to think that. It's not just that I don't want to think about it, I don't want to comment on it. I don't want to have to talk about this thing in the first place. But I want, when we get together where it's right to say every single problem, every single minus of any bill, no matter who it's imported from, to be able to talk. What is happening right now, and what happened to the four committees that we had is that we had no dialogue on the substance. There were attempts that were made. Appropriate questions were asked. There were no answers to these questions, and there are no answers to these questions now. I will not waste parliamentary time repeating them as they have been spoken repeatedly. The right way to deal with this was another. I hope we can learn a lesson right now. I won't go on. I will tell you that we will not support and will not support the reasons and arguments that have been put forward today during the entire debate for two hours, the arguments that we have put forward in the previous sitting, that we do not have an adequate answer to any question to this day. The answers that we received from other countries were not justified in terms of ours. In fact, we need to be aware that when an independent body is reduced to members, it is rather a problem in terms of influence. Please, since this remains our only open question.. There are several more paragraphs that we will comment on, do this calculation and by the end of the point give this figure that you have in the only sentence in argumentation. I call on you next time we gather for something so serious, which concerns every Bulgarian citizen, to forget who has proposed what, to sit down and talk as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. For a replica, Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u139	Mrs. Mihailova, we see you have the best wishes. At least you, unlike the government, have heard the agenda of society and, like society, you do not see a solution to the problems in this bill. But there's one thing I won't agree with you on. There's no way, Mrs. Mihaylova, that you wouldn't think backstage when we were looking at this bill. There is no way when people who were in NGOs yesterday speak against them and exclude them from the circle of those who can nominate. Not just NGOs. We will, of course, support this proposal of GERB not because it is theirs, not because they, when they were in power, would not have made such a proposal, they would have acted like you and you are now acting like them, in the same way, but because it is a policy of the DPS since 2016 that active and free citizens will be included in the process. Any desire for them to be excluded from the process, such as the National Association of Municipalities, such as all other affected countries, as consumer organisations, is talking about only one thing, we do not need society. Therefore, Mrs. Mihailova, speaking of behind-the-scenes, you should know, when the current government is referring to NGOs, they only mean the NGO-oligargarchic, media-olligarchic circle of Prokopiev and nothing else. We don't need any other civil society in this case. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That, my colleagues, is very unfortunate. I really wish the main wish to continue the Change.I do not turn to BSP because they have suffered enough from Prokopiev over the years, perhaps and now that they are silent, you may have the opportunity to stay in opposition one day and you, as GERB, can change your mind and think what is good for society. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u140	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. There's a line from Victoria Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u141	Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Mihailova, it is obvious that financial savings are not the only and most important element in trying to improve the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Yes, you are all staring at the figure from a reduction of nine to five members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The aim is not only financial savings from salaries, as you are trying so slightly to downplay this action, but the demand for an extremely better efficiency of the Commission. If we follow the logic, the greater the number of an organ, the more efficient and efficient, then by this logic it turns out that here, being 240 people, our efficiency and quality of work should be 100%. I don't think there'll be anyone who'll agree to that. In support of this, I will tell you the effectiveness of the nine-member composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. You wanted figures over 2 billion losses in NEK because of the lobbying decisions of KEWRC, more than 1 billion uncollected claims of BEH because of the wrong decisions of the KEWRC and lack of control and analysis accumulated by the Heat Efficiency Sofia. I can go on and on, but I think these two numbers are quite enough. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Third line? Ramadan Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Mihailova, you also had a proposal in this amendment and supplement bill. Yours was identical to what GERB offer, but you are an extreme party, with you it was to cut off their head directly. Then the arguments that a fellow lawyer has made about how we should not adopt this bill are the same. But I'm surprised Mrs. Vassileva, she's been in the energy sector for a long time. When you read a document from here, you cannot suggest that the KEWRC has taken wrong decisions and on the basis of these decisions NEK or BEH suffered losses. If you continue to support this thing, you must prove it in other institutions. If your desire is how and how to influence the decisions of the KEWRC and it is not independent, you succeed. Come on, let's go! Let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mrs. Mihailova, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Vassileva, it's good to hear some numbers after all. We have never claimed that the KEWRC is in perfect shape, on the contrary, even the opposite. But in terms of efficiency and quality, as you mention, we believe that by reducing a lawyer and economist it will somehow not be decided that we should not enter into a larger dialogue, and it is actually procedurally impossible. Mr. Anastasov, I couldn't help but get excited about the backstage, and I just don't want to comment on it because I don't see where rebirth is connected to throwing the ball at the backstage on either side of the room. So that's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. The debate on the texts presented two hours ago ended with this duplicate. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the proposal for a name. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u148	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u150	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u151	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u152	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u154	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u155	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u157	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u158	Vote 196 MPs in the Chamber and 5 more online. 201 total: for 149 in the Chamber plus 4 online.. become 153, against 46 in the Chamber and 1 online........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. Moving on to § 1. First of all, we vote on the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan to drop § 1. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u160	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u161	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u162	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u164	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u165	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u166	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u167	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u168	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u170	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u172	They voted 199 MPs in the Chamber and online 7, total 206: for 76 in the Chamber plus 4 online.80, against 119 and 3.............................................................................................. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 1, as proposed by an importer. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u173	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u174	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u176	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u177	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u178	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u180	Yordan Majunkov? Mr. Madjunkov, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u181	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u182	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u183	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u184	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u185	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u186	They voted 200 MPs in the Chamber and online 7 "total 207": for 125 in the Chamber plus 2 online The motion is accepted. Moving on to § 2. First of all, we vote on the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan to drop § 2. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u188	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u189	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u190	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u192	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u193	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u194	Yordan Majunkov? Mr. Madjunkov, I didn't hear you. Fix your microphone, please. Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u196	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u198	Mr. Madjunkov, last try! I can't hear you. Please fix your microphone. Vote 204 MPs in the Chamber and online 7, total 211: for 80 in the Chamber plus 4 online "84" against 119 in the Chamber and 3 " 122" in total, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of § 2 by importer. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u199	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u200	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u202	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u203	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u204	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u206	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u208	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u209	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u210	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u211	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u212	They voted 205 MPs in the Chamber and online 7, in total 212: for 124 in the Chamber plus 3 online The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Zhecho Stankov and Rositsa Kirova to create a new paragraph 2a with the text read earlier by Mr. Ribarski. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u213	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u214	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u215	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u216	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u218	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u219	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u220	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u221	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u222	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u223	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u224	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u226	The vote was 208 MPs in the Chamber and online 7. in total 215: for 73 in the Chamber plus 2 online. 75, against 133 in the Chamber and 5 online.. total 138, abstention 2. The motion is rejected. There was also a proposal from Delyan Dobrev to vote separately on the possibility that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria should make proposals for the election of Commissioners, which is why I am putting to the vote para. 2, as proposed, Mr. Dobrev? ... with only point 1, which is already existing in the current version of the Law, and point 2. De facto point 2 is the new opportunity to introduce. That's your offer? That's right. We vote on Delyan Dobrev's proposal, which was made in a sitting. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u227	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u228	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u229	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u230	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u232	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u233	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u234	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u235	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u236	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u237	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u238	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u240	They voted 211 MPs in the Chamber and online 7, in total 218: for 74 in the Chamber plus 2 online The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Letifov, before we proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a re-voting procedure, but I also want to motivate. I have a huge surprise. Why, colleagues, did you disown the president? Don't be shy, don't deny the President after all, he brought you together. Please support the presidential institution. She's important. We're giving you a second chance. Re-vote, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u242	We're overreacting. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u243	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u244	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u245	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u246	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u248	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u249	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u250	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u251	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u252	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u253	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u254	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u256	They voted 210 MPs in the Chamber and online 7 "total 217": for 74 in the Chamber plus 2 online "76," against 63 in the House and 4 online "67" in total, abstentioned 73 in the Chamber and 1 online "74" total. The motion is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u257	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan § 3 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 3. Under § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan § 4 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 4. According to § 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Zhecho Stankov and Rositsa Kirova paragraph 5 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Ramadan Atalay, MP Stanislav Anastasov and MP Fatme Ramadan § 5 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u258	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. I am opening a discussion on the texts presented by Mr. Fisherman. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Jeco Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once the discussions under § 1 and 2 have been completed before I have the opportunity to take a stand, I will now do so in relation to the proposals relating to paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. First of all, we were really racing at great speed, racing, racing, that we even missed what we had to do with the Bill. Moreover, it will be nice as a reply and I will ask rather as a reply......................... if Mr President of the Commission or importers should at least say two words under § 3..... why are we replacing the figure 6 with the number 3.........................................................................................................................! That's the least they could do is explain it to me in the entire bill. But more importantly, here is the following: after we have made the necessary amendments to the previous paragraphs, not only are we reducing the composition of the Commission from nine to five, not only will it be sitting in a Chamber of Presidents with two members, but we are explicitly saying that of these three people who will meet during the meetings of part of the European Council, only one will have some competence in part of the Council, only one! We put aside what our colleague Dobrev mentioned several times, that two thirds of the Commission will be replaced and will rather be conquered by the new choice, but what is more, that with all the speed you have caused the following process: after the bill was first introduced into the Commission, the time of the Commission was amended and no one came to be present by the interested parties and was subsequently extraordinarily put into the Chamber. Accordingly, yesterday we had once again an extraordinary Commission, where even the respected media, after the hour of the extraordinary Commission was changed, were again unable to attend, and it came to the fact that at 6:00, when the deadline for submission of documents expired, we have only two proposals. In other words, not only the interested parties but also the interested future participants failed to submit their documents within these short time limits, unless they knew in advance that this was, so to speak, a race with a known end and is therefore with only one horse in the race. From now on, however, we have very important decisions to make in the Energy Committee regarding the bill that we are going to adopt today. Depending on when it will be published, we need to think very carefully on the subject that, from the colleagues who have submitted their documents for future Commissioners, I repeat, in part,........ only one will have competence in the field of energy, we need to see these members, once they have submitted their documents under the current law, exactly how we will evaluate them under the new law or how they have submitted the documents and have not responded to the current law?! From now on we have very important things that we will talk about in the Commission with all due respect to Mr. Chenchev, who ended the debates on the previous two paragraphs, this committee will be expected very carefully to continue to take care of the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business in essence, because at the moment the non-domestic consumers are on a free market and the consumers are on a regulated market. In other words, it is this committee, among other prices it regulates, that has mainly dealt with the regulation of household prices. We'll see what happens there. Ms. Vasileva, who is unfortunately not present in the Chamber, mentioned in the space two figures which, in the interest of the truth and thanks to the current Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, namely the deficit that was created in NEK and the losses in Heatfication and precisely to the co-operation of President Ivan Ivanov and its members, who participated irrevocably in the process of transformation of the energy system and in the process of energy reform, contributed to the reduction of the deficit in NEK, contributed to the fact that we have a compensation mechanism and that NEK no longer brings as a public supplier the whole negative of renewable energy and long-term contracts, and we have the Electricity System Security Fund, which with good skills managed to manage these processes and compensate the stakeholders accordingly. Moreover, from here on it is undoubtedly expected to find a mechanism with which we touched it yesterday in the hall for some of the countries that have been taken out on a free market, to be able to see how we will compensate the municipalities. Unfortunately, and the honourable colleague, who, in the field of finance, certainly has much better competences than I do, but he expressed figures that I personally find disturbing. If 50 plus 1% of municipalities had a problem, then we should have cared! On the contrary, colleagues, at the moment all municipalities are suffering on several issues and the first is related precisely that Mr. Karimanski, who entered the hall, for which I thank you that since there is no budget at the moment, the municipalities have only one twelfth to spend from their budget in the direction of the current year's expenditure, which now only with his electricity bill some of them exceed, in other words, we are putting them into a trap. So I ask you, colleague, to provide a mechanism for how municipalities to pay their electricity bill, and we need to think even more about making up for municipalities in the right way -- not just 75% of the price difference, but the whole difference to cover them, because you know that the municipalities in which both kindergartens and hospitals and schools are performing social functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u260	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any lines? Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u261	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stankov, yesterday I had a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities together with the Ministry of Finance and we have solved the problem almost, I say almost because there are still municipalities for which, depending on their obligations, this problem will be a little more difficult to solve, and the majority, as you like to say, has been resolved in January with a special letter that will be sent by the Ministry of Finance. In February they will receive compensation and these compensations will be able to cover their electricity costs for what you are putting in place. I agree that the problem is important, and that is why, in an operational order, institutionally, we are looking to solve this problem and we have done everything possible for the municipalities to be able to cover the January accounts in any way, and then the Februaryers will be with the compensations that will be transferred to them by the Ministry of Finance and through their accounts they will have them so that there are no more difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u262	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there another line? Rositsa Kirova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we have been informed that some of the problems of municipalities have been solved. It was nice to be told how, because delaying an obligation is not a solution. The deal about being postponed and not looking for their accounts is not a solution. What will happen in February with the compensation is really great that maybe the municipalities will be able to pay the bills, but you do understand that the government is not limited only in December, January and February?! Municipalities will continue to receive accounts and they will continue to be higher if the relevant measures are not taken and permanent and legislative changes or compensations are not foreseen by the State on a proposal from the Council of Ministers......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So I hope, indeed, that the solutions that are being sought do not cover a short period of time and that what we are doing today under the Energy Act does not cover the period of the next six months or a year, after which we need a change, but to be permanent. For this reason, I would also like to argue with the importer why the period under point is reduced. Three out of six out of three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. And the third line is Nikolai Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stankov, we have already watered down the issue of municipalities. Today, in my constituency, we have come to the dawn with the news that street lighting will pass on to some savings mode and, more precisely, 30 minutes less light will shine, and this thing has been presented as a result of high electricity prices and so on. In this case, it is about a slight change in the time in which street lighting shines in relation to the extension of the day. Let's stop saying some things, and it's not even half-truths, let's stop passing the blame for mismanagement of the local government on us, and I hope this topic will be discussed for the last time in the discussion about the KEWRC. This topic has nothing to do with it, it is being worked on and this simply has no place in the discussion about KEWRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u266	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only did not get an answer to my question relating to § 3, and I hope the importers at the next point will tell me why we are switching three digits six in § 3. Mr. Karimansky, thank you for the answer you gave me. I have one concern "I consider myself a person who can speak on the topic...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Kirova and I certainly agree on what you said. I refer to my colleague Angov, who I have also treated with respect to my colleague since you are from the Plovdiv region, and I am from Burgas, you should also know that your mayor as soon as the beginning of the week has gone out to the media and said: "Although the electricity bills related to the street lighting of Plovdiv municipality are three and a half times higher than the old accounts, the mayor as mayor will not be able to turn out the lights so that he can take care of the citizens so that he does not jump the crime in order not to have to have to have more demands. So we're not talking about a failure of the local authorities, we're looking for a joint solution. Once again, I ask you for humility, which we will certainly achieve as a common level at the moment when the European Commission sends its opinion on the Bill. According to my so modest information, there are already complaints from non-governmental organisations before the European Commission, which has the clear mind and the opinion that there is no way, and at least there are no arguments why you terminate the mandate of the current commissioners, and why does the Law not come into force when these acting commissioners do not run out of mandate? So I suggested that during the Energy Commission one of you recognize him, because we see that all the texts proposed by the Coalition GERB-SDS are not accepted. So I appeal to you once again: there is still time until the final texts of the Law are adopted, think about amending the bill in such a way that the Energy Act to treat the current commissioners, to apply the Law to them after the expiry of their mandate, by which they have been elected again by an active parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u268	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. To speak, Toma Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You motivated me to speak up. 5, in which there is a very strong reduction of the criteria for members of the KEWRC so strongly that even I, who do not understand anything about this work, may run and even cover some of them. Again, I do not understand anything and this leads me to the conclusion that these criteria are reduced because you already know who you want to offer as a member of the KEWRC. It does not meet the current higher criteria and you lower the criteria so that it can meet, and this will most likely be understood in three days. But you're making a curved account. Because you believe in your own propaganda, you think we crave the KEWRC. Now I will tell you the truth, although you may not believe it, but you will believe me in a few months when you will have to answer all the questions related to the KEWRC, because you are currently taking it. We never wanted to have people in KEWRC, and we didn't have, for one very simple reason: this is the body that raises electricity prices and water prices. Who needs and what exactly is the political benefit for someone to be responsible for the authority that carries out these unpleasant acts? For this reason, in 2015 we supported Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the KEWRC, who was a proposal of the Reformation bloc in the current "Democratic Bulgaria" - a long-standing MP, among other things, extremely authoritative, by "Democrats for strong Bulgaria" - a person who dealt with this topic and as a MP. And for the next five years, I think you've done your duty with dignity. But we never wanted people there. You want it now because you think there's some scary thing out there, I can't think of another word, I'll tell you. There's nothing there, you know! And you're going to be very disappointed at what you're doing right now, and you're doing it by inertia, as you do in all the other authorities, you're gathering, you're haggling hard bargains and you're absconding at some secret meetings that are so secret that they're then understood after two days at coalition councils, and you're distributing your portions. That's what you're doing! And now you've reached the KEWRC and you've sat down, you've bargained there to take one, the other to take another, and you think you've done a scary thing. But since you are short of footage, you have obviously decided to lower the criteria so that everyone, whatever your formula is, is there -- 4-4-2-2, on this form, by which you have distributed all the committees in Parliament, all the delegations in Parliament and all the other bodies you have reached, now you have other such bodies... Everything goes like this. Delkate! But in this case, you're mistaken. Here you should have, if you had a little more perspective thinking, give it to the opposition this and by raising the price of electricity, yelling: "GERB are guilty!" And now, colleagues, even though you are four parties, we will seek responsibility from.. We continue the Change..... because you are the flagship of this quadruple coalition and you also think such schemes. You will bear the responsibility from now on to raise the current by four pennies! Congratulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u270	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Hristo Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u271	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, I cannot agree with your opinion on the specific changes and the reduction of the criteria. By the way, they are for a future period and for a future composition of the KEWRC and not for the one currently subject to election, as any self-respecting lawyer will tell you that all the rules or projects that are being voted on are adopted on the basis of the legislation in force at the time of their submission, not of the necessary, not of the past, but of what is currently in force. That is, the criteria for the selection of the KEWRC, which have been tabled, the proposals they must meet, are those which acted at the end of yesterday. So what we're doing right now is about another procedure, not the one that's going on right now. If the applications submitted yesterday do not meet the requirements of the Law to date, there is no other option but to end this procedure and start a new one, and this will be a management failure. I do not understand, in general, what is the meaning of this whole law at the moment, given that the deadline for nomination of applications expired yesterday and the applications had to comply with the Energy Act as it is yesterday and not as we are currently looking at. So if the applications are not in line, then the procedure must be terminated. If the applications are in line, move forward. Right now it's about some next crew that's not on the agenda at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u272	Eva Miteva for a line and then Ivan Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u273	Mr. Bikov, are you the one who will talk about reducing the criteria and the internship when 2020. On 19 June, there was a procedure for the election of the Chair and members of the KEWRC. On June 26th, the Law was changed with a requirement of 10 years of professional service? seven years in the energy sector, and you're reducing it to five years?! On 3 July, and therefore, Mr. Dobrev, the deadline for proposals in the rules of procedure is 14 days, because on 3 July the deadline for proposals is over, is a proposed person - Plamen Mladenovski of GERB, who has only five years of experience in the field of energy. Are you going to talk about reducing the requirements for internship when, under open procedure and after a scandal in the public space, you withdrew your candidate and then withdrew your candidate in the field of energy?! For this reason, there is no elected president and member in the field of energy! Then on July 10th, you launched a new procedure with a deadline for a proposal, Mr. Dobrev, five days! So, very please, when accusations are made from here, carefully read and look at all procedural rules, all amendments to the Law, all the more so that it is clear here how the procedure has been initiated, the procedural rules have been adopted, there are requirements set out in the procedural rules to which the candidates are required, they will be looked at in the relevant committee when the selection starts. So I think there is no dispute as to the texts, how they are implemented and what requirements the candidates must meet. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u274	Thank you. The third line of Ivan Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bikov, you are a good speaker, no one can deny it, but I think you made a political mistake with an unwitting confession that you made in your speech, namely the involuntary recognition that you did not want to have people in the KEWRC because you talked about responsibility and how you carried it. You didn't want to have people in the KEWRC so you wouldn't be responsible! And since I will waste time in Parliament, and I should not do so, to give you other examples in which you do not want to be responsible for your governance and everything you have done in it. You know very well, however, that you hide your colleagues and management well, but here you accidentally let loose in terms of responsibility and that you did not want the KEWRC, because you have to determine the prices of electricity and make important decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u276	Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u277	Dear Mr. Chenchev, I will remind you that the KEWRC is an independent body and on this line we will not want to be responsible for the work of an independent body. He has to take responsibility for himself. You are currently trying to take it on manual control, as Prime Minister Kiril Petkov started giving orders to the KEWRC as early as a month ago and giving them on television. I will call on you, instead of addressing us, to turn to your temporary committee, which is high time to come up with a report on the work that has been done last month, and ultimately to accept this report, at least to see that something is done for this month..................................................................... With regard to Mrs. Miteva, well, I agree with your finding, but I will repeat: if you claim that the summer of 2020 we have lowered the criteria, then I repeat to you that you are now lowering them further. That's what you're doing. That's what you're doing. And you're against our lowering of criteria, but you're against your lowering of criteria, which is bigger than ours. Why? Because I'm telling you again, your solitaire is lining up on other lines. He didn't line up as an independent regulator, he lined up 4-4-2-2. This is the formula in energy and in all other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u278	Thank you. Mr. Dobrev, you have a chance to make a statement if you want to. [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u279	What a personal explanation, I didn't speak! [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u280	No, Eva Miteva has reason, Mr. Dobrev. Besides, you should be hurting her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u281	I was affected by a line that wasn't to me, and it was to Mr. Bikov, as I recall, and I see, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Miteva, you were an expert legal advisor to the Energy Commission at the time when I was chairman, and you helped write all the texts. If you have any claims to any of the proposals, it was nice to say them then, at least you were an accomplice in writing these texts. From this point of view, I don't understand your claim to me. However, I sincerely hope that your statement from your party has written you red dots and written you a political asset in the next election for members of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Reply from MP Iva Miteva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u282	For speech are recorded Alexander Nenkov, Hristo Gadzhev, Stanislav Anastasov, Rositsa Kirova and Nastimir Ananiev. To speak, Ramadan Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, an interesting debate, of course. I'm glad the government is listening, but there's no response. The only reaction we've heard so far is, "Well, what you've been doing, we're gonna do it, too. " If that's how you're gonna run things, colleagues, there's no point in changing the old ones. I see that whatever we propose, you have decided to change with this bill all the conditions with a single objective... how and in what way to settle in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with a clear awareness that you will do all that is necessary to reduce the price of electricity. In fact, I was surprised to see Prime Minister Kiril Petkov last night if it was not a pity in this difficult situation, if something happened to the difficult situation, it would happen so that we would take derogations from the European Union and then it would reduce the price. So he's willing to have something very serious to cut the price of electricity. Colleagues, that the Prime Minister stand on this stand and say that he will reduce the price of electricity, well, to put it mildly unacceptable. It's not the Prime Minister's job. It is not even the job of the MPs to set a price for energy. Of course, the Prime Minister and you as political formation have a program. At least get out on that stand and tell me what you see in politics! How and in what way will you develop policy in the sector of....................................................................................................... What GERB did before, related to the criteria in the previous speech I said to you, I will now repeat it: there was a long debate on how and in what way to have continuity, because if we were still holding 10 years of internship in energy for those high services to occupy, then I remember saying that besides Mr. Tasco Ermenkov there is no one else to run. Because he had the most internship. That's why we did everything we could to reduce the years of internship so that you young people, when you come to manage, have the opportunity to run and join the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. That was the idea. At that time GERB worked together with Mr. Hristo Ivanov, together with Mr. Hristo Ivanov, and could not find the right approach how and in what way the term of office of the President expired to pass the competition procedure, to choose the President and the next member, who also expired the term of office. Now, fellow Members, you, instead of making sure that you do not get into the eyes of the criminal procedures of the European Union, try to understand BSP before the mandates of the members of the Commission expire, but at the same time try to do so that Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's colleagues understand, I do not know why you stopped at three paragraphs... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u284	Here you are, Mr. Atalay. I'm just reminding you, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u285	Yeah, five minutes. Thank you. I'll remind you that the next one you're going to leave is on the will. It's probably due to rebirth. [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "This gesture was to you. "]] Look, colleagues, yesterday I asked the question and today I still expect an answer: how did you think such a commission could work without an economist? An economist who should give an opinion on all the monopoly proposals how and how investments will develop! As I understand it, the current candidate was either a chief accountant or an IS resource worker. If you're counting on him, then I'm asking you the question: how did you decide you didn't need a lawyer? I do not want to enter § 6 now, where you say even more that after the adoption of this bill you will remove all those with legal experience and internship economists. Who will remain on this committee? Who will remain on this committee?! If you have anything against the proposed candidate then by "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" if only for the sake of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" or only because of GERB you do all these outrageous things, it is not necessary! After not a year, both the lawyer and the economist finishes their term. You're going to offer your own because you want to go inside. In fact, you've removed the president from his position to offer a representative to the Commission. You remove the opposition from having no opportunity to obtain information or in any way knowing that this independent Commission will also have the confidence of the opposition. You don't want this committee to have the opposition's trust. You want this committee just by saying Mr. Kiril Petkov: you will reduce the price, they stand peacefully the next day and reduce the price. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] Now you do just like GERB, I told you. I think you went out, even Mrs. Miteva just came out and said: "Yes, we offer you these criteria, but you offered them before. " - Isn't that right? My respect to Mrs. Miteva. You should know that a large part of the bills in the National Assembly of Bulgaria have passed through its hands and I have no claim for its qualification. Now she's on the other side, already in the political formation that should have her commissioner, she has no way of pushing her on either side, she has to come out and say anyway. Colleagues, do not touch the Commission, do not remove the lawyer, do not bother to remove the economist. Because, colleagues, these all employees, my respect for the employees in whom Mr. Tabutov has become so mature, understood that they are experts, but the decisions in the Commission to be responsible for everything that will happen after the decision, as it has been adopted since 1 July with an increase, with a reduction, with investment, with the possibility of somehow stopping, of trying to influence the work of this Commission, all these decisions are taken by the commissioners. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u286	Ten minutes, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u287	I can clearly see that you are listening carefully, but do not perceive. Since you canceled or decided that you would go to make this committee not work, it would not be in that qualification, an opportunity, in that form, so that it could send messages to society, because you are telling the public right now: we have no confidence in this committee, we will appoint another one, which the opposition will not trust. You don't create security. You're not creating stability. You do not allow the European Council not to hold you responsible for why and for what reason you are spoiling a working structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u288	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u289	Mr. Atalay, you are very active on the subject of energy. Basically, you're the only one who speaks from your group. There is great suffering for the lawyer Remzi Osman, who is currently in the Commission. So let us remind Bulgarian citizens and fellow MPs how Remzi Osman proved to be in this committee at all. In 2015 you are doing the Energy Act and inside you are increasing the members of the KEWRC to nine people, explicitly writing that there should be a lawyer. Accordingly, the lawyer is the Remzi Osman you're bringing in. Here, of course, the question arises: what kind of lawyer is Remzi Osman? He graduated from the Faculty of Law at the UNWE in 1997. As far as I was looking for, I could not find his legal internship, whatever he was, because he was always a member of parliament. So this roar about Remzi Osman and about the lawyer, when you made this change, you have to bring in lawyers, then this guy, how can I say, is a little pathetic. Besides, you threw a line at Mrs. Miteva. I know her when she was a lawyer at the National Assembly. She was an expert lawyer. I know how many times she's had to fix it, let's not say nonsense, I'll say nonsense, in the laws that MPs offer. [[DPS line]] And how she couldn't stop political pressure because she was working as a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u290	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Alexander Nenkov and then Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u291	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u292	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I disagree with your statement in the part where you compare today's debate and today's bill, which we are dealing with, with what GERB did when they had the opportunity, had a majority. I'll tell you why. The very fact that the Commission currently has representatives, experts who are proposed by different parliamentary groups, not only by the ruling majority, both by your party and by the BSP, and by the United Patriarchs, so I think that by Volya, if memory serves me, I speak a little by heart here. This is a way of thinking that shows the difference between what the ruling majority is doing today and what we have done before. If honest colleagues are from both BSP and you, Mr. Atalay, and remind your colleagues, especially from "We continue the Change" in the Energy Commission to a large extent we have always tried to seek the compromise between different parties, to seek consensus. When we have voted on the election of presidents and members of the regulator, we have always complied with the will and opposition, and not because of anything else, not because we could not do and modify it as we please, but because we have sought how and in what way to strengthen the authority of this committee. That includes the opposition. If you haven't learned this lesson, you'll learn it later, colleagues from [[Replications between the MPs Lyubomir Karimanski and Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u294	Is there a third line? Mr. Tabutov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, let me just say that after reviewing the other regulatory authorities equivalent to the KEWRC in European countries, there are no legal requirements there. So these authorities in other countries also exist without these requirements. I don't think that's gonna be a problem for... [[Extreme lines between the MPs Lyubomir Karimanski and Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u296	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u297	...our Commission. Thank you. [[Extreme lines between the MPs Lyubomir Karimanski and Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u298	Quiet, please! Mr. Nenkov and Mr. Karimansky, please silence in the hall! If you have an argument, go outside and figure it out. Mr. Nenkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u299	This happens all the time. I don't have to put up with it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u300	I call on you, if you have a problem, go to the towers and solve it. [[(Replication by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov: In the towers, if we go out there, he won't like it.]] Mr. Atalay, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u301	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov, I'm talking about your first years when... [[Noise and lines between the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Come on, if you're gonna get into a fight, at least go outside and don't get your shit looked at. [[Noise and lines between the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Lyubomir Karimanski.]] I'm talking about your first years when... [[Noise and lines between the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Lyubomir Karimanski.]] You won't be able to handle him! [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] So, Mr. Nenkov, I'm talking about your first years, when you came so enthusiastic, you looked at us in blood, passed us, didn't even greet us. I thank the new colleagues, at least they greet us, but otherwise, when they come out, they whisper seriously. So it was a good thing that in some way you stayed for many years in government and realized that this government of this country is not only the work of the government, but also the opposition has a share in all this work. That's why I'm telling you. And they'll find out. But if they keep doing this, if they're gonna last 13 years, you're 12 driving... Mr. Toshko Hadjitodorov, I see that you have made a few remarks to me that I am concerned about the energy of the country. Because of the circumstances, I've dealt with it. You've been doing TV and that's why you're in the Committee on Culture. But the words you use, and the actions you make, to say of a lawyer who was five mandates chairman of a committee, a pathetic man, then I really think of a parable from Kardzhali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u302	I didn't say that about him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u303	You said he was pathetic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u304	I said what he's doing is pathetic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u305	You said he was pathetic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u306	The address wasn't to Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u307	Well, that's what I heard. Then my address will not be to you either, for the parable from Kardzhali is: for every man's intelligence is viewed according to the number of buttoned buttons on his shirt. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u308	Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u309	Mr. Chairman, I have a very gentlemanly, friendly request for you. I won't be very sharp, at least because we're neighbors and tomorrow, when we meet on the street, we can say hello again. Please, however, when I am referring to Mr. Toshko, I forgot your last name, I apologize, so Mr. Toshko...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u310	Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u311	...when he makes personal attacks on people, whether they're in the room or not, interrupt him. Because this is a very clear sign, Mr. Chairman, that the man who came out of the stands no longer has any arguments at all and has gone into the field of personal. Because he can't find any argument to confirm his point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u312	What wasn't true, what?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u313	Unfortunately, it is such a one that I will not give qualifications what approach, but it is also found in society, we are uncomfortable when we see it on the street, and there is it on the street because we allow it, Mr President, and here to give such an example. As for Mr. Ramzi Osman, he was long before Mr. Tosko in the public life of Bulgaria and God gave him life and health, he will be there for a long time and then. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u314	A statement? Alexander Nenkov, come in. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u315	Mr. Chairman! First, I'm gonna do a procedure. I notice a not very facial trend from a parliamentary group, and it started yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u316	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u317	It is to you to make a remark and to pay attention to colleagues, at least when calling from the place, and remind them that in fact the tribune is where we express our views and our thoughts. Whether they like it or not, it doesn't matter, because it's democracy, it's parliamentaryism. You have to put up with other people's opinions as much as you don't like them. It makes me feel bad, though, that we're kind of trying to cross the line here and get into some personal attacks. Yesterday, in a personal capacity, they tried to hurt me, and it's very difficult to do that. I do not want to go into the details of the Energy Committee again in the same way for a colleague of mine. In this regard, Mr. Chairman, I am really asking you to pay attention to this thing because you are the person who should do it. I guess any one of us in this room can cross the line of good tone, but it's not necessary. I think this will in no way contribute to a better debate. Whoever found out, didn't they?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u318	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. This applies to all colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u319	Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague, I'm sorry, I didn't look at the dashboard and I didn't remember your name because I really don't know it, I'm sorry about the little one or the second one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u320	Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u321	Anastasov, yes. Which of what I said about Remzi Osman was not true that 2015 were increased members of the KEWRC and there is a requirement to have a lawyer, is that not true? What is not true? that he has graduated 1997 Law Faculty of UNWE, which is generally known for its legal glory? What's not true is, did he have an internship as a lawyer, or was he an MP? What's not true? [[Deputy to be not an internship]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u322	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I am really going to try to get into the nature of the subject at issue, why did it really come to this bill that we are looking at today? What's my reading? I don't know if the word "grunting" is a word of the year, but the word "gone" has also picked up speed in recent months, colleagues. And in this regard, I would like one of the importers, however, if he could come out and tell us what analysis these proposals are coming up with? And I ask you very much that the analysis is not related to economy. I'll tell you why at least this is not serious. The Energy Committee, if we were to be people who are looking for how to strengthen its capacity, how to make it more independent, how to have better expertise, the first thing I think we should do is invite the Regulator to a hearing, hear what their problems are, see if they need anything. Because that's what we've always done in our years. By the way, as much as it may not seem likely to you, in the dark years in which GERB has ruled, we have done so. That is why I just asked our colleagues from BSP who have always been the fiercest oppositionists to Mr. Dragomir Stoynev, Tasco Ermenkov is not in this room to come out and say whether he is or not. We had to first analyse what the Commission's problems were, do they need anything? financial, logistical or any other support. No, we didn't do that, guys. I don't think there's anyone in this room right now, not outside this room, not to know what you want to do. And I told you yesterday at the Commission very simply: do not do these.. I do not know what word to use. Come on, I don't want to use any offensive qualifications. Equilibristikas. They decrease from 9 to 5 members, and the lawyer, notice, and exactly the economist, proposed by the groups of GERB and DPS, are dropping out. Then there is one member who is uncomfortable with you, and you will have to draw lots so that he can drop out so that you can control the Commission. And I don't think there's any argument here. I am interested, however, in why you do not make the more honest version of this yesterday I proposed it to the Commission. Once upon a time the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, then the SEWRC, was elected by the Council of Ministers from the executive power briefly. Do it this way. This is going to be a lot more honest than what you're doing right now, because there's no one you can fool. And no, colleagues, we do not want to have control, nor do we suffer for any member of the Regulator that we have proposed. With one member, colleagues, for example in this committee, what are we going to do? Nothing. But it is still a good taste to make the opposition a participant in the decision-making process, and it is also good for the government. That's important to know. We don't suffer. And it wasn't my colleague Bikov who got confused. No, we didn't want, colleagues, to have control of this committee. Because it's a sensitive subject. Because almost every government has a point where for objective reasons, not because we like it, not the Prime Minister, not the President, not the Parliament, just for objective reasons, there are times when the price of electricity, of gas, of water is required to rise. But what you're doing is a gross mistake. And in fact, the role of the opposition today is to tell you this thing, do you like it, do you understand it, do you realize it?! I believe that there are enough intelligent people, especially in "We are continuing the Change" in the ITN, which have not been in parliament until this... (Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria: "BSP!") No, I'm not talking about BSP because you've been in Parliament for a long time and you've had a lot of experience. ...who realize perhaps to some extent what we are telling them, but because of the political situation, the desire of some other people, perhaps outside this room, you have taken this approach. I want to ask you something else. And why do I really think today's vote and this haste came to light? What happened to the Commission, which had to analyse energy problems, to make proposals for legislative changes, for measures to address the situation with high energy prices? What happened? Where is this committee? Here, Mr. Ribarsky will ask him to come out and say. Where did this committee go? It's just over. She never got back together, or maybe she got back together once, and it's over. There's not even a report, guys! You want to analyze it, don't you? Well, analyze it. And in this committee it would also be very nice if we called the Regulator, asked the questions and saw what their problems were. But you're following the opposite approach. You think when you have control of the regulator... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, if I may have a few more minutes, since we are looking at three paragraphs in one. I won't overdo it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u324	Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. Let's stick to the proposed texts. The Commission is not one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u325	No, we're just looking at three paragraphs in one, and usually one paragraph is made, proposals are made, each of these paragraphs is given the time to the groups. I won't overdo it for two or three minutes. In fact, this committee had to do this analysis, see what it needed. But you go the other way because you think that if you have control of the Commission, you will say with a stick: you will not raise prices, you will raise prices, which is not right. But you do know why? Because by including the Commission that you have done, in fact for me it failed because it did not come up with anything concrete, with no opinion, you have a problem with the high electricity prices, the gas, which are largely objective, I dare say that the Regulator objectively reasoned on them, you did not take any action by the government to compensate for business and citizens, you were late, although one of your colleagues from Okay, well, we're almost in February. Yesterday I heard Kiril Petkov say that February would be better because there would be compensation for December. [[(Replies from]] Colleagues, I think you really understand that if each one of you is in business if they give any support after two months, it may be too late to get it. You're going the other way, but you're gonna make a mistake. You'll be wrong! I'll tell you how we handled it. When there have been objective circumstances that force the regulator because it implements a law, it has control of the European regulator, it has objective criteria and regulations that it moves on, it does not invent, it does not look at the ceiling to set any prices. But when there was such a problem, I'll tell you how we did, no matter how bad we are in your eyes. We have gathered together and have sought legislative changes such as to enable the regulator not to raise or balance the price of either electricity or gas, or water services. That's how I think it should be done. Not the kind of approach you're taking. In fact, it is not a minus for the opposition, it is a plus for the opposition, because, as we mentioned earlier, all responsibility will now be yours and nobody else's. And whatever happens from now on, you won't have any excuse. I'm sorry, colleagues, that you don't understand what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u326	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev, then Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mitev, are you for a line? For procedure. Is there another one for the procedure? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u327	Mr. Nenkov, I do not agree with you that this is about savings of expenditure cuts or whatever. The ruling majority has already proved in these one or two months that there are no such objectives. You saw only 10 days ago that the ministers could not gather in the seats in plenary. The Minister of Interior and the Minister of Social Policy shared a chair, they didn't have enough chairs...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u328	Mr. Dobrev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u329	In the ministries... What about a disagreement with my colleague, Nenkov? The ministries have appointed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u330	That's not the point, Mr. Dobrev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u331	On the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u332	Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u333	...because it's not about any cutbacks! There are no layoffs anywhere! There are four or five deputy ministers in the ministries, they can't find any offices for them. They're moving the experts, they're hustling them into the same room to free up offices for the deputy ministers, that is, it's not about any layoffs. The only thing we're talking about is taking control of the KEWRC. However, colleagues need to know, and I think that you have explained this well to them that they should be responsible subsequently for these decisions, because by taking control of the KEWRC, the decisions of the KEWRC will lie purely politically entirely on their shoulders. I hope, however, that these decisions are not politically dictated because you know that Bulgaria still has international arbitrations. Bulgaria won three arbitrations, not to turn out to lose arbitration because of your actions at the moment, which arbitrations are very expensive, colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u334	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Come in for a second line, Mr. Ivanov. Will there be a third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Nenkov, my line is for you. I do not agree with one part of your speech with the final. The negative with this ruling decision being made today in this House is not a plus for the opposition. The big minus, Mr. Nenkov, is for the Bulgarian business and citizens. Untimely management decisions, which I don't know why have been delayed for the second month, sweeping, do not lead to a drop in inflation. The main inflationary pressure is reflected, naturally, on citizens. It will pass, unfortunately, through bankruptcies and bankruptcy of Bulgarian companies and employers. But correct me if I'm wrong, basic goods and services are rising, and if there are no timely management decisions, and not those sought during the control of the Regulator, then what mechanism will the state have in interfering with the suppression of this inflation and the return of the old prices, even if business is compensated after two or three months, and I stress, this business that has survived, which has survived the prices of these electricity carriers. So the minus is for the Bulgarian citizens, unfortunately, and for the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u336	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I'm a little worried about how much you've been replicated by GERB lately, I hope there isn't any confusion in the group?! But I see that everyone in the opposition mourns the reduction of the requirements for the composition of KEWRC, but if these requirements were raised, as were written the requirements for public procurement during GERB for a particular person or company, then you would regret that the requirements were made for someone specific, it does not satisfy. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The interesting thing that you said and your colleague also said before you: "We don't want control in this body. " - Yes, yes, in this one you probably don't want, in others you have and want! And your colleague said: "Why don't you give it to GERB! "We don't give, we offer and the National Assembly chooses. And after choosing, I was also surprised that you have both in GERB and in DPS people proposed by you in the KEWRC itself, they should be independent and not convenient. Regarding nominations, it was open to everyone to nominate people, to propose candidates to compete with their CVs, with their visions. Maybe you don't have that kind of footage? But you could have provided one, not said: "Yes, everyone has done from the groups which proposal you wanted. " - You should have done yours and shown that you have a better candidate. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u338	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Nenkov? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ananiev! We are debating and doing lines among colleagues in GERB, because you are simply silent, you are not talking, you have no motives! And on that note, I'm going to Mr. Delyan Dobrev's line. He said I was wrong because of the savings and that the motive for the proposed bill is, well, I'm reading the motives! And for the reason that no one else comes out and says anything differently, how to strengthen the KEWRC, how to become more independent, how to increase its expertise, remove the proposed by the GERB groups, the DPS, to whom you want another, but to make the Commission work better, to have more confidence. Because trust is so built when a large group, especially of the political class, believes that there are people there who are experts and have their sufficient expertise, experience and make their decisions as they are objective and not as we want them to. That's the difference, Mr. Ananiev! And if you didn't like what GERB offered so much or why we didn't offer, you should have made the criteria now much higher, much higher. Bring them back at 10 years old, do it! I told you what the problem was. You should have adopted the Energy Act in which you would accept the Commission to be appointed by the Council of Ministers. This is the easiest solution, not to make some crows here, with some suggestions, with a decrease in composition, with a reduction in criteria, because it's not fair, and I don't think people are that fooled and think you're doing some great reform. If we had to go even further, we should now not be looking at how to manage our Commission today, but at what proposals have been made by the Energy Commission because we have a serious problem with energy prices. Mr. Ribarski's temporary committee should have gone out with a report to say what measures we should take as parliament, the Council of Ministers as executive and we as parliamentarians should vote on what was proposed if we wanted to make it possible to improve the state of citizens, businesses and they would feel that someone was thinking about them. No, they don't have that feeling, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, because Mr. Kiril Ananiev asked me to tell Nastimir Ananiev not to make any mistake, that, of course, in the circle of the joke. But things are very, very serious, colleagues, you don't appreciate them! And as far as arbitration is concerned, Mr. Dobrev, I don't think colleagues think that far ahead. Their problem is now how to administratively ease things. I'm listening to how we hope that February. March prices of electricity and gas will fall, only with hopes and with thumbs crossed will not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u340	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Bojankov. Then Mr. Mitev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, just a day ago, I was in a place that left a lasting mark in my mind. A hundred thousand have lost their lives, including most of the local Jewish population. Tens of thousands in just one day, Jews, Roma, civilians, women, children. The horrors of war are still remembered to this day, but today there is a risk that populists and nationalists will face peace. And today in the same country in Ukraine, the population is on the brink of a military conflict. Therefore, we have a particular responsibility - a whole generation who has witnessed these horrors - will be gone, a new one is coming, and our responsibility is to convey the message, to pass on the lessons of the past, so that they do not repeat themselves in the future. Our country has seen Bulgaria, it has seen a lot. The reason for national pride is the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews. However, we also remember fascism in the Bulgarian lands. We also remember the anti-fascist movements. We remember the thousands of anti-fascists who lost their lives fighting fascism. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Today, however, our courage to save a human life has degenerated in agility to photograph human misery, to upload it to social networks, to share, to be angry, but there, virtually. And today there is a risk of repeating history, so I will end with the words of the renowned lawyer Christian Takov, who said: "The evil dorm in each of us! Our civilization shell is very fragile and can crack in the most unexpected place, somewhere to watch over ourselves first! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u342	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. For the procedure Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u343	Dear Mr. President, we have seen that the subject has run out, we have started to talk about who sits where, which chairs, so I would like to propose an end to the debate at your discretion, of course, before or after the recordings run out. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u344	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a reverse offer. Clearly, I did not get an answer to the question relating to § 3 of the Bill, no one said why six we replaced it with three. However, once again, on this bill, to propose that the debate be terminated without any clear reason, because it is clear that things seem more set up. Give your colleagues at least a chance to speak, even more so, at a time when they need to polish everything you've done the last few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u346	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. I put to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal to end the debate on these and the paragraph. Colleagues online? Mr. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u347	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u348	Mr. Andrej Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u350	Desislava Taneva? Is Desislava Taneva here?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u351	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u352	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u354	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u355	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u356	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u358	And Tsvetan Enchev? Is Tsvetan Enchev here? Voices in the hall 159 Members of Parliament and 6 Online? 165: for 111 in the hall and 3 online? 114 in total, against in the hall 48 and online 3? 51 total, abstentioned. The motion is accepted. For a statement are recorded Hristo Gazhev, Stanislav Anastasov, Rositsa Kirova and Nastimir Ananiev, so we will listen to the colleagues. We'll be listening to the coworkers who signed up. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u359	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u360	We're continuing the Change, please, Mr. Ikonomov, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u361	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! January 27th is an important day today for the 76th time we honor the victims of the Holocaust. It is a day of honor, but also a day of reflection on hatred and humanity, for the cost of human life. Bulgaria expresses its empathy for the victims and honors the memory of the dead because anti-Semitism strikes at the heart of our values: humanity, religious freedom, equality. Anti-Semitism is a poison to our society. It's up to all of us to fight him to prevent him and root him out. Bulgaria, as part of the European family, maintains the position that we should never remain silent to hatred and harassment. But we also know that anti-Semitism is not buried deep in the past. The CoVID-19 pandemic showed how quickly anti-Semitic conspiracy myths could spread. Disinformation and denial of facts are all over the web with anti-Semitic stories. In recent years, we have also seen an increasing number of attacks on Jewish communities. This is more important than ever today. The last survivors die and for many young people the Holocaust events seem to belong to the distant past. The Holocaust survivors overcame the need to forget and talk about the need to prevent the repeat of history. Their stories are evidence of the immeasurable power of the Jewish people, their strength of endurance, of the will to survive. We have to keep telling their stories. Today we have a suitable occasion to express our gratitude and gratitude to our ancestors, parliamentarians from the twenty-fiveth National Assembly. In the difficult and cruel time of World War II in a letter to Prime Minister Bogdan Filov, 43 MPs said they could not allow the deportation of Bulgarian Jews because, I quote, this would be a miscarriage and with severe consequences for our country measure. So let us remember days like these, so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. Let's remember! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u362	Mr. Gazhev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u363	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, Mr President, thank you for following Parliament's practice and rules for allowing those recorded for speech to speak. Unfortunately, there is beginning to be a major regression of this National Assembly when the majority has nothing to say or remain guilty of asking for an end to the debates. So let's hope so, but this thing, unfortunately, will repeat itself, at least that's my prognosis. Specifically, the three paragraphs we're looking at. Now there were a few of the few speakers from the government who said: "Well, look, you see, GERB did bad 2020, proposing changes to the Energy Act, which reduced the criteria. Now the change continues, as we are doing worse than GERB and we offer weaker criteria for the selection of a member, only there is a small difference. The deadline for submitting applications was then 14 days, as was correctly noted, and it expired after the promulgation of the changes. At the moment, the situation is the opposite. The term is over, the Law is yet to be seen, that is, the part which is in § 5 for the internship and for the requirements of the President of the KEWRC is currently untenable, that is to say, you are proposing not the one that is currently to be considered, but a future President to meet these criteria rather than those currently in the Law. However, if this is not the case, since I have not met the biographies and documents that have been submitted to the National Assembly, if it turns out that these two nominations do not meet the current criteria, but meet the future, we will cause a little legal madness in this way. And if it does not respond, this means that the procedure must be terminated, a new procedure initiated, new procedural rules adopted and so on, and new applications submitted, which means why we have been wasting the time of the Assembly with them for one week now, by the way, proclaimed as one of the urgent measures of this government and this majority of the European Parliament has not been happening for the second month. By the way, on the first day on which we swore in this Chamber, proposals for procedural rules could also be tabled and the procedure for the election of a chairman and a member of the KEWRC, which was announced also with the establishment of the Temporary Commission for one of the urgent tasks of the majority, and two months later we are still at zero. I guess that's how urgent matters work. Now, while two more members of the KEWRC are being shortened in the following paragraphs, the Commission is being reduced. Okay, this is your right, it is the majority's right, as is the majority's right to elect a chairman and a member of the KEWRC, those with expired mandates, and to bear responsibility for them. Not to mention that lowering the criteria, how much capacity will lower the criterion is another issue, but what impresses and leaves a bad feeling in everyone outside, not only in this room, is that all of this is being done for certain people, so that certain results can be achieved, and not to achieve all the requests that were given especially during the election campaign for a changed model, for greater competition and greater competitiveness between the different ones in the choice of other institutions. By the way, by the way, the Rules of Procedure were, for a reason, uniform rules for the selection of the various bodies elected by the National Assembly, so that the change really ended here. This is, by the way, the first law that has been tabled by MPs from the ruling majority that we are looking at. Everyone else we've looked at so far was from the Council of Ministers. This also shows the way in which you intend to continue from here forward, evidently with the deterioration of practices from previous National Assemblys, which you yourself have designated as sinners, now you are doing them, repeating them, even building up. From now on, honourable Members, once we have adopted this law and these paragraphs, from now on, all responsibility for the KEWRC is yours, all responsibility for energy regulation, all responsibility for the price regulation of Bulgarian citizens, domestic consumers for the prices at which electricity is sold from RES and so on, becomes yours. By the way, you have also crushed the public discussion because you do not want to hear what external experts will say on the subject and they say for a reason that this law opens the door for conflict of interest in the KEWRC and about opportunities for corruption. That's your legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u364	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines to Mr. Gajev's statement? I won't. Stanislav Anastasov is listed for speech. He's not in the gym. [[National Representative Stanislav Anastasov enters the hall.]] Mr. Anastasov, you're registered for speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An interesting debate has been formed in this Chamber. But I'll allow myself a comment. Yes, the Rules really allow for a procedure to end the debate. Colleagues, however, when you have a majority, this is a sign of weakness. Once upon a time, it was GERB. You're following in their footsteps, and now you're succumbing to their weaknesses. Don't do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u366	Mr. Anastasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u367	The word parliament means parlare, comes from talking. If you don't want to talk here, we're gonna have to come up with a new name. On the subject, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry about the trip. Now, I can't help but look at this topic along with your previous and your request for expertise. You claimed that you would want more people, experts, non-party colored at least with these requests you came to power. Now what did we do? We left as narrow as possible the circle of those who could offer, and we expanded the extensive expertise, because the broad expertise meant to be that, and that, and that, and one of many you did. You have made it possible for people with very minimal expertise in any of the spheres described by you to be placed in these posts. And another thing, because GERB has abused, and you have done the same thing as them, colleagues, to say that yes, we are MPs, parliamentary groups and we can also offer citizens experts. Now, don't think that an expert who holds his independence will not realize that a party or a parliamentary group is not going to be party colored. That's not the reality, unfortunately. That's what the media does, but it's a fact. At the moment we deprived the real experts of the possibility that they could represent the affected countries of the energy crisis, represent the Bulgarian municipalities. The worst, by cutting off the President, you fellow Members, have violated Montesco's principle of separation of powers. It is precisely when we make an independent body that there must be a maximum of many representatives of all the authorities in order for them to exercise mutual control because there is no other guarantee of independence. As Churchill said, "Democracy is not the best, but better is not invented by it until now. " And look at the justification: We are not doing anything wrong, we are doing just as GERB were doing, please do not use it anymore, because GERB did not do good things. If you do as they do, you should be fully aware that you are doing nothing good. I, by the way, will allow myself to mention only Mr. Stefanov, he really showed very good expertise in both the Commission and the Chamber. Unfortunately, he shares this expertise only succinctly does not quote, does not compare. We did not bother to do a survey on parliamentary cooperation for other Member States of the European Union, there, by the way, and others involved, what practice they have on regulators. [[Reply by National Representative Stefanov]] . Yes, Mr. Stefanov, I am fully aware that you are aware of what you are doing right now! Alas! Because the other question now comes: who is politically responsible for these party-colored experts? Okay, ISN are a party, they're offering someone, they're gonna have their party responsibility for it. [[(Replies from]] And who's offering it on your part? Is it offered by the Social Democrats of Kamov to Konstantin Bachiiyski, the High European Class, who will bear the political responsibility for your two? If it's not the three of them, is it someone else's?! Yesterday we had a friendly conversation with a fellow Member of the majority, and he said: "Well, we ask: in the end what kind of people are you going to propose for this Commission, well, we don't really know. " I sincerely believe that you didn't know, just didn't tell you until last night, when you proposed it, because there is a risk to be sanctified, as with Schonov, as did GERB, and suddenly to confuse the accounts of the media-olligarchical circle of Prokopiev. [[Laughter, noise, lines and applause.]] By the way, this was not an attack on you, but on Prokopiev. I don't know why you recognize each other, but okay. I'm graduating, very briefly, colleagues, there's a principle of an Eastern sage, and I'm not gonna quote names so I don't get accused of bias, it's either look who you are or be what you look like. If you say you're going to do something and you say we're doing the same thing as GERB... [[(Replies from]] You said it, sir! You said: we do nothing different than what GERB does, ergo: what is wrong with doing?! On the contrary, you're doing very badly. So, either make some minimal effort to make a change today, you have had the unique opportunity to show respect for active citizens, for civil society, for branch organizations, for different associations, for different branches of power. You didn't take advantage of it, you did the same. The other choice is to continue on the path of GERB. Or some small change will be evident, for the moment the choice is to continue on the path of GERB and wait. As said by a prominent representative of GERB: who will hand us Prokopiev, he handed me several people. [[Relations from.. Continue Change..........................................]] But there's no way back. You have the chance at least, as the old people say, to learn from the mistakes of others, not from your own, and to do them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u368	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Svilensky, for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u369	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Anastasov, you are criticizing that someone has made an offer to end the debate, but you in your statement on § 3 did not say anything. You've said all sorts of other things, but under Paragraph 3 nothing. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria) and We continue the Change.)]] Paragraph 3 states:.. the figure 6 is replaced by 3... You are talking about lowering criteria, to set one-one, why didn't you, and you from GERB? Why didn't you offer some candidates with very high criteria that we now have on the basis of our proposals with the low criteria to accept your candidates? All morning you explain how someone lowers the criteria so that there are some candidates who are party-colored to have proposed five, ten candidates to discuss them in the Energy Committee, this is the public debate in Parliament. Why the President and the other NGOs couldn't propose, but because that's what the Constitution says. If you want to give him rights, give him a quota. He will propose to you, and we will reject them in the Commission. Is that what we're gonna do, or are we gonna accept them? If you want the President to have one, Mrs. Miteva told you very correctly, offer to have a quota of one, two, three as many as you want, and then he will have a position in the KEWRC, or we just have to waste time. Let's get back to what I said yesterday. You're waiting for 2:00 and the law not to be passed, only it's not gonna happen. The law will be passed today, at 2 p.m. or 2.30 p.m. or 3 p.m. until we accept it. No matter how many speeches, no matter how many lines and dodges you make on each other, on the doppelganger, at the end of the day, coalition government has the will to pass laws, not delay. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] And these laws will be passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u370	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? For the coat, Mr. Anastasov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u371	Mr. Svilensky, I'll start point by point. First of all, I didn't speak on Paragraph 3, because my colleague did. We are therefore a parliamentary group, not a single person to be a penkiller and to talk about everything. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky, we're talking three, four and five. By the way, we're talking about people who have a long parliamentary internship. It's a little weird that you're missing out on what's going on in the room. I hope you don't have any other work outside the gym. Colleagues, if you find it unpleasant to talk in the Chamber, I say to you again, at the beginning and GERB were very uncomfortable and did not want to listen. They just want to vote you can do it, Mr. Svilensky, do it! I have so far expressly abstained from including in this debate BSP and ITN, which are in a very delicate position at the moment, because they have squirmed the media machine of Prokopiev and know what this is about. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u372	Mr. Anastasov, please don't mention names.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u373	They are in the position to propose amendments to the Law, which are in his favor. I'm sorry you're so nervous just to make you, Mr. Svilensky, happy, I'll stop talking. We can all stop talking, just let go, just vote, and Mr... [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] What's your name? I see a nice clap. Colleague Atalay will support you again. Yeah, yeah. [[Noise and lines.]] I see you're quickly forgetting, and so they've forgotten, again I tell you, at last everyone is going to the same place, but now you're on the wave, you've got your self-esteem. Keep in mind that this is the moment of refraction, colleagues! Be healthy!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u374	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. To speak, Rositsa Kirova. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go back to the paragraphs we're looking at. I'm glad Mrs. Iva Miteva is in the room because I never doubted her expertise. For 20 years of service in the specialized administration of the National Assembly, an expert, an outstanding lawyer, so I am convinced that she will first explain to me which law are the requirements of those who submitted their documents to the Chair and member of the KEWRC yesterday. In fact, what requirements did they apply to each other and how will they be elected? I am addressing it because I have not received an answer from the importer in the Commission and the first viewing in the Commission and watching at second reading. I also asked this question in the Chamber at first reading and also did not receive an answer. And beyond all political talks, it is good to be clear the members we will choose in the place of those with expired mandates, what requirements they will meet. I also have questions, and for me it is not clear in the provisions that we introduce with art. Art. 59, Art. 59a, point (b) (i) of this Law. These are actually internship requirements. In the extended requirements for internship, is there no conflict of interest when someone who has been licensed under this law and has had an expert or more precise management position in this case, to apply for the head of the Commission, say, or a member of the KEWRC. And I really hope that we can get an answer to these questions so that we can respond adequately. I am convinced of one thing: we do not always have to disagree. And since I have no parliamentary experience as many of those who have spoken before, I am not aware that the principle here is that someone should propose, accommodate in state bodies, committees, regulators and courts and all kinds of things. And I don't think that this is how the Bulgarian Parliament should work, and I didn't expect that to be the expectations, but this is what I heard just now from one of the staff members in the governing coalition. I don't think we should do the law for anyone, we should do it on a principle basis, so that it works and provides Bulgarian citizens with what they expect of us as MPs, what they expect to happen in government, what we went to elections for several times. Because the citizens have clearly said one thing. And they said they didn't agree with many of the things that happened, but didn't fully trust any of the political formations that were present in this National Assembly. That's what they told us in the election, all three times we showed up. And another question again on these paragraphs: do we expect sanctions from the European Commission and who will ensure that there will be none? Because I just heard an argument from Mr. Tabutov, who said in terms of dropping lawyers and economists that he thought that wouldn't be a problem. We may think many things, but there is a practice which, if analysed in a comprehensive and non-unilateral manner, we could draw a reasoned conclusion, and what is more, that the Law gives us, and the Rules of the National Assembly, an opportunity to consult legislative changes before we bring them into the Chamber, with the relevant bodies of the European Commission, so that we may not be able to guess whether we will be sanctioned or not. I'm waiting for answers to my questions. I am convinced that we are all in a hurry to vote on nothing else, but because it is clear what the outcome of the vote will be. However, it would be nice if we did so in full clarity and quite normal argumentation by both those who make the proposals and those who do not support them or have any objections against them. Because, frankly, I feel quite uncomfortable for people I respect in this room and who will have to act in a way that doesn't respond to their personal understandings and expertise simply because that's the party rule. Maybe this has been done over the years. If you think it's right, keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u376	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev is listed for a statement. He's giving up his statement. We've finished recording the speeches, so we're going to vote. I will put first to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan to drop § 3. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u377	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u378	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u379	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u381	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u382	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u383	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u384	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u385	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u387	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u389	Thank you. They voted in the House 164 MPs and online 5: for 51 in the Chamber plus 2 online... 53 against 109 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 111 in total, 4 abstentions in the Chamber and 1 online. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on the import text. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u390	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u391	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u393	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u394	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u395	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u397	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u398	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u399	Against.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u400	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u401	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u402	Vote in Hall 169 MPs and 6 online " 175" total: in the room for 114, 2 online " 116" total, against 55 in the hall and 4 online "59" total abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan to drop § 4. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u404	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u405	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u406	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u408	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u409	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u410	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u411	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u412	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u414	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u415	Vote in the Chamber 173 and 6 online.. a total of 179: 54 in the Chamber and 3 online. 57 in total against 114 in the Chamber and 3 online.. 117 in total, abstentioned 5. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 4, as is the import text. Colleagues online again. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u416	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u417	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u419	Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u420	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u421	Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u423	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u425	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u426	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u427	Is Tsvetan Enchev here too? I can't see. Voices in the room 169 and 6 online The motion is accepted. There are two proposals to drop § 5, which are from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Zhecho Stankov and Rositsa Kirova, as well as from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan. I'll put them to a joint vote. We are voting on the motion to dismiss § 5. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u429	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u430	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u431	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u432	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u433	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u434	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u435	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u437	Tsvetan Enchev? Voices in the room 139 and 5 online " 144: for 20 in the room and 2 online.. 22 against 117 in the room and 3 online " 120" in total, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 5, as by importer. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u438	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u439	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u441	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u443	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u445	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u446	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u447	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u448	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u449	Voices in the room 128 and 6 online. A total of 134: for 118 in the room and 3 online.. 121, against 10 in the room and 3 online... 13 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u450	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working hours of today's plenary day until the end of item one of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u451	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. A reverse opinion? Are you in for a reverse opinion, Mr. Ganev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u452	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Resurrection Group, we'd like a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u453	I will put to the vote first the request made by the MP Vasil Stefanov for an extension of the plenary day. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u455	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u457	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u459	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u461	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u463	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u464	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u465	Voices in Hall 131 and 6 online The motion is accepted. I'll give you 20 minutes off at 1:16. [[Laughter and excitement.]] [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u466	Colleagues, please take your seats. Mr. Ribarsky, please read the next section of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u467	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. A proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan § 6 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u468	I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wishes to speak on the name and § 6? Mrs. Kirova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u469	Mr President, § 6 states: "With the entry into force of this law, the mandates of the members of the Commission with legal experience and experience in the field of economics shall be terminated.' Does this mean that you are aware that there are only two members who have an internship in this area, and it is done precisely for those two to terminate their term of office, because otherwise, if there is one of the other seven who has a legal internship or internship in the field of the economy, his term should be understood that it is also terminated? A text that could be corrected. We asked the Commission, we didn't get an answer. I hope now you'll tell us exactly what you wanted to do with it, or should we all think about what?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u470	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Kirova's statement? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u471	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in art. 12 of the Energy Act in para. 1 It is very clear that the members of the Commission are defined with what kind of internship they should be. They are members with internships in the field of energy, internships in the field of water supply and sewerage, legal internship, in the field of economics and internship or in the field of energy or in the field of water supply to the President. It is very clear, when appointed, on which point the members of the Commission are appointed. Paragraph 6 is therefore described as described in Article 6. 12. The Law cancels points................................................................................................................ 12, para. 1, t. 2. It is therefore also stated in § 6 that the mandates of members with legal internship and internship in the field of the economy are explicitly terminated. I think it's pretty clear, and there's no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u472	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Kirova, would you like one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u473	Mrs. Miteva, I understand your argument. I've read her article. 12 of the Act in force so far. It is difficult for me to determine whether the feelings for what you have just told us are mixed, because you are trying to convince me that this is not how you have foreseen which members have what internship. I told you just now, it turns out that we are actually making a legislative change which concerns exactly two designated members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. And if this practice has been normal or has not been liked so far, I see no arguments to continue and repeat the same. Are we convinced, anyway, that any of the other seven members of the Commission do not have legal and economic experience? That's what I asked, by apologizing in advance for what I said. I do not know the name of any of the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and I do not want to know the next. I believe that laws should apply to all equally and should not be made for a particular person, for his or her appointment or removal. This is the main difference, in fact, in what I asked you and what you tried to explain to me, because, you see, another member will appear who will have legal or economic experience. Are there any so far? That's what I asked. I don't know. I do not know the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but you are introducing a norm that is specifically aimed at exactly two of these members.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u474	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Miteva, you tried to protect § 6. I understand that the importers will not be able to protect it, but I remain in the colleagues the doubt that if Mr. Kochkov from BSP is a lawyer and a plumbing specialist, the one with the legal internship will you release him from the Commission? What if the others, who are interns with energy and economists, are you going to release them too? Because with this text it is not clear that you want to remove the commissioner who is a lawyer and the commissioner who is an economist. That's what it says, not that it's not clear. Then you will have troubles for the simple reason, God forbid, to release all the Commissioners. If you think that the text is precise, if you think that those members you want to stay there and whom you will additionally appoint will not be with two occupations It would have been clearer if you had written directly the names of the commissioners you wanted to remove, and we wouldn't have any ambiguity right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u476	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. The line, Mrs. Miteva, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u477	Mr. Atalay, I think the text is very clear. This is a Final provision and it relates to a provision which is in the corps of the Law. In § 2, t. 2 we cancel the letters "in" and "d". And these are letters "in" and "d" for legal internship and internship in the field of economics. Where those members are elected, the selection decisions of each of them shall specify those grounds and the internship with which they have been selected. That is to say, it is only for the members of the Commission who have been elected with this internship to terminate a term of office, and once we have canceled the letters "in" and "d" it is clear that only those two members are involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u478	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Are there any other lines? A hole, Mr. Atalay, would you like one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u479	Thank you. Mrs. Miteva, I think I've read this law many times. I don't have the claim. In the body and in the spirit of the Law what you are doing at the moment, you are removing it and thus violating the overall philosophy of the whole chapter is fact. The question is, I have a feeling that lately amnesia has started in BSP and in.Yes, Bulgaria. I see you've begun to forget the names of the commissioners. They were your representatives, gentlemen of the BSP, and they're still there. If you don't know the name of Mr. Kochkov and Mr. Kochkov and Mr. Ivanov, and if you don't know the name of Mr. Ivan Ivanov and remove the whole art. 12 and letters................................ you will not achieve the trust that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u480	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u481	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The statement concerning these Transitional and Final Provisions covers, more or less, the spirit of the entire law, which was today at the attention of the National Assembly. Despite all the requirements, we have argued, discussed, debated the reduced requirements for the new members, who clearly need to be appointed to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, for the presidents, for the heads of the individual energy spheres and for the water supply. The whole spirit runs out very short, colleagues. And if any of you can disprove me, it ends up in a Latin sentiment: All of this today was a butaphoria for political control of the Energy and Water Regulator Commission. And this lot, which you have cast today, my fellow Members, bears its responsibility, and that responsibility is that for an independent body now you must bear political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u482	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Are you here for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u483	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, perhaps this is where we should say two words on a proposal which was discussed yesterday to the Energy Commission and before second reading was rejected. We are talking about the proposal of our colleagues Delyan Dobrev and Danny Kanazireva for a modest amendment in art. 94a, para. 1 of the Energy Act, in which to add to it the sites under art. 12, para. 3 of the Religious Law.................................................................................................. Colleagues, yesterday we wanted to see if the National Assembly could give a modest sign that it was not just dealing with personnel issues and that the purpose of this law was not to change KEWRC and to place people who would bear responsibility on behalf of the government from now on, but to do, again, to say, a small gesture and to say that the prayer homes of religion are aligned to domestic consumers and would pay electricity as domestic consumers on a regulated market, but would not pay electricity as industrial enterprises, because they are not industrial enterprises. I would like to say, fellow Members, that if there is one consensus between all political forces throughout the 30 years of transition, this is the consensus on respect for religion, credibility and the preservation of religious peace in the country. In the last 12 years, about which you have spoken much today, and every day, about religion has been done as much as in the last 100 years has not been done. Here should be paid tribute to the colleagues from the DPS, in general to the party DPS, and to the colleagues from the BSP. In 2018 due to the joint will of GERB, DPS and BSP, amendments were made to the Law on Religions, with which all ministers of the two main religions were guaranteed salaries at the expense of the state budget. Tens of monasteries, hundreds of temples and mosques have been renovated in these last years. This is done with the good will and with the full awareness that this is the way to invest in this peace that we talked about earlier. We have learned that yesterday the Energy Commission has not been dealt with at all, that is, it has been dealt with and rejected with the votes of the majority with all sorts of arguments: that we cannot take care only of faiths, but we must also think about the others about municipalities, about hospitals, about schools. And that's true. We have been thinking for several days about how to change members of the KEWRC, and we are not thinking about electricity prices and that hospitals, schools, cultural institutes are failing. In fact, yesterday's proposal was made precisely to see if this National Assembly will think about the citizens, about the people who are failing, and not about our own personnel appointments and about two people who need to be removed, and two people who need to be put away? We have prepared a draft decision because this proposal, which we are going to submit today, has been rejected yesterday for compensation of all these establishments we are talking about...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u484	Mr. Cholakov, I'm sorry to interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u485	I'm coming. ...including the objects referred to in art. 12, para. 3 of the Religious Law. Colleagues, I trust that at least colleagues from DPS and BSP who have always understood this topic will support the decision. I'm sorry we didn't resolve the matter today and we didn't give this small and important sign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u486	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines? [[Noise and lines.]] I made a remark about the subject of speech, not about time. Are you here for procedure, Mr. Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u487	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I think it's been a very very very important thing to hear four speeches, and I suggest that the debate on this point be concluded. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u488	Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Ganev, you for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u489	Mr. Chairman, on several occasions I mention that the new majority is doing everything possible to pass the management of GERB and their mobile coalition partners all these years. Very quickly, however, that is what you are doing right now. I will give you an example of the constant interruption of discussions in question. In the Municipal Council, Varna has exactly the same practice - dominated, of course, by GERB. He starts to speak the opposition in the face of rebirth, in exactly two minutes he becomes another anonymous municipal councillor and says he wants to end the discussion and the majority approves it. You're doing the exact same thing at the moment, and you're not changing at all. Therefore, my opposite view is that this thing should not be accepted because it does not respond to democracy. Let's talk, let's discuss all that we have to say. By shutting the mouth of any MP in this manner of procedure, you give nothing good as a message to the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u490	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I put to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal to end the debate on the name "Concluding Provisions" and § 6. Please vote procedure. Colleagues online? Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u491	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u492	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u494	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u496	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u498	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u499	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u500	Tsvetan Enchev? Please call off the vote. Vote in the House 143 MPs and online 5, total 148: for 113 and 3 online [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting? Please, re-vote procedure. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u501	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u502	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u504	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u506	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u508	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u509	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u510	Tsvetan Enchev? Please call off the vote. They voted in this House 125 MPs and 5 online......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. There are no other entries for speech, so we're putting an end to the debate. Declaration on behalf of the "Movement of Rights and Freedoms" "Come in."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u511	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 27 January 2022 the release of the Nazi concentration camp was 77 years old. On the day when the world community celebrates the International Holocaust Memorial Day, we will once again say: "Never again! " In order to remember, we must constantly monitor and categorize modern forms of racism, discrimination, xenophobia, and associated manifestations of intolerance based on differences, because it is the neglect of such types of manifestations that drive hatred against fake enemies that are at the heart of fascism. The Holocaust is a sign not only of the number of Jews killed, the unprecedented cruelty, but also of the fact that this is the genocide which, due to its size, receives the greatest publicity. It is chilling that even in developing democracies an entire ethnic group can become the victim of a systematic physical extermination. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is condemning any manifestations of xenophobia, religious and ethnic intolerance that still exist. We call on us to remember and never again allow such a disgrace upon mankind. The historical memory that we so often force, but offering a rescue formula for our collective amnesia, is the key to rehabilitating history, for the heroes of democracy in the world and in our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u512	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. We are going to vote on the name of the division Colleagues online? Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u514	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u516	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u518	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u520	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u522	Tsvetan Enchev? Please call off the vote. Vote in the House 132 Members of Parliament and 5 Online? 137 total: 129 and 5 online? 134 total, not against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan § 6 to drop out. Colleagues online? Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u524	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u525	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u526	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u527	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u528	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u529	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u530	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u532	Tsvetan Enchev? Please call off the vote. Vote in the House 144 MPs and 5 online.. total 149: for 29 and 2 online.. total 31, against 113 and 3 online... total 116, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of § 6, as by importer. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u533	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u534	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u536	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u538	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u540	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u541	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u542	Tsvetan Enchev? They voted in the House 130 MPs and 5 online " 135" in total: 119 in the Chamber and 3 online. 122 in total, against 11 in the House and 2 online "13" abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ribarsky, come in with the other lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u543	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan, § 7 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 7. Proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan. A new paragraph with the following content shall be established: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Within 14 days of the entry into force of this Act, a public procedure under art. 12a of the Energy Act for the election of a President and a member with an internship in the field of energy, which have now expired. The Commission does not support the proposal. According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan, § 8 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's proposal for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u544	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u545	Honourable Members of Parliament, § 7 provides for termination of the term of office by lot of three members with internship in the energy sector, and the three have no term of office, and the three have a second term. The lot shall be held in the National Assembly. The practice is to hold this lot in the committee responsible, and this is the Energy Commission. For the sake of clarity of the text and for there to be no doubt as to how and where the lot will be held, I propose that the second sentence should be added to the following sentence: by rules adopted by the Energy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u546	Just to clarify, a comma is placed after the excerpt and the sentence goes on: by rules adopted by the Energy Committee. Are there any lines? Are there any other speeches? I'm calling off the debate on these two paragraphs. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan to drop § 7. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u548	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u549	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u550	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u551	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u552	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u553	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u554	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u556	Tsvetan Enchev? They voted 147 MPs in the Chamber and 5 online " 152" in total: 24 in the Chamber and 2 online. 26 in total, against 121 in the Chamber and 3 online " 124" in total, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the vote on the procedural proposal made by Mrs. Iva Miteva, namely at the end of the sentence, second to add the text: Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u558	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u560	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev? Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u562	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u564	Tsvetan Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u566	Ivaylo Mirchev here? They voted in this House 131 MPs and 4 online.. total 135: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on § 7 in full with the already voted supplement. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u567	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u568	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u570	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u572	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u574	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u575	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u576	Tsvetan Enchev? They voted in the House 132 MPs and 5 online. 137 total: 122 in the Chamber and 3 online. 125 in total, against 10 in the Chamber and 2 online............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan to fall § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u577	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u578	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u579	The offer is withdrawn. I shall put to the vote § 8, as by importer. Colleagues online. Angel Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u581	Andrei Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u583	Desislava Taneva? Ivaylo Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u585	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u586	Peter Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-27.u588	Tsvetan Enchev? They voted 129 MPs in the Chamber and 5 online.. a total of 134: for 129 in the Chamber and 4 online.. 133 in total, against 1 online abstentions. The motion is accepted. That concludes item one of the agenda. Colleagues, since it's 2:05 p.m., I'm gonna read a message and we're gonna finish today's meeting. Parliamentary Control Communication on 28 January 2022, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Water Minister Borislav Sandov will answer 5 questions from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; Zornitsa Stratieva; Victoria Vassileva; Vladislav Panev and Dani Kanazireva and 1 question from the National Representative Stefan Shilev. 2. Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov will answer 3 questions from the MPs Tsoncho Ganev 2 questions, and Atanas Mihnev. 3. The Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev will answer 1 question from the MP Hristo Gazhev and 3 questions from the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Elena Guncheva 2 questions. 4. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer 6 questions from the MPs: Kostadin Angelov "3 questions; Georgi Mihailov; Andrey Chorbanov and Ivaylo Hristov. 5. The Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will answer 9 questions from the MPs: Blagovest Kirilov 2 questions; Anna Alexandrova, Ekaterina Zaharieva and Stefan Mirev; Desislava Atanasova; Nikolina Angelkova, Dani Kanazireva and Anna Alexandrova; Branimir Balachev, Dani Kanazireva and Nikolina Angelkova; Antoaneta Tsoneva; Anna Alexandrova 6. The Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will answer 3 questions from the MPs Ivan Ganchev; Krasimir Valchev 2 questions, and 1 question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva. 7. Tourism Minister Hristo Prodanov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova and Ivaylo Hristov. 8. Energy Minister Aleksandar Nikolov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Ivan Manev and Dani Kanazireva. 9. The Minister of Youth and Sports Radostin Vassilev will answer 1 question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the CPNS: Due to an international meeting planned for parliamentary control, the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadjov and the Minister for Transport and Communications Nikolay Sabev will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev will not participate. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
