ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u1	Honourable colleagues, please register. 154 Members of the National Assembly have signed up to have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, before we get to work... [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] In groups? Can I say something else first and then move on to the procedures and the real work? Today is April 20, the day when the first rifle exploded in Koprivshtitsa in 1876 and the April Uprising broke out. A rebellion prepared long by the Bulgarian revolutionaries, waited long by the Bulgarian people and realized with self-denial and faith in the achievement of the covenant goal. The April Uprising does not achieve its goal, but the dedication and bravery with which our ancestors have opposed an entire empire will be remembered as long as Bulgaria exists. The April Uprising is one of the most decisive steps taken by the Bulgarian people, with which he declared determination to restore his country, to reject tyranny and to take over the future of his country in his own hands. Therefore, we must bow our heads to all those who, with their lives, have paid our freedom, who with their courage and courage have impressed the whole world and who have made it today to have a Bulgarian country, flag, parliament. Let the memory of everyone who has lost their lives be eternal so that Bulgaria can have it! Let us be their worthy heirs and in our deeds we are guided only by the interests of Bulgaria and by the well-being of the Bulgarian people! A request for a minute of silence has been made by the parliamentary group of the party. Let's respect our ancestors with a minute of silence! [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Thank you. On the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for 20 and 21 April 2022: "1." Project of a decision to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency for the implementation of the activities of maintaining the Republican road network, importers "Toshko Yordanov" and a group of MPs, 15 April 2022, and Draft of a decision to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency for the implementation of the activities of maintaining the Republican road network, importers "Nastimir Ananiev" and a group of MPs, 15 April 2022. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and of the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importers "Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs, 17 March 2022 3. A bill for ratification of a Letter of Offer and Admission BU-B-UCH Radio Communication Equipment (Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) BU-B-UCH Radio Communications Equipment). Importer of the Council of Ministers, 31 March 2022 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importers supplied Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs, 11 March 2022 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers scostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, 28 January 2022 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 6. First vote on the Bill amending the Public Procurement Act. Importers - Mustafa Karadaye, Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid, 19 January 2022 7. First vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill. Importers scostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, 28 January 2022 Point 8 will be changed and will not be: Draft decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to establish all the facts and circumstances related to the government's 1 billion-billion-dollar memorandum. The dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation, and I propose as a point. 8 to be: Draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission to examine all memorandums and letters of intent signed by the Government for the period from 12 May 2021 to 20 April 2022. Importers 8 under the draft programme proposed by the Chair. Point 9, which is fixed as t. 1 for Thursday the only fixed one is: Second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 31 December 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 9 March 2022. This is the project. Please vote. Then we will move on to the proposals under art. 47, para. 3. Vote 196 MPs: 162 against 7, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Atanas Slavov, come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our procedure is on the following, extremely important issue for our country. As you know, on April 1st "Democratic Bulgaria" submitted a draft decision to provide military technical assistance to Ukraine to give the government a mandate to provide such assistance. Last week, the foreign policy committee meeting, which had to deal with this draft decision, did not actually consider it. This project has been downloaded. Yesterday we learned that this week the Committee on Foreign Policy will not consider the draft decision. At the same time, Ukraine's Foreign Minister is on a three-day extremely important visit to Bulgaria. Please note to the President of the Commission that this draft decision must be entered on the Commission's agenda as soon as possible and examined. The National Assembly to rule and the Bulgarian government to be able as part of the governments of the democratic world to stand dignifiedly next to its partners, and Bulgaria to provide military assistance to Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u3	Thank you, Professor Slavov. I'll keep that in mind. Hristo Gadget for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, on March 30th, we have submitted a similar proposal. As we heard yesterday from the President of the Foreign Policy Committee, the visit of the Ukrainian foreign minister, which is said to be protocol, is clearly coming to greet his birthday according to the foreign policy of Bulgaria. Now I would like to remind you of the time limits that are laid down in the Rules. There is a 15-day deadline within which proposals for decisions that have been tabled need to be addressed. It's April 20th today. I think it's been 15 days since March 30th. As you know, there are three options in which to convene a meeting of the Commission to consider them. One of them's from the chairman. Obviously, the President will not do it. The second one is from one third of the MPs in these two committees representatives of GERB and Democratic Bulgaria do not make one third. So there's no way to use this mechanism. The third mechanism is left by you. That is, you as President of the National Assembly to convene this committee to meet and consider on the agenda the draft decisions on which the deadline has expired. Accordingly, if you wish to follow the Rules of Procedure, we leave to your responsibility and to your conscience to call such a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I'll keep in mind your procedure. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is for item six of the agenda to become item two. Somehow logically, right there is the place of point two. The Law amending the Public Procurement Act. A number of parties have made several election campaigns, promising the Bulgarian people that they will remove the regulated in-house procedure. On the one hand, the huge procurement in this order, on the other side, the hysteria created for the In House procedures led to the situation that we will consider at point one. So right after point one, we need to look at point six, fellow Members, the Law amending the Public Procurement Act, and we need to finish this inhouse. So there would be no more hot potatoes from which the executive would run and kick the ball to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u7	Thank you, Mr. Hamid, for your offer. For a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, my procedure is to move the already adopted National Assembly Work Programme for April 20th. I propose point eight "Project of a decision to set up a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's signed memorandums and letters of intents, as formulated by the President, to become point one for today. My arguments are in two directions. On the one hand, this draft decision is necessary because the National Assembly does not yet know what the content, subject matter, parties and binding clauses of the signed memorandums and letters of intent by members of the Council of Ministers, with various corporations on various issues. On the other hand, I propose that the first point of the draft decision to take action by the Agency will be dealt with on the day tomorrow after the committees to which it is allocated for an opinion will take their opinions at regular meetings. It became clear to the Conference of Presidents that the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has not dealt with this point. The budget committee is probably also needed to examine it, so I propose that we give these two committees time to rule. Among other things, as far as I understand from my colleagues in the Regional Commission, there are extremely serious editorial proposals. In practice, one of the decisions has been rejected, but it has become part of an editorial amendment to the other decision, which should undoubtedly be discussed to the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is why I appeal for this shift in the National Assembly's Work Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. So two proposals I wrote down point eight to become point one. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova.]] Okay, I've written down two proposals for point one to be point one for Thursday, and point eight to be point one for today. These are the proposals from Desislava Atanasova. Yeah, let's hear it, too. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Is this the agenda of the society you bet today? Keep in mind that the agenda of society is completely different. Mrs. Atanasova's points, the points of colleagues from DB, the point related to inflation is missing. No fighting inflation. What is happening right now is that now, Mr. Chairman, we have 12.4% inflation, galloping one. There is a forecast of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 50% inflation of food products by the end of the year. For those of you who don't understand, let me say 710 BGN. The minimum wage that people will receive will be able to buy products for 355 BGN, unlike last year. Fuel prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u11	Tell me your suggestions, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u12	We hear all sorts of speeches from the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u13	Mr. Stankov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u14	Mr. Chairman, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u15	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u16	The procedure is aimed at you as Chairman. Please! You, as President, must ensure that the National Assembly's agenda is in line with the public agenda. We can't have 68% of society asking for fixed prices because they're already wondering what kind of crap is happening in the country. The fuel act, the Prime Minister, could have been told from the beginning that it could not be reduced because we have the lowest excise duty on the territory of the country. You killed tourism, you killed agriculture, you drained the energy. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u17	Mr. Stankov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u18	By collecting the percentages in gross domestic product, this is nearly 45% of the sectors that are in gross domestic product. I allow myself to give to you, too, so that you can provide the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister with two cards. [[Passing the cards to the President.]] Two maps that are drawn up by the European Commission what gas prices are and how they are compared to domestic consumers and industrial ones to see that the fact that no sectoral aid is provided brings and pours even more gasoline into the fire in a way that even more inflation is increasing. [[(Noise and lines from..) We continue the Change........................................)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u19	Time, Mr. Stankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u20	Take urgent measures because you have turned the whole country and the economy and households into a hybrid vehicle. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's your time, but you're wasting it, colleague!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u21	Mr. Stankov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u22	So a hybrid car that spends only on electricity and gasoline. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u23	Firstly, the agenda of the National Assembly shall be determined by the content generated by the committees, which shall be submitted by the Members of the National Assembly. There's nothing else the chairman can do about it. Let's move on to voting on the proposals. The first proposal was Hamid Hamid's and it was point six to become point one. Point six is the First Voting of the Draft Law amending the Law on... [[Replys: "Two. "]] Was it second? I apologize, I apologize, yes, point two to become point two. We are voting on Hamid Hamid's proposal for point six to become point two. Vote 206 MPs: 79, against 118, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Desislava Atanasova Point Eighth "The Project for a Decision for the Establishment of a Temporary Committee of Inquiry" to become the first point in the Programme. They voted 208 MPs: 79, against 110, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal, again by Desislava Atanasova, is: point one They voted 209 MPs: 90 against 110, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. On the basis of art. 47, para. 3 by GERB-SDS, a proposal has been made to be included as point two in the Program for the Work of the National Assembly for this week Draft decision to cancel the National Assembly's vacation. We are voting for GERB-SDZ's proposal to be included in the Programme as point 2 Project of a decision to cancel the National Assembly's vacation. They voted 214 MPs: 55 against 43 abstentioned 116.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u24	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u25	Okay, we're going over this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u26	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u27	Please come in for a procedure. For procedure? Is it supposed to be a secret vote, just to ask? [[Noise, lines, laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Raised mood in the Chamber on the occasion of a procedural decision, namely parliament to meet next week, as all Bulgarian citizens will do. [[Noise and line: "What Will End? "]] We offer it for several reasons. The first reason is that this agenda cannot be adopted within the plenary week, April 20th, and this is an important agenda. The second reason, however, is that although many of the topics Mr. Zhecho Stankov spoke about are topics from the everyday life of Bulgarian citizens. Who, if not the National Assembly, honourable Members, must take a decision regarding and reducing VAT rates, which have been applied since yesterday by the ruling coalition? Who should decide on the draft decision proposed by our parliamentary group and by the Democratic Bulgaria? Who should discuss the position on Macedonia and a number of other issues that no one but the MPs can solve? Therefore, honourable Members, yes, we are probably all tired, we all want to be with our loved ones at Easter holidays, but we can meet next week on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday and hold regular parliamentary controls tomorrow. [[Noise and lines.]] Because we will remain convinced that you are deliberately hiding the members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u29	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u30	That's why I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u31	Yes, thank you. [[The National Representative Kiril Simeonov from the place wants the floor of speech.]] After the re-voting. Okay, Mr. Simeonov. We're overreacting. They voted 214 MPs: 59, against 38, abstention 117. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the procedure. And then Mr. Simeonov, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to explain why we voted against, but since my procedure is still in the way of holding the vote, you should not have allowed the revoting to be explained. Otherwise, I would like to remind the MPs that Parliament's rating will not rise with the cancellation of the holiday. To take seriously an institution in which we swear, and all in studios and election meetings talk about how we will restore parliamentaryism. For one year now, three Parliaments have cancelled all parliamentary vacations, which are a tradition for the Bulgarian Parliament, with populist motives. Remember what we were doing when we canceled Christmas break. We were listening to some ministers here, and we didn't even have anything to ask them. There wasn't a single bill. The same was the summer we listened to ministers. It makes sense and Parliament's rating will rise if we really look at serious bills and if we have a serious parliamentary tone and behaviour. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Simeonov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like you to remind Mrs. Atanasova that Good Friday is an official holiday at the initiative of Mr. Boyko Borisov, who said that the chief upstairs has ordered that no work be done on Friday. [[Applause from IHN.]] And one more thing to remind them, because Mr. Tsonev mentioned the December issue again, and then I remember Mr. Dilov came out and I want to quote a statement from him, it is very short: I want to draw attention to you that with this decision you will take, you will violate the civil and religious rights of the people who follow the Christian religion and live in the church, because in the period from Christmas to 8 January there is a number of very important Christian holidays............. these were his arguments for his opposite opinion back then. He was talking about some cognitive dissonance then, so I want to ask him now: what would he say about cognitive dissonance? Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, as Mr. Simeonov asked you to ask and ask Mrs. Atanasova, I will now try to remind Mr. Simeonov that the official holidays are not working for the Republic of Bulgaria and for the Parliament, as well as 3 March, and by the way and 6 May is also not working, even though it falls on Friday and is an official holiday. So even if this decision was adopted, the official holidays would not be part of it and on Friday it would still not be working, so this whole procedure in the way of conduct from a while ago was quite untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u37	Thanks, guys. I suggest we call off the discussion on the issue of vacation. I think we've decided. We are moving on to the next proposal, which is from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT. It is for inclusion in the program as a t. 1 on Thursday at the hearing of the Minister of Health Prof. Asena Serbenova on the Draft Treaty for amendment and supplement of the National Framework Treaty for medical activities between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Association for 2020 - 2022 We are voting on the proposal of AGE. They voted 199 MPs: 75, against 32, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It is for inclusion in the weekly Programme of the National Assembly of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The proposal is inadmissible as the bill was submitted on 31 March 2021, respectively the two-month period for examination has not expired, and no report of the committee responsible has been submitted. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for procedure. [[Reply.]] I just checked, no report's been filed yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u38	) Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mr President, the agenda of the public must be part of those points that are present today on the agenda of the National Assembly, but the main thing that you came to power for, your senses, the sensitivity to what the public expects of you, seem to have become dulled very quickly. We have a February month's decision to reduce the pressure as much as possible not to increase galloping inflation. The decision does not require a report from the Commission or anything, but you did not submit it. We have proposed a bill that we are helping you with, allowing about 3 billion to be collected from the unjustified profits that green energy and nuclear power and the National Electricity Company are piling up from the back of the population. I do not know why the President of the Commission has not submitted the report, but understand that if you had submitted this bill today, about 500 million would have been charged for April, which would have entered the Electricity Security Fund, which would have helped both kindergartens, schools and end-user. We don't want anything from you, colleagues, but we just sent a message here to the Prime Minister to take your tail away from the Green Production, from green energy. And one more thing, Mr President, the Commission on Competition from the European Union will in just one month demand that this 500 million be returned to the State because there is no notification of the unjustified profit received by those producers of green energy with preferential prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u39	The weather, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u40	Once you don't get green energy, the second time, the state will pay 366 million punishments. I don't know what's more important to the agenda, Mr. Chairman?! I see I'm running out of time, so I hope your time doesn't run out any faster. Let's see that the problem is not populism whether there will be an Easter vacation or not, it will not be pleasant for those who are at least believers. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I am sure that the report will come soon and we will be able to examine it in plenary. And the final offer by the order of art. 47, para. 3 is to be included in the Programme Draft decision to oblige the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly a final audit report on compliance with the conclusion and implementation of the Public Procurement Contracts of the Road Infrastructure Agency on the design, construction and operation of an electronic charging system for the use of the Republican Road Network from the beginning of the design of the system until the end of 2020. This draft decision has also been allocated to committees on 15 April "On Friday, the deadlines have not expired and there are no reports received. I have contacted the Court of Auditors in the meantime and found that the report has not been adopted, so perhaps it is better to clarify this issue first from the committees and then submit it. I make a commitment to be included in the President's programme for the first week after the vacation. At this stage, the request is unacceptable, but I make a commitment to include it in the first week after vacation. We've run out of suggestions with this. Moving on to point one of the program: - PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRESENT ACTS BY THE AGENCY OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE Importers supposed to Tosko Yordanov and a group of MPs, 15 April 2022; and - PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRESENT ACTS BY THE AGENCY OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE Importers "Nastimir Ananiev" and a group of MPs, 15 April 2022 A report came in from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Which representative of the Commission will introduce us to the report? [[Reply.]] Bogomil Petkov, come in, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u42	♪ I can't believe on the draft decision to take action by the Agency of the Road Infrastructure of the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-45, submitted by Tosko Yordanov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022 and a draft decision to take action by the Agency of the Road Infrastructure of the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-46, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Miroslav Ivanov and Zarko Marinov on 15 April 2022. At a regular meeting held on 19 April 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a draft decision to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency on the implementation of the activities of the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-45, submitted by Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022, and a draft decision to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency on the implementation of the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network, No 47-254-02-46, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Miroslav Ivanov and Zarko Marinov on 15 April 2022. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Yavor Penchev and representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision, No 47-254-02-46, was presented by the President of the Commission, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. He stressed that since, in the previous discussions in plenary of several versions of a decision on this case, with the other importers of the project submitted a version of a decision which is closest to the version which received the most votes in the vote in plenary. Mr. Ananiev noted that the case is already well-known to all MPs as a result of previous discussions in the committee and plenary, it is complex enough, but requires a solution to be found so that the Agency can continue to carry out its duties. The activities of maintaining Republican roads are directly related to road safety and are pushing us to find a solution before the beginning of the summer season. The activities of maintaining Republican roads are directly related to road safety and are pushing us to find a solution before the beginning of the summer season. Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov took part in the discussion. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the MPs Elena Guncheva, Zarko Marinov, Georgi Georgiev, Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov, Borislav Gutsanov, Nikolay Nankov, Manol Genov, Halil Letifov and Snezhanka Troyanska took part in the discussion. All participants in the discussion agreed that a solution should be found, pointing out that despite the challenge of the proposed project by the representatives of the opposition, the proposed option enables practical actions to overcome the situation in which the Road Infrastructure Agency has fallen. People's representative Snezhanka Trajanska presented to the Commission the draft decision version, explaining that an agreement has been reached in the coalition for a draft decision with the version presented. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly shall not accept the draft decision to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency for the implementation of the activities of the Republican Road Network, No 47 254 02 45, submitted by Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022; The National Assembly proposes to adopt the Project of a decision to take action by the Railway Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network, No 47 254 02 46, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev, Yordan Terziyski, Miroslav Ivanov and Zarko Marinov on 15 April 2022, with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? to take action by the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the activities of maintaining the Republican Road Network The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the Report of the Road Infrastructure Agency on 30 March 2022 concerning the found danger of the failure of the Road Infrastructure Agency on the implementation of the activities of maintaining Republican roads throughout the country and in order to ensure the safety and health of users of Republican roads HAS DECIDED Approves the Road Infrastructure Agency to take the following legal and factual actions: 1. The Road Infrastructure Agency to pay from its established budget for 2022 50 per cent of all financial obligations of the Agency arising from activities carried out certified until such time as the entry into force of this decision, awarded on the basis of maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations) on Republican roads, including repairs to separate road sections, repair of bridge facilities and tunnels, and to pay 100 per cent of all financial obligations of the Road Infrastructure Agency, arising from contracts for the supply and installation of restrictive systems, on contracts for production, supply and installation of road signs and on contracts for marking on the territory of the Republican road network, as well as on obligations under monthly and extraordinary contracts for the maintenance of Republican roads. 2. The remaining 50 percent of all the financial obligations of the Agency under point (c) of paragraph 1. 1 arising from implemented activities certified until the date of entry into force of this Decision shall be carried out following a decision of the National Assembly on the basis of a report prepared by the Interdepartmental Working Group for the establishment of the completed activities (as established by Order No RD-02-14-160/07.02.2022 of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Order No ZMF-91/07.02.2022 of the Minister of Finance) and an opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. 3. The Road Infrastructure Agency shall undertake all necessary legal and factual actions on the award of new activities under the contracts concluded to ensure maintenance (preventive, ongoing, winter and emergency repair works) of Republican roads, supply and installation of restrictive road systems, horizontal marking and of contracts for the production, supply and installation of road signs with permanent and variable vertical signalling sizes of Republican roads for the period until new contracts with contractors selected as a result of open procedures under the Public Procurement Act, carried out in 2022, but not later than 30 September 2022, including, if necessary, concluding additional agreements to the contracts under point (c). 1 with a period of validity not later than 30 September 2022. The payment of the obligations which will arise from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence shall be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency. 2 of the decision. 4. The Road Infrastructure Agency shall take all necessary legal and factual actions in order to ensure that all activities initiated on the basis of current maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and emergency repair) on Republican roads are completed in due time and fully completed. The payment of the obligations arising from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence shall be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency on the basis of and in the size of the Agency's established budget, according to a report by the interdepartmental Working Group to establish the implemented activities referred to in point (c). 2 of the decision. " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u43	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. I would like to give the floor to the importers if they are willing to present their projects anyway, and then I will open a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you know, in the last maybe ten days, maybe two weeks the subject is very relevant. Last week, none of the three decisions went through the plenary. With our fellow Members who tabled this draft decision, we have chosen the decision, which raised the most votes in the House, refined different moments from it and tabled it. We understand, in fact, that the state is pressed against the wall and has to make a decision, that is simply the circumstances. At the moment, no one is supporting the Republican road network. Everyone who has traveled along the highway.. I have had to travel in the last ten days once to Plovdiv, once to Burgas, and where a crash took place, we see the beams taken, there are some plastic red reflectors and, God forbid, if in this place again becomes a crash, it means that there is no guard at the moment. The car will enter the oncoming highway, which will lead to many crashes and casualties. We know the holidays are coming, we know the summer season is coming. During the summer season, unfortunately, there are most road accidents, with the most dead, with the most injured, and I think that an hour should rather allow the Road Infrastructure Agency to be able to assign this support to the road, as the maintenance itself will take time. If we make the decision today, it doesn't mean that tomorrow everything will be done, but we have to take it, because that's the circumstances, we're being pressured. But we have to tell her what happened. In fact, we have some contracts that were worth about 700 million, and at some point the value of the contracts increased to over 3 billion. This happened just when the former rulers found out they were losing power, and out of 700 million had become over 3 billion entrusted activities. And we're talking about money that wasn't in the budget. They were not laid down, but the scope of the contract was extended, re-subscribed additional awards. That's one problem. Another problem we have is that in contracts that need to be for ongoing repair and maintenance, which means maintenance of the road.. repairing small holes, cleaning bushes, wiping signs, more than 200 different activities enter this category, but no major repairs, no reconstruction, no new construction enters. And in this way it was used to carry out activities that did not come within this range, which for me is not right. But right now, we are pressed to choose road safety or how to approach this situation. That is why we are making a solomon solution in which we are giving 50% at the moment, but we are putting control over the second 50%, as an interdepartmental commission between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will come up with a report on these contracts A committee has been set up, this will be the regional committee, but for me the committee does not matter who it is, the question is to have a committee of parliament check this report in order to have a decision to grant the other funds. If we find abuse or something that has happened, we may have some mechanism to deal with. This is the mechanism that has been chosen, stressing that for the road marking, the horizontal marking, the boards and the signs are paid 100% of the money that is worth just over 135 million, so this is the decision we need to make. For me, it's more of a solution that makes some kind of a decision. Is it the best? Maybe it's not the best solution, but we're really under pressure right now. In the Commission, we have heard a lot of political talk, and it comes from people who have been part of this process, but for me, it takes a state-owned behavior to be able to solve it, but it also takes responsibility for individuals who have been part of these vicious practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Karimansky, do you want to speak on behalf of the importers? Okay. You want a line? You can't do this now. Just to be clear, this was a presentation of one draft decision by the importers. We have another project. I don't see the desire for the importers to present it, so I'm opening the discussion. First it was Mrs. Angelkova, then it would be you, Karimansky. [[Reply.]] Yes, yes, Guncheva. Everyone will speak. There's still time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Firstly, I am surprised at what legal basis are you submitting this decision to take action by the API to carry out the maintenance activities of the Republican Road Network? There are many literate lawyers, the President of the National Assembly is also a lawyer, and you should all be aware that this issue is entirely from the competences of the executive and the Council of Ministers. Let me also remind you of art. 8 of the Constitution that state power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. It is obvious that in this case the Council of Ministers is trying to transfer its responsibility to the National Assembly. It is crystal clear from the reasons set out by the importers to the decision that the Minister of Regional Development does not fulfil the responsibilities and obligations it carries as holder of that position. From the reasons I have read, it is evident that in the framework of the official offices of Komitova, the acting Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, while conducting a witch hunt, in practice earlier requires the elected legal contractors, through open procedures under the letter of the Public Procurement Act, to terminate these contracts. The same reasoning shows that in practice some of these contracts expire April and June. Now suddenly, after the ruling coalition sees what has been created, it practically complains that you see, the Road Infrastructure Agency is unable to carry out its powers, which had fallen into impossibility. Ladies and gentlemen of government, let us tell the truth and that thanks to your incompetence you are looking for a way to wash your incompetence before the Bulgarian citizens with this by transferring the responsibilities of the National Assembly. Why does the National Assembly have to make this decision?! Let us recall the Law on Obligations and Contracts Art. 9.................................................... the contract...................................... Obviously, we need to recall that this is an agreement between two countries with clear rights and obligations that they have agreed on. Let's remember art. 20 of the DPA that the contract has the power of law for those who have concluded it. Let us remind ourselves that in this case it is about clear countries - API and the selected contractor - a legal person with clear rights and obligations, deadlines and responsibilities under these contracts. You want to intervene a third party in the case of contracts already concluded and not any third party, but the legislative power in the face of the National Assembly. Why and on what grounds should the National Assembly approve expenditure and issue opinions on reports?! Well, you, by this logic, will want us to make a committee in the National Assembly to approve expenditure and to give opinions on all contracts, for example to the Ministry of Sport, transport, culture, energy, tourism, economy. In fact, why do we have the Council of Ministers and what these ministers will do besides go to conferences and missions and get out of airplanes? I apologize, but being a minister means taking responsibility and making the necessary decisions. Yeah, they're tough. Yes, apparently the Minister of Service Komitova has put the watermelon crust on Grozdan Karadzhov, only why should the National Assembly be responsible for this and solve these problems. And you are currently misleading the Bulgarian citizens, instead of paying a hundred percent, immediately and immediately to the construction companies, so that they can pay back because this is entirely within the powers of the Council of Ministers. So do not wash your hands with the National Assembly and pay a hundred percent of Bulgarian companies for what they have worked out. Get your expertise done, appreciate your expenses. On the basis of this interdepartmental commission, pay them without washing your hands with the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. I give the floor now to Mrs. Kanazireva. [[Heckling]] Excuse me, are there any lines? First, Mr. Gutsanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Aren't you uncomfortable, colleagues from the Political Party GERB, just you to go out and talk about roads, given that the roads have become a name for corruption over the past 12 years. [[(noise and lines from GERB-SDS, applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] And you really have to be the winner of the Oscar, so you can come out here and talk like this about roads. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Next, how do you feel about having $710 million available and signing $3 billion contracts? You must really be Ostap Bender so you can do this thing. The only sensible solution that we can make right now is to make it so that half of the funds can be paid, and indeed for the others in the most careful way to see what happened, what was fulfilled to be paid then, as the replica Please, colleagues, for a little humility and reason, so that we can really calm the whole sector and the roads to be in the state in which all Bulgarian citizens want to see them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Ananiev, line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u49	Mrs. Angelkova, you're talking about the letter of the Law on the Law of the Law. We have said nothing about this award, which exceeds 50% of the basic contracts. Is that by the letter of the law of the ZPO? It is explicitly stated that there is also a decision of the European Court on the subject, which was read by my colleague Kullenski last time, on which it is very clear that you cannot assign, perhaps your mathematics is lame, but from 700 million to 3.3 billion is not 50%. Could you assign 350 million over this amount, but placed them at the end of your reign, because now the Bulgarian citizens and taxpayers will pay for it. Also, yes, the watermelon bark has been put in place, but this is your government and this watermelon crust has been placed by your API, which is currently required by the National Assembly to decide in order to have some safe roads for Bulgarian citizens to move on. In fact, a big part of the problem is, you say, let's face it. I, as an importer, told many truths. The point is that your hearing ability is quite selected for the truths themselves and for the practices that were once again done in your management when it was your API. And now, as I said, the state is sitting hostage and cannot unblock this case in order to have some normal support on the Bulgarian roads. For me this is some political hypocrisy and, of course, we are entering the Bulgarian proverb The thief is calling........... hold the thief.......................................................................... Instead of humble yourself, to be silent on this subject because you have made this mess, and this is a mess that is involved, I urge you to be silent and humbly wait for the solution that we have come up with, no matter how perfect or not. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Third line. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, I sincerely thank you for this speech. In fact, several campaigns explain the difference in morality and why there was a change and why GERB should not be in power. You did the demonstration from this tribune of how one thing that everyone tells him is in violation of the law, for you it's perfect, it's fine, it's extremely lawful. In fact, with what you said, you have demonstrated all that I said in the campaign for so long in power, and you have already forgotten the difference between legal and illegal, right and wrong. I really thank you for having the opportunity to demonstrate your way of thinking from this tribune. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Hole, Mrs. Angelkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u53	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Regarding Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Gutsanov, how is it not uncomfortable for you to propose to the National Assembly to violate the Constitution and the laws of this country?! How uncomfortable it is for you to explain and suggest to people that there have been violations in proper contracts. The fact that you don't like it, the same goes for Mr. Ananiev, you are not judges. If you think there are violations, there is a court, why hasn't it been done? Some flying reports that Minister Komitova is delivering and in which you give legal qualifications. On what grounds?! You're breaking the law again. There is a court, if you have any doubts in the contracts that they have any violations, this is the procedure. Apart from that, let me quote to you what the Burgas Administrative Court said in its Decision 1019 of 2014, according to which: Mr. Ananiev, what happened to this: you don't eat asphalt?! You can see how important the roads are for Bulgarian citizens and you instead have the responsibility as governors and the Council of Ministers is most responsible to sit down and make a decision because the law gives him all this right, based on the expertise you made and to pay the Bulgarian citizens. At the moment you come here and make up all sorts of reasons so that you can transfer responsibility to the National Assembly. Make a decision by the Council of Ministers. This is the right thing to do, and this is the responsible one, and pay...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u54	Tell me about your responsibility. Tell me about your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u55	Don't interrupt me from the spot. ...and pay off the contractors who did their job. In addition, see the Institutes for Unwarranted Refurbishment and Conduct of Foreign Affairs without authority, where it is clearly described what the procedures are. The lasting caselaw in this direction is also clear. Please do not transfer the responsibility of GERB for any sins that do not exist, that you cannot bring your decisions and that you are going on a witch hunt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u56	Three billion who signed it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u57	Mr. Ananiev, not from the spot. Mrs. Kanazireva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u58	Let the colleagues of your group speak first. Let me stay last recorded, finally.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u59	Well, in the end... Okay, we'll take turns in groups, but when the time comes, then. Mrs. Guncheva and after her Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't understand why we're looking at this point today. The issue is mostly legal, but there is no report from the Legal Commission. We won't even be meeting the Legal Committee this week. The budget committee will consider this proposal this afternoon. To remind you that we are talking about over 1 billion leva. We are looking at this proposal, which was submitted orally yesterday to the Regional Commission in the form of editorial amendments, something which almost half of the Commission disagreed with. And again, I repeat, nothing from last week's debate you didn't understand. The problem is really legal, and really what you're doing right now is getting us involved in a corruption scheme. All of you, both from the government and from the opposition, agreed that these contracts were concluded in violation of the law in respect of those activities which exceed the estimated value. No one here has confirmed that these contracts are real. Nobody said it was okay with them. If there were no problems, the ball wouldn't have been transferred to the National Assembly. The question is why the government insists that the National Assembly authorise payments under some invalid contracts, which have been called into question, some of which are very likely to be insignificant. I have read the Commission's report, which is from November last year and where some of these contracts are said to be insignificant. Payments under minor contracts are without merit. The only thing that can be paid in small contracts is the hard work and materials invested. But in this proposal that we see from the government, there is no such distinction. It is asked to pay the value of the works done, including with the profit, that is, you insist that we participate in this scheme. In what way will we morally justify such an accessory? If these contracts are null and void, if they're insignificant, they have to go to court, they have to go to the D.A.'s office. As far as I know, there are several prosecutor's files on this matter. Even one of the 18 166s of 2021, the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, was terminated the other day, but what has she found, none of us know. What if it turns out that there are crimes committed in the conclusion and award of activities under these contracts, and each of us here has to explain why he authorised payments on them? With so many lawyers in the National Assembly, I am amazed that this issue is put in this way at all. There is a solution and it can be found if experts from the Budget Committee and the Legal Committee sit down to make a working draft decision. I would ask the rulers: if it is such an urgent question the National Assembly took place December last year, why is it that only now we are being put to fire this question, why has it not been put in the first days of the government, why has no solution been found so far? Why doesn't anyone tell us who the guilty officials are so we can fall into this situation? Because the caretaker government annexed these contracts by ending them early. Why are public procurement delayed? Who is responsible for this situation that is really very disturbing? There's no way this just happened, on its own, is guilty. And before we vote on this decision, I want to know who's responsible and who's responsible for all this? Once again, I call on you to obey the Law. Right here in the National Assembly, it is our duty to uphold the Law and the Constitution. The National Assembly cannot afford to support corruption practices such as the arguments here have been sprained by all parties. The other thing I would like to put as a question is that in this draft decision that was given to us yesterday orally to the Regional Commission, it turns out that the Anti-corruption Commission is dropping out. There are several signals in it that exactly violate these contracts. At one point, it turns out that the Regional Commission has to approve payments for the next. Why doesn't this go through the Anti-Corruption Commission with all the doubts that have been expressed? Including last week, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov of this tribune said these contracts were illegal. It is a well-known fact that the Prime Minister never lies. [[(Laughter) DPS lines.)]] So I would call on us to bear in mind that there are probably some invalid contracts, and until this issue is clarified, let us not support corrupt practices. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Are there any lines? Here's a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I fully agree with you that there are many irregularities in these contracts and that is why this decision is postponed in time. As we can see, even the Minister can't make that decision himself, so he's sent to us. The big question, in my opinion, which is more important in this case, is, in addition to establishing and answering all the questions that you have asked, is what do people who have actually carried out work and materials with their own money or the money taken by the banks to implement these contracts? They're paying interest on these funds right now and they're going bankrupt, Mrs. Guncheva. Therefore, our proposal is 50% to be paid to be sure to some extent, as you said, whether illegal or otherwise, there is a practice to pay for the work and materials. This is the idea that we propose that 50% be paid for so that people can get back on their feet, and for the remaining 50% we have offered a very adequate mechanism for finding an answer to all the questions you are asking. Again, we are all aware in this room that there are problems with these contracts. On the other hand, we are obliged to give them money, or at least partially give them money, which is our proposal at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line: Professor Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Guncheva, I have always treated you with great respect in the Health Commission as a member when you placed your own. Here I listened with great attention to what you say, but I remember some things. That's really a big problem. He's a legal problem. It is clear that it has been such a problem since the time of the provisional government. You were not in this National Assembly, but this problem was put before the previous parliaments, was placed on one night at 12 and a half in the night here in front of the entire Chamber, that is, it is so well done as a minefield in front of the new government of the country. I also remember something else from March last year, when we entered a campaign, until November last year, when we were finishing the campaign, the section Vladaya was half-finished, in order to create tension in one of the most neural transport connections of the capital. This was also done in many other places, i.e. this is a mine at stake in front of this government. There's no other way she can be removed right now. And what Mr. Mitev told you, and what Mr. Ananiev said, as a representative of the decision, about how these contracts were exceeded, how many billion were spent in advance, this mine cannot be resolved, to be removed without the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. That is why we will support this decision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor, Mr. Ananiev, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u66	Dear Mrs. Guncheva, you ask: why now? I said it in the statement and I think it's clear why. It's about money that's not at stake, and it has to be paid. It should have passed the country's budget, which you know when it went through a few weeks ago. As soon as the country's budget passed, it was seen that there were funds at stake, the procedure began. We are not like GERB to actually give some money that is not anywhere, it is not in the budget, it is not at stake, but actually to act in this way. There's a budget decision, we set the procedure in motion. Who's to blame? I also want to know who's responsible. As much as you want, so do I. Some of the culprits may be in this room, but we need to know who the culprits are and who made this mess. You say: why the Regional Commission and not the Anti-Corruption Commission? You are part of the Regional Commission. I think that when the opinion comes in, we will be able to look at with you the entire factology that the Interdepartmental Commission has discovered. So you are part of this committee and I cannot understand why you resent that you will personally be able to participate in this process and make your contribution. You told me about the courthouse. Yeah, it's right to go to trial, I totally agree. The problem is that court cases usually take two or three years. Can we leave the Bulgarian roads two or three years without support? I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor for the back, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u68	I'll start with Mr. Ananiev. You're right, Mr. Ananiev, you're not like GERB. You managed to outdo them in a very short time, and to the point that soon many Bulgarian citizens will not be able to afford to use the roads at all. To Mr. Mitev. You also seem to admit that there are invalid contracts. You said you had to pay for the labor and materials. Yes, but in the draft decision you are proposing is to pay 50% of all the financial obligations of the Agency arising from implemented activities. This is not only work and materials, and the profits of companies are included here, that is, this profit, which is the result of probably invalid contracts, that is, you are in favour of breaking the law. If you offer to pay only the work and materials, I would probably support it, because it will be in accordance with the legal provisions and we will not even bear the moral responsibility for allowing such a payment. But I can't agree that we have to pay all the debts that have occurred as a result of a violation of the law. Mr. Ananiev, it is true that Bulgarian justice is very difficult and slow. As a lawyer, I can confirm it, but this does not mean that we must solve all public relations as the Prime Minister says.................................. without passing the legal procedure. The law may be strict, but it is a law and must be enforced. Most of all, it must be implemented by us MPs, because we are an example, because tomorrow there may be elections. e.g. GERB can be the first political power, and what if they start submitting similar decisions to sanitize different contracts? Do you understand how dangerous what you're suggesting? Offer a lawful solution, offer to pay for the work and materials, and then you will find consensus in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll drive more pragmaticly. Starting before the first point proposed in the Decision, I would like to ask all chairmen of parliamentary groups to pay attention to their lawmakers to pay attention when adopting the state budget, especially to committee heads. Committee heads who do not know what is proposed and what is voted on in the state budget, I think it is quite unworthy. [[Applause from..We continue the Change..................................................................................... Noise and lines.]] They know who they are, I don't have to point them out. According to the first point it is written that the Road Infrastructure Agency to pay from the approved budget for 2022. I am very glad that there are members of the Budget Committee here and most of them are present in this debate. I don't recall in the budget procedure either in the state budget or in the budget of this ministry in particular, having voted on such an amount. If you remember, correct me. I will therefore also make a proposal for editing of the text. The text cannot remain this way, provided that we want economic growth, and this economic growth is embedded in the capital programme of the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency. If we want economic growth, do not take where an investment should be invested, from which we expect return. That's why I'm proposing. First point: "Agency " Road Infrastructure" to pay from the central budget for 2022 and so on, then follow the text. Point two. The second point is absolutely unclear what is the scope of the opinion that must be drawn up by the Parliamentary Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption, or rather the committee that has already been replaced, which is why I say this because it has been replaced by the replaced Commission on Public Works and so on. What exactly is the scope of this opinion? What if the opinion of this committee contradicts the interdepartmental working group? Is there any chance there's a colosion? Where is this said where in the motives is there a clear and precise indication of whether such a contradiction may arise and who resolves this contradiction? I'm not aware of that. If, for example, the working group finds the actual activity or actual non-execution or whatever it finds, and the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government finds quite otherwise, what do we do in this case? What is accepted and what is put into the plenary is not clear either from the motives or from the second paragraph. In the third point, I also make a proposal for editing in the last sentence, which says: "The payment of the obligations which will arise from the implementation of the activities referred to in the first sentence, to be carried out by the Road Infrastructure Agency from the central budget and not from the approved budget of the Agency. The same goes for point four, last sentence. I ask you very much, when you are making proposals on where to take some funds or on which established budget, first get acquainted with the established budget and then make the proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u71	Mr. Karimansky, I would also ask you, if you could, in the context of the discussion, write this and give it to us, because there may be other proposals. Mrs. Trajanska, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, in relation to what Mr Karimanski said, I will take advantage of the procedure in order to complete his proposal under point two, namely to amend it in the following way: the payments to be made after a decision of the National Assembly on the basis of a report prepared by the interdepartmental Working Group, only for those payments which have been found to be irregularities. This way we can avoid, Mr. Karimansky, what you say about the coliseum between the opinions of the two groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. And I'm going to ask you to give it to us in writing, just so we don't make a mistake, yet here we are talking about very large amounts. Mr. Ganev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u74	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Karimansky, I would ask you to give us some brief explanation here why, if we are currently distributing nearly 3 billion, once again this whole case does not pass through the Budget and Finance Committee? Today it was to be considered and commented, and your coalition brought it in and we are moving on to the moment when the President of the Budget Committee explains to his other coalition partners how there is another oversight, incomplete all proposals. Excuse me, but we're not talking about a kilo of tomatoes here, we're talking about nearly 3 billion. And when you distribute one lev, and when you redistribute one lev, this has to go through the Budget and Finance Committee, this is the most normal and the most natural. Once again, you're putting something in a quarter to twelve and you want decisions to be made, and the chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance is making proposals here. Your entire coalition has eased once again and shows unpreparedness on another significant topic. I really call on you at this point to introduce some order and to have clarity! You internally don't know what you're doing, but you expect our support. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Third line, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u76	Very short, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karimansky, I take this opportunity to make an editorial proposal that I made yesterday at the Commission. A whole second point doesn't need to exist in my opinion. I suggest a second point is dropped entirely. It is not the job of parliamentary committees to verify and verify payments already verified and accepted by the Road Agency. Separately, there's an interdepartmental group watching them, too. So the Commission in the National Assembly again to check the I do not know which check, it is not at all her job to do this thing, and it has no capacity and would slow down very much the verification itself. So, within 30 seconds, I'm just making a suggestion that the whole second point be dropped from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Totev. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u78	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mostly from Mrs Trajanska, I am inclined to accept this proposal, since she is also a member of the Public Works Commission, so, yes, I would accept it. As for the second line, a few things. Firstly, what I said about the budgetary procedure and the adoption of the budget concerns all the parliamentary groups. I'm not excluding you from rebirth, as you don't know that 3 billion is not allocated at the moment. It's nothing like that. I don't know where you saw that $3 billion? The second thing I would like to say again in this regard is that if we make any kind of change or take money specifically from the Road Infrastructure Agency or from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, it is a kind of hidden budget update, which I personally would not allow. A hidden budget update cannot exist and I will not allow it. And it's good to learn all about the budget procedure when you take the floor. As for whether the point has passed through the Budget Committee, you can refer the question not to me, but to the President of the National Assembly how he distributed it. Accordingly, I do not distribute decisions, bills and everything that enters, but the President of the National Assembly distributes them. Either way, it has been allocated and I have scheduled a meeting of the Budget Committee for today, but if today passes this decision, naturally, this point will fall and will remain a single point in the Budget Committee, that is, the second point. So please don't ask me that question. Last of Mr. Totev's. I think this is good, and here it already shows the need for consideration in both the Legal Commission, so that both Legal and Budget competent enough can be spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Once again, I'm going to ask you and Mrs. Trajanska to give the text exactly because we have to be very precise here. I give the floor to Mr. Shishkov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are witnessing another administrative, management and legal absurdity, caused by a political and not a public procurement. This order was awarded with an exact and specific purpose, namely to fabricate the consecutive slanders at the address of GERB during the last election campaign. What's this about? The caretaker prime minister is setting up a working group to create some vices in ongoing road repairs contracts. After long thinking and sucking legal arguments out of the fingers, the working group prepares a report, a report filled with contradictions. The findings of the report are that contracts must be terminated as they have exhausted the limits of their forecast values. These recommendations are despite the explicit clauses in the contract that the quoted limits can be exceeded because it is forecast and not for marginal values, but that is not all, and the working group proposes that the contracts be terminated, note that part of the activities stop being implemented, and for those remaining, the management proposes to provide additional funds over the supposedly exceeded limits. Absolutely nonsense! And despite the absurd Minister Komitova calls all companies and good-for-nothing obliges them to terminate the contracts partially by mutual agreement simply because lawyers cannot find another reason for doing so the road network in the country remains without support. The current Minister of Regional Development is looking for assistance and assistance from the National Assembly to correct the mess involved by the caretaker government, but what is offered to us as a Project for a solution after heavy coalition bargaining, not only does it not fix the damage, but makes even more messy and raises many more questions. Why? Because it is already clear that the National Assembly is not a party to the treaty, and there is no legal basis to change contractual relations. What the minister wants from us is entirely within his powers under Bulgarian law. However, what questions arise by reading this draft decision or its fifth version? First, why will only half of the construction activities carried out and certified be paid out? That's gross interference with contractual relationships. For the rest will be pronounced the Regional Commission with, notice, opinion. Here comes the next question: what kind of act is this? If it's positive, what's next? If it's negative, what's next? If it's neutral, what happens next? What competence does this committee have? Do you know how many road engineers in parentheses are on this committee, colleagues? Zero. Do you know how many construction engineers there are in the Commission? Four of them, two of them from the opposition, one architect and one Urbanist. Are these people expected to check 53 contracts, 278 sites and come up with an adequate opinion?! Colleagues, everything that's going on is completely irrelevant. Next question: why will only the certified activities so far be paid out? What happens to those who are on corpses waiting? Are they burning up? By the way, we do not have accurate information on how many of the activities performed are certified and how many are not, but the fact that such a barrier is being put open opens more questions. The next question is: why will companies producing road signs and marking get 100% of the money? All you have to do is write them down by name in the decision, fellow Members. In conclusion. The decision proposes that the National Assembly extend the existing treaties, which are supposedly vicious and allegedly with exceeded limits. Moreover, by extending the contracts, additional funding will be provided even more overly. After all, that was the reason for them to be terminated, wasn't it, colleagues? I very much hope that the Bulgarian citizens realize that they have once again become hostages to the management infirmity and the ruling coalition. And since the question has been raised, and the country's respected prime minister is wondering what GERB has been doing so far to have three thousand holes on the roads, I recall that the state road network is 20 thousand kilometers away from it 375 km are new highways, 50 km are new speed roads, 70 km are new first-class roads, colleagues. Over three thousand kilometers of rehabilitated roads have been renovated, including second-class and third-class roads in just the last four years. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] There's more pictures. [[Shows photos.]] Before GERB 10 thousand km were in bad condition. A third of them have already been repaired. If all those who have ruled over the last 30 years had done so much, colleagues, we would not be talking about roads today. However, for one year from the brotherhood of the honorable we get: lack of winter maintenance; broken roads and highways; distorted boards; packed in red lane road infrastructure; unfinished objects; bankrupt Bulgarian companies and unpaid salaries of Bulgarian workers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. For the first line Mr. Ivanov, for the second line Mr. Bojankov, and for the third line Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Shishkov, the pride of GERB Roads, repairs. The pride of GERB once again, hundreds of millions sank somewhere. Why? Because, instead of imposing major repairs at twice the prices, current maintenance is being carried out. Current support, which we see in what state it is in. It is no coincidence that another colleague before me said that it was during the management of GERB that the expression of the repair of the claim was called. It is more than obvious to all Bulgarian citizens that the repair of the repair, of the repair and thus until the end of the world is in the interest of GERB. Why? Because they love to award in violation of the Law on Public Procurement, so that they do not win, there is no one to win, because it does not have a public procurement, but is awarded to specific companies activities. And the pride of GERB are those roads for which, Mr. Shishkov, you are talking about a great quality of roads and maintenance. Give these pictures, give pictures of the roads that have become two of the tragedies in recent years, namely the crash of Svoge and the crash of highway Struma. Why did they get up? What did the experts say, remember? Mr. Shishkov, it is very convenient to say what is done, but tell me how it is done. And it's done bad! Svoge's accident occurred due to poor pavement and poorly placed boards. And Struma's crash was due to lack of marking, lack of retro-reflectives, lack of signs. This is the work of GERB! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shishkov, nice work, but German. The truth is that all the steam was in the whistle then.. every day in the central emissions Borisov cuts a tape and says.. and you have always talked about how many tons, how many kilometers. People are driving on these roads and they see that they are poor, they see that they are dangerous, they see that days after the repairs have collapsed and this was the emblem of your management and the demolition and repair of the repairs. I can give you hundreds of examples, and you're probably right about how much money has been spent, and the right word has been used, but the result cannot be covered. He's obvious, and we've been feeling it all on our backs every day for 12 years. I'll give you an example from Veliko Tarnovo. The open and fully renovated road, millions have been spent between Gorna Oryahovitsa and Veliko Tarnovo through the village of Arbanassi, the busiest road, and the road is open with ribbon cutting, folk costumes, bread, menthols, mandatory mentzi, and days after the discovery of the road an increase of the accidents, the traumatism of the section. Then I alerted the organs and everyone said that the drivers were guilty because they were speeding. We've called an inspection by an independent institution. The European Institute of Road Safety 27 pages report. First, the marking does not meet the requirements, signs, bus stop at a crossroads, and the flooring itself does not meet the characteristics of the road. The result has been proven to be an eight-fold increase. What is the purpose of a repair? To reduce traumatic activity. What's the score? Eight times traumatic increase! And now do you know what they're doing? Now it begins, as of yesterday is the news, a new repair of the road, repairing the repair. We're still going to pay for the same section, because in the end, living people are traveling there, and in the first place is the health and security of people. We'll pay for it twice, and we'll pay for it three times in places. I give you a specific example, the facts speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Ananiev, line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u86	Mr. Shishkov, I don't know why you started your speech from the caretaker government. When's the mess? We should start when the mess is in. There's no harm in admitting and saying: yes, there were vicious practices. Admit it, it'll make you feel better, there's no problem with that thing, but hanging out with pictures... You can only boast with pictures because everyone who has been driving on the roads and driving in the last 10 years knows what GERB's legacy is. There is no need to boast with pictures because everyone knows about its infrastructure and condition, about poor construction. When you make a new object, you enjoy three months, and the third month, your car falls apart, or it's closed and shut down because of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u87	Give an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u88	There she is, Maritsa. What? Didn't Maritsa fail?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u89	Mr. Shishkov, you'll have the back, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u90	Yeah, you're gonna have a duvet, so don't show any pictures. I have also called on you in the previous statement to humble yourselves, but if you start, you will start again with the mess that is involved, where is the mess that we now have to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. For a line, Mr. Shishkov, you have the floor. We're out of lines, Mr. Shishkov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start in the order of the replicators. Mr. Ivanov, you are a good lawyer, but you should also read the laws that specialize in construction. The Law on the construction of the territory clearly states which is the main repair and which is the current repair................................................................................................... 43. Look at it, because not everything is about ongoing repairs and not everything is about major repairs. What colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency have entrusted is in line with the Law, so that everything cannot be under the hat of major repairs or be under the hat of the current repair. That's absurd! With regard to the repair of the service. Would you point to a precise section where we built and repaired, because we repaired, as I said, 3,000 kilometers of roads that were built before us?! This is the repair of the repair. There was no public procurement, and we've been talking about public procurement for two hours now, Mr. Ivanov. Two hours we are talking about a public procurement under the law, recognised by everyone, including the Bulgarian court. There is a common statement here that made all replicating that it was not done in quality. Gentlemen replicating, outside are road workers, please come out the three of you and explain to them that they have built the Bulgarian roads poorly, but explain it to them. Tell them you're building poorly. Regarding Mr. Bojankov's line on road safety. Colleagues, in 10 years the road victims in Bulgaria decreased twice from 1100 in 2008. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, These are the facts, colleagues, this is the quality of GERB! And with regard to what Mr. Ananiev said, Mr. Ananiev, the mess is involved by the caretaker government. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u93	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. I give the floor to Mrs Avramova, you have the floor. Are you quitting or what? Mr. Zhelyazkov, you go first. Five or six people are from your group, and I don't know, and maybe you're setting the order in which you're speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The less we politicize the debate, the more it will benefit the same. No one is arguing that the obligations arising for the Road Infrastructure Agency must be paid. Even the draft decision itself speaks of required and liquid liabilities, those that are certified and invoiced, that is to say, it is clear that the obligations must be paid 100%. Here the debate goes in two lines. The first line is to the extent that, in our opinion and not only in our opinion, the proposed decision violates the rule of law and the separation of powers.................................................................................. With this decision the National Assembly intervens in the right sphere of the Council of Ministers. Articles 105 and 106 of the Constitution are clear "The Council of Ministers implements government, domestic policy in the state and implements the budget, and we violate these provisions in the Constitution by this decision. It is clear that the separation of authorities is mutual balancing and control. The National Assembly, which must create the rules for the balance between the three authorities, is in fact intervention in an unacceptable way in the powers of the Council of Ministers. This is the first problem of the draft solution. In fact, parliamentary control proposes the implementation of operational control, and here the question is asked: who will control the guards?Quis sustodiet ipsos custodies, said the Romans? By exercising operational control over the National Assembly on payments, who will control its activities? There was plenty of time for these relations to be settled permanently in a regulatory act. They could have been arranged in the Law of the Roads, could have been in the Rules of Procedure of the API. We prefer to adopt a decision that will have a bad reputation and create an extremely incorrect legal precedent. The National Assembly is asked and is proposed to accept the act sui generis with strange dynamics of the operative. Notice, fellow Members, it is proposed to approve an act which is always subsequent to the legal fact with which certain behaviour arises. It's about approving something that's about to happen! In the administrative doctrine, it is clear that either consent is given or given, but something that is to come is not approved. Because of political opposition, I use the term "Kashkasa" which has already received legitimacy, but in this case it is a legal mess and is looking for an unstable sanction from the National Assembly. One coalition partner proposes the National Assembly to carry out operational control, and the other partner proposes to carry out coalition control. We have 50% that are initially paid, and 50% that are paid additionally by the coalition control, that is, we have the situation fifty "fifty," and in fact the whole debate turns GERB only into a fig leaf for this fifty fifty agreement. What would that lead to, honourable Members? Until the paralysis of management decisions, paralysis of administration, seeking and finding excuses, lack of leadership and, unfortunately, emancipation of the appropriateness over legality. What do we suggest? We want payment 100% of all accepted certified and invoiced activities. We want the Council of Ministers to manage the process in a manner and manner that has been incorporated into it by the Constitution. Once a guarantee is requested from the National Assembly, we will state that we support the outcome with a political message of support, financial empathy and legal confidence. The National Assembly has the power and the basis of the decision to participate in the control process, as well as to build the same with a targeted final act, and this is what we will propose with our Draft Decision, which is actually an editorial amendment and an addition to the proposed project. In this regard, we suggest the following: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary payment actions by the Office of the Road Infrastructure of its required and liquid liabilities, in respect of implemented and certified activities until the time of the adoption of this Decision, entrusted to contracts for the maintenance of... 1 of the proposal of the Committee on Regional Development, Public Works and Local Self-government. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all the necessary action to be taken by the Agency to ensure that new activities under the contracts concluded are carried out to the end, as is the case. 2 of the proposal of the Committee on Regional Development, Public Works and Local Government. 3. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary action, the Road Infrastructure Agency, to ensure the timely and complete completion of all activities undertaken on the basis of current contracts for the maintenance of Republican roads. 4. Instructs the Council of Ministers to determine the order and manner of implementation of points 1, 2 and 3 by quoting within two months of the adoption of this Decision a report to the National Assembly on its implementation, together with a report prepared by the interdepartmental working group for the establishment of the implemented activities, the orders for the introduction of the departmental working group and the position of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government shall be cited. Here you go. [[Applys the text of the decision.]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u95	Thank you, Mr. Zhelyazkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. I give the floor to Mr. Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I fully support the motives and arguments which my fellow Members have presented with regard to the legal nonsense to support this decision, which has been proposed by the government. All these decisions that we are adopting here must be in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the country, including in this case the Public Procurement Act and the Road Law, as well as the Public Finance Act, which is the financial constitution of the state. I'd like to respond to three people talking about the motives that put you out there. First, I address Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, the state was standing up against the wall. It is not the state that is standing against the wall, Mr. Ananiev, that you are standing, the government, with your wrong decisions, assisted by the official governments. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]] You said earlier that the budget was adopted late, so you couldn't make a decision earlier. Where did you spend 9 billion in nine days? lv. At the end of December, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev? [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]] You could have paid those contracts because the conditions you're setting now were at the end of last year. Of these nine billion Bulgarians saw nothing. Where did they go? The finance minister has not yet reported the 9 billion. lv. Mr. Gutsanov was going to give the Nobel Prize. Not only the Nobel Prize, but we can give the one who wrote this draft decision, which has nothing to do with the laws and constitution of the state. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]] Now we'll sign new contracts. Yeah, we'll sign new contracts, but 30% more expensive. Who's gonna pay for it? We Bulgarian citizens will pay them, and who will steal them, there you will say. With this decision you are proposing, you are turning the National Assembly into public budget traders. I don't know if you understand this. Finally, I would like to address Mrs. Guncheva with a doubt about the invalidity of the contracts by some working group, which was created by order of the Prime Minister. Doubt of invalidity! Then there are two signals from Mrs. Comitova and Mr. Karadjov. To where? To the Attorney General's office. What's the answer? There's no record of a crime! I will therefore ask you to let the executive do its job under the laws, under the rights and obligations assigned to it, and to resolve the matter, and we insist on 100% paying for the activities carried out by road construction companies. Let everything be by law and as the Constitution requires. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. First line Mrs. Gutsanov, second line Bogomil Petkov, third line Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I said that you really have to be the winner of the Oscar, so you can go out and talk about a topic that has become a term for 12 years. [[GERB-SDS lines]] , what is corruption on the roads, what is the quality of implementation and what are the prices at which they are being implemented, and indeed the Nobel Prize was not the issue. Perhaps the Nobel Prize should be taken for another contribution. As to who will steal them, that we would say from the new rulers. I'd say you have to tell me who's been abusing so much in these years? How were those lockers filled with gold and bills in the bedroom? How did people comment on draining the state? Why have we come to this situation today the National Assembly is dealing with a problem that is not involved by this government, Mr. Ananiev, and you know it perfectly? As much as the former minister is instructing you right now in this particular specialty, it is clear to everyone that the mess has taken place in one other management and we are currently striving in every way to come to a normal and sensible solution. And I think that if this conversation had not been politicised, and it was spoken in the way that we commented yesterday in the Commission, this decision would have been taken a long time ago and we would have been moving forward long ago. The last thing I'm gonna do is end up with something I said in my first line. It's not normal to have 700 million and sign for 3 billion and 300 million with the clear knowledge that this cannot be fulfilled. Therefore, fellow Members, I suggest that we really essentially talk, finally resolve this issue and this issue, calm down both road companies and go in the right direction for the development of this entire infrastructure, and the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u99	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Bogomil Petkov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ananiev, it has become clear to all of us that orders have been awarded four times over from 700 million to 3 billion and 300, it has become clear to us all that they have been avoided, major repairs have been made under the cover of ongoing repairs... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Mr. Ananiev, I respect you, but let us not manipulate the MPs or you are not prepared with the numbers, and you are a person of the numbers, so I will give you the figures. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Numbers, okay. When you say that 30% of the new contracts for current repairs and maintenance are higher and the money will be stolen, to tell you that there is no such thing. And let me tell you with numbers in the different positions, the most basic ones I'll tell you. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, marginal prices that have already been released as... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And how did you know there would be a 30% increase?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u101	Do not engage in dialogue with the House! Please, fellow Members, there will be an opportunity for a duplicate, so let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u102	Mending of holes and deformation in pavements with non-solid asphalt mixture with an average thickness of 6 cm. It was £22.50. per square meter, currently the marginal prices are released at 25.50 Cold patching of road pavements with bitumen emulsion and pressure fraction, for all related costs from 595 to 535. In the case of bitumen, when the order was played, it was 600, now it is 1000... the increase is 12%. Let me tell you about the rebar. We all know the rebar jumped double... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] For the rebar delivery and installation of marking B500 "2119,93 лв. per tonne, currently the limit price is BGN 2793. The increase of 24%, which is the highest in all TRPs and therefore I fall for it, and it is clear to all of us that the reinforcement jumped twice 100%. Mr. Ananiev, can I give you all 300 prices? I ask, Mr. Ananiev, when the army was twice as cheap as material, and now the price is only 24% higher, is it then stolen money, or are we going to steal money now? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u103	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Third line, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Ananiev! I mentioned a doubt about the invalidity of the treaties because the same is mentioned in the motives of the draft decision, which is by Mr. Nastimir Ananiev and other MPs. Almost every one of the MPs who spoke on this stand also claimed that there was an excess of the value of the contracts and that they were in violation of the law. If there was no such doubt, the case should not be in this Chamber at all, as it is evident that the National Assembly is not a party to this treaty. The Contracting Parties shall be APIs and the respective contractors. And if everything is okay with these contracts, a payment should be made without us dealing with this issue at all. So I ask again: what are these contracts? If they are real, make the payment and end the matter. If they are null and void, which almost everyone expressed, they belong in court and not in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gutsanov, if you knew me, you wouldn't think for a moment that someone could instruct me. If it comes down to the fact that the finance minister is being briefed, then things aren't going well at all. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]] With regard to this, the National Assembly must make such a decision. Look, if this decision is made today, this decision could become a precedent. Tomorrow, each of the sectors, the public sectors in which there is a problem, every minister who cannot handle the management of the system he manages will come here and ask for a solution from the National Assembly. That is why I said that by this decision we are turning the National Assembly into traders of the state budget, which is absolutely unacceptable, and since the laws have said what are the rights and obligations of the executive, and what are the legislative powers. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: It is clear to the Commission who can change public procurement contracts and framework agreements. The National Assembly is not there and should not be there. Imagine, tomorrow we might want to make a decision on how to form sports teams in rhythmic gymnastics, football, etc. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] If we're setting a precedent, it can come to that. Mrs. Guncheva's. Of course I respected your speech, but this is about some doubts about invalidity. If it is proven that these contracts are invalid, illegal, let them go to court, but twice they go to the prosecutor's office and they say there is no record of crimes. Why, then, are we looking at this issue here today? Because some at the end of the year were afraid to fulfill their obligations and pay off the necessary funds for road construction companies. Just out of fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev, Kiril Ananiev. Mr. Ananiev, are you sure you want a personal explanation? I think there are other options after that. Mr. Toshko Yordanov has the floor, after which there will be rest, I warn you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, the proposal made by our MP and chairman of the Budget Committee I regret that Mr. Ananiev, who runs the Committee on Regional Development, does not know that there is no money in the budget for this and will have to take it from his own budget, and then we have to update the budget to restore it. And it must be very clear right now that we will have to do this, otherwise this ministry will start if this goes, with nearly half a billion minus in advance. I also noticed the merry chaos that occurred among our coalition partners after he announced this proposal. And now we're in an interesting situation. Colleagues, Mr. Karimansky's proposal is absolutely accurate, true, correct and fair. It's the truth! On the other hand, knowing the mentality of our coalition partners, it is quite possible that they will then vote against the whole solution and that we will once again block these problems. That is why I propose, in spite of justice and truth, that you and I, together with you, vote against Mr. Karimanski's proposal in order to act in coalition, truly bluntly, but coalitionly, because the problem is large and affects too large a group of people. And I want it to be clear that once this, life and health, goes the way it is proposed, the responsibility for any delays, stalls, problems, do not ask.. because these things are chewed here in Parliament, all those affected, go to Kiril Petkov, Assen Vassilev and PP, DB and BSP. So, colleagues, I suggest we vote as coalition dumb partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u109	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. First line Mr. Karimansky, second line Mr. Tsonev, third line Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Like last week and now my conscience is clear. I'll start with that. Secondly, I withdraw my proposal to make it easier for my colleagues from the "There is such a people" so that I do not put them in an ugly situation to vote and so that the fever in the Council of Ministers and in our coalition partners can calm down that it is not Lyubomir Karimanski who spoils the coalition. There's no such thing. I have said that if the coalition should exist, it must exist under the laws and Constitution of the country. I strictly respect the laws and Constitution of the country, I will continue to abide by them, and I will also follow the budgetary procedure that is coming on the state budget update. I hope so, because this tribune is promised to have such an update, and if it does not, it will be very disturbing for all of us what promises those who have sworn by this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u111	Mr. Karimansky, may I ask: are you withdrawing all your suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u113	Thank you. And does Mrs. Trajanska withdraw hers? [[Replys: She'll think about it.]] She'll think about it, okay, but I'll ask her to give it in writing, because we don't have it yet, and we haven't exactly been able to establish her proposal where it's being made. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Yordanov, I don't know if it's stupid, but in any case, it's unconstitutional, unbudgeted, which means illegal, and if that's relevant to stupid, then it's stupid. Last time we explained very clearly that powers of executive power cannot be transferred to the legislature, even with a decision of the National Assembly, because this violates the balance of the authorities, and this has the right to do so only a Grand National Assembly. This one first. Secondly, to appease your coalition twitches. It was not Mr. Karimanski who proposed, but Professor Chobanov proposed first in this room last time that it could not be paid from the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development, but should be paid from the central budget. I explained shortly before that in the Budget Committee that under the Public Finance Act it cannot be paid. The Law provides funds in the Budget Act for this year to pay obligations arising last year. I just don't know. At times, I wonder what language to explain to you that solving even crisis problems, of any kind, cannot happen in an illegal way. Giving justice can't be done with revenge. Decisions that will decide certain critical relations in society at the moment cannot be done on this path. They must be done in the way it is laid down in the Constitution and in the laws. You don't want to hear it, but you'll hear it the other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Dilov has the floor for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Yordanov, I sincerely congratulate you on this statement. I do not put an irony into it. Now the irony begins. Perhaps, if this decision remains, we should consider, apart from the Regional Commission, that is to say, your parliamentary group is refusing to make editorial proposals, but perhaps some of the other importers will make them think, apart from the Regional Commission, about expressing themselves to the Committee on Religions. Why? Because we have a clear biblical story. This whole bill serves as a fig leaf for Prime Minister Petkov. It doesn't make any sense that the Council of Ministers wouldn't solve this case. Nothing so far has given us reason to doubt the qualities and ability of Minister Karadzhov to handle this task. The whole problem comes from the Prime Minister, let me make it clear to you, gentlemen of importers. And by looking at it a parliamentary committee, contrary to the Constitution, to fiscal laws and to any logic, to look at it and to see it and the Commission of Religious Religions is the same meaning. As we enter into Bible stories, there is a special commission of people with capacity on this subject to be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u117	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. There's a word for the doppelganger, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Dilov, I have nothing to say because what you said in general is true. Yes, unconstitutional is what we will do, or at least I think so, because indeed the executive and legislative authorities are two different authorities, and according to law and democracy they must be independent of each other. That's why I said I suggested to my colleagues that we be coalition faithful and stupid in this situation. Mr. Dilov, I didn't see the irony in what you said. I don't know the facts, when they're ironic, they're ironic. I have nothing to say about it. And as for this, when this decision, life and health is passed, and the ministries and companies are released, and the companies are working, I just want to remind you that we have put in and will insist on setting up, since it will be so, a separate committee from all parliamentary groups that approves payments, the large payments of all ministries, because this committee is currently being proposed because of hints that some deals can be made with this money afterwards. I want to explain clearly to everyone here who either pretends to be crazy or doesn't understand, or I don't know what the exact term is that when you pay a firm 50%, you don't pay her the profits. At best, you paid her the costs and salaries of the workers because, by this logic, this company worked for 10% - it paid both expenses and profits and construction materials. There's no sane person who thinks and who's ever been in the business who doesn't know that that's true. So this is basically a penal operation. Secondly, there is an interdepartmental commission which is with experts from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development, on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development, and these experts will check whether this work has been carried out, how much it would have been paid for. Now here, some committee in parliament, already violating the Constitution, will approve or prohibit the decisions of this committee, which is ours, I am talking to the coalition because it is one of our ministers and our experts. Okay, why? Because some of you are taking the liberty of implying that after all, there would be some scams, hinting at the Ministry of Regional Development. Okay, we're gonna be coalition faithful and dumb, but as it is, let there be a parliamentary committee to ensure that all other payments are fair because 600 million. against 13 billion. I can be stupid, but not that stupid. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. I would like to inform you that in the break of the plenary sitting in the Club of the National Representative, a photo documentary exhibition will be opened from the birth of Prince Alexander I. It is the work of the National Revival Movement of Oborishte and is represented under the motto of Bulgaria in glitter. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Before the break, do you insist it's procedure? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure relates to our proposal, which we are not withdrawing. My request is to be multiplied during the break and to be granted to all Members of the National Assembly, because yesterday we had to verbally memorize two pages of text to the Regional Commission. In this regard, we would like to propose that it be made available to all Members of the National Assembly the proposal that we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u121	Yes, I will ask to multiply your proposal, Mr. Shishkov. On break, we'll have time for that. I'll give you 30 minutes until 12.05 and then we'll continue with Mr. Gutsanov. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u122	I'm resuming the hearing. Borislav Gutsanov is listed for speech. I don't see Mr. Gutsanov in the room. Nikolai Nankov is recorded. I don't see him now either. Mrs. Kanazireva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u123	I want after Nikolai Nankov and Temenuzhka Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u124	Here from your group are recorded Nikolai Nankov and you. And Temenuzhka Petkova, okay. Mrs. Petkova, would you like some? You're welcome to speak, as Mr. Nankov is gone and Mr. Gutsanov is not here first. Manol Genov is on record and I don't see him either. Mr. Gutsanov came if you want to continue with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u125	I won't make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u126	You're not gonna make a statement? I'll cross you off that list then. Next was Nikolai Nankov. Mr. Nankov, for a statement? Okay, Mrs. Petkova. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova. You have one minute group, let's do the extension and it becomes exactly 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u127	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If there is anything positive about the debates that we are having here, with the decision, the few draft decisions that you have presented to us, which, as we understand, are written in the Prime Minister's office. So this positive thing is that the mantra collapsed, that during the reign of the Political Party GERB illegal contracts were concluded. Because, honourable Members, what you want to do right now with this decision, with this draft decision, is to resume the operation of these contracts, which are absolutely legal. Contracts concluded after regular public procurement. In this context, open procedures under the Law on Public Procurement, which are the most public and transparent procedures in all public procurement legislation. Dear colleagues, if there is a problem with public procurement and a problem with contracts, then this problem has been generated, and because the question has been raised here several times before who is guilty, when does this problem start? We must very clearly say it and be acknowledged by everyone that this is a problem that leads to its beginnings from the time of the caretaker government. Then, honourable Members, with some anexes to these contracts, the Minister of Regional Development broke the Public Procurement Act by changing the subject of the contract. They reduced the subject-matter of the contract and the subject-matter of the contracts respectively, amended the terms of the contract and thereby committed one of the most serious infringements of public procurement legislation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am convinced that, one day, the bodies in charge of the Court of Auditors, the State Financial Inspection Agency, will carry out an inspection and will be sanctioned by all those responsible officials who violated procurement legislation. And now, honourable Members, you want with an unconstitutional decision that you are proposing to us to correct one mistake of the caretaker government, but this cannot happen because what you want is beyond the competence of the National Assembly. All these decisions are within the competence of the executive and let the executive be so good as to take responsibility because governance, honourable Members, is primarily carrying responsibility. When we ruled, we had this responsibility and nothing to be ashamed of today. So let the executive assume its responsibility. To make the necessary decisions as the Constitution and the laws of the country dictate and to repay immediately, not 50%, but 100% of the activities carried out by the construction companies that are currently protesting, and for good reason, because you have delayed the payments completely to them. You literally pushed them against the wall to sign during the caretaker government these anexes to the contracts, and these people are currently standing up against the wall. The government must pay them 100% immediately under the contracts for their work, not 50%, do not deceive them with that 50%. They have to be paid 100% now and now. If the executive cannot take this responsibility and cannot handle this task, honourable Members, there is another way out and this outcome is called resignation. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Replices to Temenuzhka Petkova? Borislav Gutsanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please stop a little, gentlemen of the Political Party GERB. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Can you make such a request if there were 710 million?! How many times do I have to say the same thing? You signed for 3 billion and 300 million, which is five times that, and now you're saying, "Pay everything right now." Please, let's slow down a bit, make a decision to fix something you've done, and we're wondering how to get out of this situation right now. Mr. Ananiev, with the utmost respect for you, you spoke just now about the Oscars. Yes, we really need to become winners of the Oscar, excuse me, the Nobel Prize, if we can fix what you've done in these years. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u130	Second line from Nikolai Angov. You're speaking, Mr. Nankov, aren't you? All right, whoever in a group wants to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Petkova, you haven't been in power for a year and you're starting to fall apart. Organized crime has begun to disintegrate you. And your entire corrupt organization is falling apart. And here's what you want us to pay: I'm showing a picture. [[shows a picture of a road with holes and patches]] I personally made it near Ihtiman. It's a big hole that's been patched up. Then by chance another hole appeared in the patch, it was patched up and then another patch in the patch. You're currently trying to blackmail us by holding both the workers and the drivers hostage for the illegal things you've done. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Not from where I'm standing! Not from a place, enjoy it while you still have these places, because soon you may not have them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u132	Mr. Angov, first of all, just to say accusations like your corrupt organization are not suitable for the parliamentary stand. And hints about the seats in the National Assembly in one direction or another, they are made regularly by the parliamentary tribune, too, please avoid. The third line is Nikolai Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Petkova! You really made the best legal explanation possible for the whole case. The mantra 730 million estimated value, 3 billion allocated.. You explained it too well when talking about estimated and marginal value. However, we have not assessed the estimated value in our auction committees. As they have, by the way, done in their procurement assignments for the new current repairs, where we see that Mr. Ananiev said 30% higher prices. It is even more striking that contracts that are concluded by those with the revolutionary flames that have faded us, on some of the feathers we have an increase in prices from 2018, 2019 by 90%, Mrs. Petkova, nine times! Not 20, 30. So, what are these inflation processes?! What are these inflation processes?! According to the gentlemen ruling the PP in the last election campaign of these contracts in their logic 40% was stolen. According to your data, last year's inflation and this one's estimated in the State Budget Act is roughly 20%. I mean, why increase the forecast values of unit prices that are marginal, which cannot be exceeded in the new procedures for ongoing repair and maintenance by another 30%? Answer that question. You can also very well make your elementary arithmetic. And one more very important thing. We are talking here about recognised expenditure on certified activities, not by the previous regular government and the then management of the Road Infrastructure Agency, but by Violeta Komitova's first and second official government. In her signed anexes and the then head of the Road Infrastructure Agency, who, by the way, Mr. Karadjov, the deputy prime minister, yesterday at the commission said that he had fired API by finding out about these prices and about this contract for the motorway of Europe by nine times increased single prices of our prices. He mentioned that he had fired him precisely for exceeding those prices. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u134	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Mr. Nankov, should I understand that you will not make a statement, or will there be a statement? There's no statement, thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u135	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gutsanov, perhaps I do not know how to explain once again everything related to the public procurement by the Ministry of Regional Development. Procedures have been opened under the Law on Public Procurement and in this contract, in the documentation and in the draft contract to it, and subsequently it is very clear in the contracts concluded that this is not a limit value, this is an estimated value. The limit is only the value of single prices. So stop abusing how much the contract is about. The contract does not have a limit value, it has an estimated value. Understand that once and for all. Understand that once and for all. There's no way that's gonna happen. The problem came with the illegal anexes signed by Minister Komitova. This must be made clear to the Bulgarian citizens. This is a gross violation of the Law.. changed the subject matter of public procurement and the conditions under it. This is one of the most serious violations of the POP. Do not look at the limit and estimated value, watch what is a breach and the control authorities will undoubtedly identify it. Regarding Mr. Angov's line. Mr. Angov, well, almost one year GERB is not in power and there is no tile placed, neither by the caretaker government, nor by you. So, indeed, the state of the road has been dramatic since the administration of the caretaker government and your government. So do whatever you need to do and take the role of governor and do the work that people have sent you here to do. As for the insulting remark used by you for a corrupt organisation, I will tell you that you have no right to speak after it has become clear what the Ministry of Energy has signed under the Prime Minister's title with the Jem Corporation. All the energy you put on the counter and all the energy is in the hands of an unknown firm, an offshore company. So don't talk to me about a corruption organization. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Nankov, you are absolutely right in what you say. I share and accept your line, but I hope my colleagues will finally understand that when it comes to public procurement, we have an estimated value and a limit value. In our case, it's about prognosis, colleagues. Remember that well. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mrs. Kanazireva, come in for a statement. You have about five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u137	Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. Mrs. Petkova, the truth is that today we have witnessed another empty conversation with common clichés and political slogans and nothing concrete, which in fact lies an absolute irresponsibility and incompetence. Colleagues, today you are preparing to adopt an entirely unacceptable decision outside the authority of the National Assembly. A decision which is within the authority of the MPD and API alone. Of all your stories, you have confirmed only one of these contracts are real and are currently being worked on. Apart from that, they are annexed by the Minister of the Service, which recognises their action, and the amounts due under those contracts are also recognised. Accordingly, only APIs have the power to claim whether the contract is valid, whether payment is due, to stop and to refuse. How will the National Assembly interfere with some bilateral contracts concluded between API and the respective contractors? Where are we going to pay 50%, and the others will be revised by committee. Gentlemen in charge, you are turning this committee into a racketeering commission that will actually decide which firm to pay and which firm to refuse to pay. In view of this, we believe that this decision is clearly outside the competence of the National Assembly and we cannot take sides and intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. Replices from Iskren Mitev, and Jordan Terziyski after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Kanazireva, the real racketeers are you and you were those racketeers who put the Bulgarian companies on their knees to beg you to give them contracts, to twist their hands, to forget their morality so that they could feed their family. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS, applause from]] That's what you did by forcing them to do for years and years of contracts from 2009, not giving them money, putting them according to a contract. And now you know what you're doing? You're asking us to pay this bill with the money you filled your party bank with. You want the Bulgarian people to pay your bill, but it won't work your way, Mrs. Kanazireva. Thank you. It's you, you're the racketeers! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u140	Colleagues, let's keep the good tone of the discussion, essentially without accusations, as I said just now. Second line, Jordan Terziyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u141	Mrs. Kanazireva, I think that in the previous discussion last week, and today the facts became clear in the greatest detail, Mr. Gutsanov, Mr. Ananiev repeated them quite specifically, but I think that the most accurate diagnosis today was given by Mr. Simeonov, although it was in a completely different context, and this is again the cognitive dissonance we are talking about. Because you both understand the problem, and you obviously don't want it to be solved and, of course, the goals to become chaos. You know who made this mess, and you're looking for blame in everyone else, but not you. You criticize and do not support the decision, and yet you have at least a million reasons to hope that it will be accepted by us. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u142	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u143	Mrs. Kanazireva, a few things have actually become clear. First of all, the contracts are legal. Secondly, the work is done and someone has to pay them, and they have to be paid 100% for what they have done. And thirdly, the fierce rage with which this decision, which is unconstitutional, is being defended at the moment, has its roots and its foundation at the beginning of this governing coalition, where someone, becoming prime minister, had already violated the Bulgarian Constitution. Please don't make us so zealously repeat these mistakes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mrs. Kanazireva, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u145	Mr. Mitev, I'll address you first. I don't know how long you're going to justify everything about your really complete incompetence and inability to rule the country, but when we talk about racketeering and all the insults you've made again, I'm going to ask you the following, which not a few of us put you: where did nine billion go in nine days? Where, when and how long do you intend to draw another half billion leva each Monday? Where did the fiscal reserve go? Where did Bulgaria's money go in just a few months? When in this National Assembly will you finally submit a decision on an ongoing public matter? [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] No. Lying, Mr. Ananiev, is only what you said, led by your Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Who made the mess? You're messing with each other. You don't need us at all, and you don't need our help. In each case you are so entangled that you do not have a clear concrete solution. Who asked you to submit this decision to the National Assembly, provided that you have signed contracts, provided that they are recognised, the amounts due to them are recognised by both a minister of service and a subsequent minister, provided that under these contracts you even want to assign more activities? How will the National Assembly pay 50% selectively, and 50% will stop under contracts on which we have not even seen them in the National Assembly and the anexes you comment on only between you, and where does this committee, whatever it is, interfere in bilateral contractual relations, on what basis? And in view of what has been said that we have a proposal, Mr. Zhelyazkov only 20 minutes ago here, from this tribune, clearly, precisely and specifically offered you our solution and our appeal is only to respect the laws and Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Of course, it's hard for you. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because there isn't a week, there isn't a day when you don't step in and break both the Constitution and the laws. Not us, you're really creating a corruption scheme...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u146	Time, Mrs. Kanazireva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u147	...clothed in the listed committees in your pseudo-decision, which is a complete butaphory, and you hide only behind it your incompetence to deal with anything in Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u148	Mrs. Kanazireva, you forgot your card. Mrs. Kanazireva, you forgot your card! And just now, when I called for a good tone, it was on both sides.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u149	I always try.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u150	I want results. The effort's fine. Mr. Genov, come in. Are there others for speeches after Mr. Genov? I'm also recording Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I want to continue Mrs. Kanazireva's words with the answer to who made the mess, and Mr. Zhelyazkov used it. Everyone knows who made this mess. Apparently in this room, and in the former rulers there are good chefs, they were able to handle this task perfectly because you see that now this knot, which must be scattered, has been given many solutions. But I want to go back to some quotes that have been used here by colleagues for the formulation of current repairs. When all the major repairs on the roads were assigned to current repairs contracts, I want to make some clarity. When you pour out the asphalt, you break the road structure. When you put curbs on and alter the taking of water off the highway, these are significant deviations. Here from this tribune some explained that you see, the ones under art. 63, p. 5, I think it was, the wording of the current renovations was something like that. Here we saw the classic example. With these contracts, you're putting in current repairs, major repairs. You're doing major repairs that lead to a substantial change because there was an excuse: the route didn't change. Of course, the highway route cannot be changed, a new bridge on it cannot be done, so I want to remind the contracts, as has been said many times, have been concluded 2018. I will also make one deviation about the prices. Yes, the prices for the new procedures are about 30% higher, it was about that, but a classic example if we go back. Roundabout Road of Plovdiv, for 14 km "25 million." How were prices determined when this was awarded? What Mr. Bojankov gave a characteristic of the one time here from the stands a few hours ago also applies to this time. It was necessary to carry out a safety inspection on this road, I just don't want to mention the findings and what was found by competent and non-governmental authorities that were conducting road audit. But so much so far. Let's get back to the wording. So we conclude these contracts, we assign these contracts, and in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, I think it was December, in the latest amendments to the Law on Structure in the territory, there is an addition. The wording, just to say, which was amended in 2021, with the amendment of the Law on the Construction of the Area published in the Official Journal, was since 2003. Someone did not like this wording at the time and read to you what was added. Only one sentence is added: The current repair of construction is also the improvement and maintenance of the technical infrastructure elements under art. 64, para. 1 in which the route and technical characteristics do not change.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can tell you what the result of this vote was. We at the BSP opposed this thing to being adopted in the Commission, we voted against. We also had a proposal to cancel this, but then the coalition had the necessary majority and made a legislative indulgence with this legislative decision, which, adding another wording of the current renovations, managed to somehow bind the legislative outrage already in the form of ongoing repairs to major repairs. That's it, guys. I will really join Mr. Gutsanov's words, they seem to have caused a lot of emotion in you, but let's be humble. There was a protest, there were people waiting for their money. Why were they signaling and marking? Well, you're all on the road, look what's going on. Yesterday I went to Trakia Motorway. Those traveling on it yesterday can see the punctures in several places that are caused by heavy truck accidents are surrounded by red ribbons. Yeah, they're surrounded by red plastic stripes because you can't deliver a new guard, and it can't be mounted either. Cosmetic support is being made on the road, with such catastrophes clearing the canvas, winter maintenance, as has become clear, and Minister Karadzhov of this tribune has shared these activities several times, that they have been carried out in emergency mode, so, colleagues, let them not be 100%, let them be 50%. Let there be control, too, because, as it comes down to prices, maybe the rabbit will come out of somewhere. Somewhere, let's say the asphalt wasn't 120 leva. With the laying, 130? Could it have been 300? Do we know what's gonna come out of these checks? And we will pay this amount to these companies, who, in fact, with the consent of the government, have deceived the state, and the difference where it went and how it went is a question of interpretation, hypotheses and assumptions, that all needs to be proved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u152	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Replices to Manol Genov? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. No, there's time for a line, there is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Genov! You mentioned here a change of legislation in 2021. Let us explain it to Bulgarian citizens and colleagues. The managers then "GERB" award current repairs, after which in the form of current repairs award major repairs, you say? And 2021 amended the Law, where they say what is ongoing repair and what is major repair. I mean, what are they doing? They bring in the corrupt practice they've done with the award, the violation of the Law, the 700 million, a colleague asks how they've become 3.5 billion. Well, that's what happened when instead of painting your bathroom, the sticky tile of 2,000. BGN, the repair is 5 thousand. BGN, when instead of current repairs you are placing major repairs, five times the estimated value is increased. However, none of you has said what is the maximum possible? Everyone said it was estimated value, but there was some kind of maximum. So what's this maximum of three, five, ten times? Mr. Ananiev, as Finance Minister maybe he knew? How much could it be charged to? Could it have been up to 70 million? Could it have been 700 million, for example? So, Mr. Genov, the corruption that we've been talking about for four or five years in this room that it's staked in the Law, so you're saying it's legal. It is legal, of course, only that corruption is enshrined in the Law and this thing must be changed, colleagues, so that after a while we cannot be accused that we through the legislation are bringing corruption, which some are then taking advantage of. Mr. Genov, please explain once again how exactly the main repairs are being repaired and how 700 million becomes 3.5 billion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line to Manol Genov? Atanas Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, Mr. Svilensky, thank you very much for the clarification we really needed. We, as younger and less experienced parliamentarians, will try to summarize what we have now. A party has ruled three mandates, truely not consecutively, and during these three terms boasts that it will build us such roads and highways, that they will last us 100 years, they will remain decades behind. To repair his own roads and highways, he set 700 million and spent 3,300 million. Is everyone here with me? One year after this party goes out of power, the leader of this party counts three thousand and beak holes on the road from Sofia to Dobrich on these eternal roads that we should have left as an inheritance from this party, which are drilled like Swiss cheese. So, how are these roads built? How'd they get repaired? Of what quality? And, of course, the eternal question: where is the money? But I'm not showing the jeep. This time, this time, this time, I won't show it, because we all know where the money is, gentlemen, and there are ladies. Last but not least. Once they have fallen out of power, they have created one, can aunts-GERB not shout! Is there any way that aunts-GERB can stop screaming?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u156	Mr. Mihnev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u157	Once they've dropped out of power...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u158	Mr. Mihnev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u159	...they have created such a Batak that the Minister does not dare to sign the repairs because the Batak is so big that it needs a sanction from the National Assembly. And the man is absolutely right! And what, go out and say GERB: return us to power, we this batak that we created it, this mess that they cooked, so we don't use a worse word, we know how to fix it the fastest. Yeah, except here we don't want the four parties to fix it the fastest, but in the best way so that it doesn't get stolen, so that this batak never comes back. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u160	Mr. Mihnev, this address was not acceptable. Absolutely. Third line to Manol Genov? Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u161	We are continuing the Change. Colleague, there are people here, for example Mr. Baltov, Mr. Angelov, who were in the jeep and were passing this route. How come they didn't see holes then, I don't know? And now all of a sudden they're open?! Mr. Svilensky, it's very simple. You make a $50 million contract, and we're gonna charge you this time, but look over there, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this, Indeed, for these reasons, with the additional awards, as you rightly formulated that the current repairs somehow gave birth to these contracts, which went to heavy equipment on the road infrastructure, where a lot of money is needed. But, as it turns out, these assignments, have they been made in writing, have they been made on the phone yet to be understood in what way have these assignments been made? From there Mr. Svilensky, we have a little lizard financially, which in time with the extra repairs being awarded, it becomes a crocodile, but it becomes a crocodile that has no financial collateral. This crocodile remains in the air unpaid, not even in the Nile river can swim, because there is not enough financial collateral and now this crocodile faces this government and sets out tasks that are difficult to resolve and as we have seen, no one has taken responsibility to go to the prosecution afterwards because he will be immediately called. There was a proposal here from this tribune, one of the colleagues from GERB to become the manager of the Road Agency for at least one day after having such the courage to sign. I regret that we are already moving the control over the Regional Commission, because then Mr. Bikov was outraged, he, as a member of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Commission, will carry out non-existent activities, but ultimately Mr. Shishkov said that there is some expertise and experience in this committee, so I think she will be able to handle it. Mr. Svilensky, this is the explanation for the increase in these amounts to this size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u162	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Abrovski for procedure. And Mr. Donchev, you too for procedure? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of "There is such a people" we want a 30-minute rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u164	Okay, I'm taking 30 minutes off until 1:20. I'm recording Tomislav Donchev for procedure. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u165	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. For the procedure please come in, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u166	Mr. Chairman, my reply is to you because you have an obligation other than to observe the Rules, except to generate and maintain order in this House, to try to moderate the meaning of speaking, and you are often in the situation of trying to manage the nonsense. And I say it with sympathy and empathy to you. This procedure, if there is no concrete proposal in it, would make sense of nagging, and I wouldn't want to pick a fight. First of all, I was thinking of explaining to the honourable hall what flatus vocis means, because a lot of the speeches here have a much more connection to pneumatics than rhetoric. But then I decided to make a concrete proposal. Mr. Chairman, there is a very old, wise saying that says: "Before you say anything, make sure it is not better to be silent. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u167	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. For a reverse opinion, Mr. Ananiev? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It has been pointed out to me that the Commission report, in the decision itself, does not reflect one of the corrections that we voted on in the Commission yesterday. In fact, yesterday was edited by Mrs Trajanska in the Commission, then I repeated all the editorials that were nine, and in fact one of the editorials was not reflected in the report itself. I just want to make this a technical mistake and consider how to approach it. That's t. 3. In fact, the Commission's what we are and it's in the transcript, we've finished the sentence on point. The Agency's established budget, point (b) of Article 3. In fact, in the order of point. 2 of the decision is to be dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u169	Okay. We'll consider that an editorial proposal. The draft decision annexed to the Regional Commission Report, including The following point shall be inserted after the point of entry and deleted by the order of reference: 2 of the decision................................................................................................ Mr. Tsonev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Interesting suggestion made by your colleague Donchev, original. But back to today's decision, which is a decision from last week, from last night, and as I can see, with the ongoing editorials, we may have to put another point: the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86 decided to authorize the quadruple coalition after adopting the decision to edit it as it found appropriate and then to release it in the Official Journal. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] It's a joke, but it's not funny. Today, as in the previous debate, we are seeing the same.. the opposition and the ruling parties argue on the substance of the problem. There were some contracts that were not to some extent legal or correct, or... a hundred terms were used. By the way, colleague Zhelyazkov made the most precise definition and discussion of the legal side of the question, but there was no one to listen to it, either last time or this time. On the other hand, GERB in this case claims that everything is fine, and these contracts must be met with one word. We claim the same from the first moment that it is not about who created the problem and if there is a problem. It is about being given to the authority of the National Assembly, functions which it does not have and cannot be given a decision, and powers cannot be transferred to the executive power of the legislative body. We therefore proposed that the decision be such that it does not, in fact, contain a transfer of such powers but, on the contrary, the National Assembly will oblige the executive to fulfil the powers and obligations it has under Constitution, by law and by the Rules of the Council of Ministers. We hoped you'd hear the voice of reason. When the first decision entered, which the IHN introduced, somehow pò seemed repairable, good or slightly repairable. But there's another edit from Mr. Ananiev, who brought us back to last week's situation, we'll look back here, we'll determine, there'll be anti-corruption... Not to dwell on everything because I'm wasting the National Assembly's time. Everything was said last week by my colleagues and me and everyone. But I will try to tell you what psychological situation we are in, and I will use what some colleagues have put as a topic since morning for collective dissonance, at all for this term, which was introduced by Leon Festinger 65 years ago and is simply a contradiction to our cognitive system or a cognitive contradiction. Many examples are given. I will use what my colleagues have said to illustrate the situation we are in. And the example given with collective dissonance is: I smoke smoking is harmful. I need to get my cognitive system in sync with both of these. The options are two or I will stop smoking, or I will stop accepting that smoking is harmful. There's a collective consonant where the two parts are in balance, let's say: I'm a good student, I regularly prepare. However, there is a third reasoning, and it is called relevance when you can say for example: I am a good student, smoking is harmful. One has nothing to do with the other. You're in this situation, colleagues from the PP. The colleagues from GERB are in consonance. They think the contracts are okay, they have to be executed and there's no conflict with the cognitive system. However, you have and want to solve it through relevance. Contracts aren't okay. We'll solve them by not deciding who has to solve them, but someone else. You don't solve things with relevance, you decide, I'll tell you again, the way it's described in the Constitution, the laws and so on. The decision, once again, to tell you for the last time, must contain several points - one, two or three to oblige the executive authority, in the face of the Council of Ministers, the ministry concerned, the relevant interdepartmental commission and so on, to fulfil its powers. That's what we need to do. And if there is a legal obstacle to fulfilling its powers so as to resolve the newly created situation, to change this obstacle, we are then on the move. It is good to change it by changing legislation, but if we do not have time and can not, we can with a decision give a small loophole in which to resolve this. Everything from there is a transfer of responsibility, a violation of the Constitution, laws and so on, and it will lead to nothing. It'll lead to legal absurdity. As from this tribune, April warned that the National Assembly could not impose moratoriums on the actions of the executive, which were given to it by the Constitution, here on the left they did not hear us at all, mind your own business, we can do anything. And two months in the country, nothing three, more than two, until the Constitutional Court's ruling came out, I think it was September, the executive power was absolutely blocked. Well, the Constitutional Court's decision was that we were right and that it wasn't right on the left side of the room that imposed it. So what? The Constitutional Court's decisions do not have a retroactive force and the state's blockage. But since there's no punishment for the one who forced it, well, you might have to. And now there's no penalty. We will adopt a decision that will violate the Constitution, create a legal absurdity, a legal precedent that will benefit from and the next governments will not be sanctioned. Sanction is for people, for business. And let me tell you something that you love very much, especially Kiril Petkov and Assen Vassilev. The charge is for the investment climate. That's no way to create an investment climate. So you can only bring in investments like the one-billion-dollar one with the memory note. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u171	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Iskren Mitev. [[Noise and lines.]] No shouting, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I agree with you that there is a contradiction and it is very big. On the one hand, the person who has to make this decision cannot because he immediately becomes a client of the prosecution. On the other hand, we have some people who have been racketeering and blackmailing the Bulgarian business for many years, promising to give him contracts. And now they haven't paid in time, they've left these contracts in the state they're in, and now they want us to pay them. And the big contradiction from my point of view is how to give the money to the people who did their job without giving money to the people who want to abuse them and did it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u173	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u174	I wouldn't allow myself to make Mr. Mitev's ass because... [[Laughter]] But he asked for a solution. I'll try to help again. The solution is by adopting a decision which obliges the executive to conclude the annexes in order to continue maintaining the roads. Regarding payment, Mr. Mitev, there are organs that say whether one thing is right or wrong. Let's say the Court of Auditors, ADPI. There's also a judicial system. We don't need the guy who's gonna pay to make him a client of the D.A.'s office. Although it is the one who will pay, and his supervisor have seriously stepped up to this institution with certain actions. But this is not a matter of discussion now. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]] Otherwise, I'll tell you who. That's why he won't step up to the DA's office. It is enough to call his lawyers and do it properly... is not a problem. Because we're a collective body and we can't become a client of the prosecution, so we break the law and the Constitution, right?! Then why do we need executive power? Then perhaps we will have to agree to the absurd ICN proposal to set up a committee to decide which is corrupt and what is not corrupt in terms of payments and in terms of the authorising transactions of the chief authorising officers by means of the budget. That's what we should do then. Otherwise, any minister who disposes of funds is a potential client of the prosecution. [[Reply.]] There is a solution, and I tell you again: it is described there. If there is a legal vacuum because life is much more diverse than legal norms, we are here to fill the legal vacuum. Sometimes we have done it quickly in 24 hours, two readings in one sitting, but again in order! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any other speeches? Come in for a statement, associate professor Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u176	DECLARATION on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today at the National Assembly was held a meeting of MPs and members of the Foreign Policy Committee with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Mr. Dmitro Kuleba and his delegation. At the centre of the discussion was the issue of providing all necessary assistance to Ukraine, including military assistance. The representative of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine, who is also a member of the Ukrainian parliament "Mr. Kise," said that Russian aggression in Ukraine also killed many people of Bulgarian origin. And Mr. Kisse insisted on providing military assistance. Minister Kuleba made it clear:.. Ukraine will win this war 100%....This courage, daring, bravery sees the whole world. Therefore, we are obliged to consider the possibility of military technical assistance to Ukraine so that the Ukrainian people can protect the lives, freedom, honour of their citizens from Russian aggression. For us, it is unbearable to watch war crimes, the genocide that is taking place, torture, rape, the killings of civilians, which the foreign minister mentioned. Each country is as big as its dignity. In this sense Bulgaria is not a small country. How big we are depends on our ability to understand the scale of this historic moment, not our territory, even less on the timidity of certain political forces and their leaders. We cannot go on Easter vacation with calm hearts until we consider the decision to provide military technical assistance to Ukraine. That is why we insist that it should be dealt with in today's foreign policy committee at 15.00 p.m. today. In addition, we insist that humanitarian aid to Ukrainian refugees should not stop, as applied by representatives of state institutions. It is our duty as a state of recognition of democratic and universal human values to provide all the help of the people fleeing the aggressor. We believe that Bulgaria will show solidarity and remain true to its historical and civilisational choice. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u177	Thank you, Professor Slavov. In the discussion on point one, are there any more willing to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be gluttonous. I'll take my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u180	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u181	You have little time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, with a proposal based on art. 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm making an offer under art. 60, para. 2, p. 3 for a clear vote by standing out of place in a roll call in alphabetical order of the draft decision proposed to us by the Regional Commission Report. I believe, honourable Members, Mr President, that this shameful decision for Bulgarian parliamentaryism should not remain anonymous but be visible who is behind it. I submit, as required by the Rules of Procedure, the proposal with the signatures of our parliamentary group. [[Passing it to President Nikola Minchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u183	Bring him into the Office!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u184	It's not imported into the Office!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u185	Thank you. There's a procedural proposal. We'll put him to the vote, too. Mrs. Atanasova, it only concerns the proposal you submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u186	It is the proposal of the Committee on Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u187	To the Commission's editorial when we get there, then be... Okay. When we get to him, then I'll put your procedural proposal to the vote. Colleagues, we have two draft decisions tabled, so we will have to vote separately. We will start with the draft decision, which is not supported by the Regional Commission, submitted by Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs. I vote on the draft decision submitted by Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Regional Commission. Vote 157 MPs: for no, against 25, abstention 132. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next draft decision, which has a significant number of editorial amendments, including it is edited by the Regional Commission itself. Since the project submitted by Rosen Zhelyazkov contains the most editorials and is therefore most important as changes, we will start with it. I'll read it before we go to the vote, because I'm not sure if the whole of the discussion was read in the course of the discussion: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary payment actions by the Agency for Road Infrastructures of its required and liquid obligations under fulfilled and certified activities until the date of adoption of this Decision, entrusted to maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations) on Republican roads, including repairs to individual road sections, repair of bridge facilities and tunnels, and to pay all financial obligations arising from contracts for the supply and installation of restrictive systems, on contracts for the production, supply and installation of road signs and on contracts for marking on the territory of the Republican road network, as well as on obligations under monthly and extraordinary contracts for the maintenance of Republican roads. 2. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary action on the award by the Agency of Road Infrastructures of new activities under the contracts concluded to ensure maintenance (preventive, winter and repair works in emergency situations) of Republican roads, supply and installation of restrictive road systems, horizontal marking and of contracts for the production, supply and installation of road signs with permanent and variable vertical signalling sizes of Republican roads for the period until new contracts with the object concerned have been signed, with contractors selected as a result of open procedures under the Public Procurement Act carried out in 2022 but not later than 30 September 2022, including, where necessary, additional agreements to the contracts under point (c). 1, with a duration of no later than 30 September 2022 3. Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary action, the Road Infrastructure Agency, to ensure the timely and complete completion of all activities undertaken on the basis of current maintenance contracts (preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations) on Republican roads. 4. Instructs the Council of Ministers to determine the order and manner in which it is carried out. 1, 2 and 3 by submitting a report to the National Assembly on its implementation within two months of the adoption of this Decision, together with a report prepared by the Interdepartmental Working Group for the establishment of the implemented activities (created by Order No RD-02-14-160 of 7 February 2022 of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Order No LMF-91 of 7 February 2022 of the Ministry of Finance) and an opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. This is the project, as amended by Rosen Zhelyazkov. If we accept it, we will not move forward with others, as it is the most significant amendment. Voting mode. Vote 215 MPs: for 67, against 94, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. The next editorial amendments are from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 1 number to be replaced by Two down. I'm putting them to the vote together because they're meant to be bound. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. To be replaced by.100.................................................................................................. 2 dropped completely. They voted 211 MPs: for 73, against 123, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We move on to Ivan Totev's proposal, that is. Two down. We are voting on Ivan Totev's proposal to drop the item. 2. They voted 212 MPs: 53, against 116, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. The latest editorial proposal is by Nastimir Ananiev. 3 of the draft decision, as in the Regional Commission Report, at the end of the point to delete the text in accordance with paragraph 1. 2 of the Decision, respectively, to end the sentence after the......................................................................................... is placed a point. We are voting on the proposal of Nastimir Ananiev. Vote 160 MPs: 124, against 23, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. With this we have exhausted the editorial proposals and are going to vote on the draft decision, as edited by the Regional Commission. If it is accepted in this form, we will not move on to the main proposal, as we did last week. Here comes the proposal of GERB-SDS to carry out the vote by getting up from the place of roll call in alphabetical order and answering with a reply with a.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This procedural proposal I'm putting to the vote. Vote 216 MPs: 79, against 124, abstention 14. The procedural proposal is not accepted. We move on to the draft decision in the version of the Regional Commission in line with the editorial proposal. 3, which we have already accepted, I am putting it to the vote. Vote 159 MPs: 122 against 35, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for an explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow lawyers in this Chamber! If a doctor comes in sick and has appendicitis, if a doctor says he has to cut off his left leg, all the other doctors will get together, they will say that this colleague is an incompetent and they will expel him, he will not work anymore. If an engineer in a design organisation obviously designs a bridge that will fall, the other engineers will expel him and he won't be able to practice anymore. However, if some lawyer in the Council of Ministers says that a decision must be adopted that violates the Constitution, all the prestigious lawyers in parliament shake their hands and say: "Well, what do we do, we have to protect the coalition?" Colleagues, the more humiliating discussion for our profession and the more humiliating decision I have not attended. I hope you too, I hope, are ashamed of those who understand what happened. But there will be consequences. You know, colleagues, when you create tensions in an electrical circuit, you put fuses in it. That's why the fuses are put in so it can shut down the electrical circuit. We warned you that long ago you should have turned off the fuse Rashkov didn't turn it off. Now we are telling you very urgently to turn off the fuse Lena Borislavova. [[Sighs:?!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u189	Mr. Cholakov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u190	And you're not going to turn it off. We understand that she said that decision to accept it because she said so! You are about to turn off the fuse Cyril Petkov. Think when you'll turn it off, because if you don't turn off those fuses, colleagues, the main fuse will blow up the parliamentary majority. [[Heckling]] And it's gonna blow. Mr. Tomislav Donchev a few days ago said we talked, all the problems that this government is creating, have a solution, we will find a solution to them both the financial crisis and the debts that you create. What will take decades to decide is the moral debauchery that you are creating. [[Noise and lines.]] So, fellow Members, we will see you at the Constitutional Court, where we will prove to you that you know nothing about law, and we will sort out the moral legal debauchery you are creating. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u191	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Moving on to point two of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYMENT DEPRECTION. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Mr. Nedyalkov will present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 47-254-01-29, submitted by Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs on 17 March 2022. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its meeting held on 13 April 2022 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act No 47-254-01-29. The meeting was attended by Juliet Varljakova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Iskren Angelov, Director of Labour Market and Labour Mobility and Marieta Georgieva, advisor in the political cabinet of the Minister of Education and Science, and Vanya Tivisheva, interim acting director of the Directorate of Professional Education and Training. The bill was presented by the MP Denitsa Sacheva. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to meet the needs of targeted work to activate workers who do not work, study and are not registered in the labour bureaus. The proposed amendments relate to the regulation of the possibility of exchanging information between institutions responsible for the administration of data on persons aged 16 to 65 in order to identify their place of residence, which will allow labour offices to make contact with economically inactive persons. Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the collection and processing of personal data in order to carry out public tasks is thus complied with. The proposed changes regulate the work of the Employment Agency with the economically inactive persons. Their identification will help develop policies and implement activities for their activation. The arrangements for the exchange of information between the institutions involved in the process will be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. A detailed regulation shall be established on the activity of the Employment Agency, which will contact the economically inactive persons in order to inform, consult and direct self-question work. In order to implement activation activities, the Employment Agency will establish and maintain an electronic register of inactive persons which will not be public. With another part of the changes, the bill regulates funding from the state budget of procedures for validating professional knowledge, skills and competences of unemployed persons registered at the labour offices in order to facilitate their access to training to acquire professional qualifications. The validation procedures that will be free of charge for unemployed persons will establish, assess and recognise professional knowledge, skills and competences that those persons have acquired through professional experience, informal learning or self-study. The bill provides for a change in the Law on Vocational Education and Training relating to the requirements for a minimum level of education for inclusion of persons over 16 years in training for the acquisition of qualification in professions for the lowest first degree of professional qualification. A preliminary impact assessment has been applied to the Bill. The adoption of the Bill will not require financial and other funds and will not require administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regimes and fees. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the bill. The proposed changes have been developed with the active participation of experts from the Ministry and the Employment Agency and are linked to the long-term policy objectives for increasing employment and the quality of the workforce. It is expected to activate economically inactive persons of all ages and increase their employability. The Ministry of Education and Science supports the Bill in principle and expresses no support for § 20 concerning the change in the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The courses for literacy and training for the acquisition of professional qualifications of persons over 16 years of age are two separate and independent processes subject to the provisions of several different laws and which are essentially pursuing different objectives. The knowledge, skills and competences acquired in the literacy course are a condition and prerequisite for the acquisition of knowledge and the acquisition of competences in vocational training for the acquisition of a first degree professional qualification and it is therefore considered that it is not possible to carry out the two processes in parallel. It is not possible to complete a course of literacy which does not have the characteristics of the substance to be an educational level, to serve as an outgoing one in obtaining a professional qualification or a qualification by part of a profession. The proposed definition of validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences already exists in the Law on Vocational Education and Training and under the Law on Regulatory Acts should not be an element of the Draft Law. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the proposed bill, noting that the implementation of the new activities under the Bill should be implemented within the approved budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, including the approved means of active labour market policy. As regards the exchange of data between the Employment Agency and the NRA, the order is already regulated in art. 26, para. 2 of the NRA Act and, therefore, § 2 of the Law should be adjusted. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works insists that the Directorate General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service should be removed from the text of § 2 of the Draft, as the exchange of information implies a two-way movement of such. However, no information from the Employment Agency is required and no information is required for the maintenance of the registers of DG GRAO. As of now, the Directorate-General for Employment shall provide information to the Employment Agency, in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 7a, para. 4 of the current law by defining the specific purpose of processing the data and specifying the order by which the data are provided. In order to fulfil the new duties of the Employment Agency under § 13 the Ministry of Labour shall propose an addition to art. 7a, para. 4 by setting the new objective, namely to create and maintain the register under art. Art. 43c, for the implementation of activities under Art. 43c. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The National Expert Committee finds that it is not clear from the Bill what type and volume of personal data will be exchanged between the Employment Agency and the individual institutions and under what conditions and order this will take place. According to the current article. 7a, para. 2 for the purposes of the State Employment Policy, the Employment Agency shall exchange information with the Agency on persons with disabilities under conditions and arrangements laid down in an agreement concluded between them. It should be clarified exactly what these data are because the NELK is obliged to provide information on the certification and re-certification of disabled persons in the Agency for Disabled Persons, for which there is an agreement with the rights and obligations of the Parties and the control of access to the Single Medical Expert Information System. The proposed amendments to the Bill should also be reflected in art. 108a, para. 3 of the Health Act, where employment is not among the activities for which data from the information database under the Health Act can be used. The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training considers that the fact that the cost of financing procedures for validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences should be clarified with cases where additional training is carried out as well as the obligation of institutions entitled to carry out validation to develop a plan-account for each validation procedure should be clarified. The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training disagrees with the inclusion of a priori of illiterate persons over 16 years of training to acquire a qualification in professions for the lowest degree, because the current list of professions for vocational education and training contains a number of first degree professions which cannot be exercised by illiterate persons. A review and evaluation with the participation of the Ministry of Education and Science and Expert Committees of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training should be carried out for dropping the requirement for an incoming educational level. At a meeting held on 4 April 2022, the National Employment Promotion Council (the little NTSC) supports the Bill and proposes that it be adopted by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation operationally. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria defines the proposed amendments as indispensable for the activation of inactive persons. It should be borne in mind that the award of additional activities requires an increase in the budget for the implementation of the National Employment Action Plan. The priced trainings have not been changed since 2015 either as consumables or as fees. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposes to abolish § 14 of the Bill. The proposal to reduce the maximum time limit for the provision of funds to employers to promote employment in these difficult times is unacceptable, an unmotivated restriction........................................................................................... The CST does not support another amendment to the Employment Promotion Act and proposes the development of a new law. They do not agree with informing, consulting and directing employment to be carried out by employment services due to lack of capacity and time. They suggest that this be done from the licensed centers of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training. They do not agree to the removal of the group of persons who have acquired the right to an ESM, but have not yet retired, as the exercise of the right to pension is a personal right and not an obligation. The validation should not take place only in the Bulgarian-German centers, as they are located unevenly in only 4 cities in the country. The Bulgarian-German centers do not hold a licence and teaching teams for all professions and can not guarantee quality in validation. The Bulgarian Industrial Association supports the bill in principle and draws attention to the following issues: The facilitation of personal identification and work with economically inactive persons should be supported by additional legal changes for real implementation and control of the address registration regime; In relation to the planned exchange of information between the Employment Agency and nine other state institutions for the purposes of the State Employment Policy BIA proposes the creation of a single integrated information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; The Bulgarian Industrial Association strongly objects to the ban on providing any information from the proposed new register of economically inactive persons. Aggregated information within this scope represents an outstanding interest for employers' organisations. The lower age threshold determining the economically inactive persons and labour resources should be changed from 16 to 15 years in accordance with the ratified ILO Convention No 138/1973 on the minimum age for employment and the conclusion of labour contracts for dual training. In the subsequent discussion was expressed principle support of the Bill and highly appreciated its timeliness. National Representative Hasan Ademov noted that in the digital age in which we live, information exchange between institutions can be supported. However, in addition to a digital approach, analog should also be used to search for inactive persons by activating labour and health mediators on the ground. With regard to validation, a clear distinction should be made between available professional skills. Mr. Ademov expressed confidence that with joint efforts between the first and second votes, more precise and working texts can be made. National Representative Iliana Zhekova justified the need to adopt this bill by creating an opportunity to facilitate the work of the labor mediators to activate inactive persons. The same applies to existing youth mediators in municipalities. Without such a register it is impossible to reach all persons in the category inactive. She noted that the validation process has so far been slow and difficult, but through the new change, inactive persons will be able to obtain a certificate to make them competitive in the labour market. People's representative Iskren Arabadzhiev supported the bill and expressed confidence that with its adoption some of the inactive persons are allowed to enter the labour market. Regarding the scope mechanism in the Ministry of Education and Science, he noted that there are problems in it, poor business analysis and non-functioning functionalities. Once the Employment Agency has collected all the information in an inactive person's register, an analysis is expected to be carried out in what categories these persons can be grouped in order to be a business analysis to help employers. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 47-254-01-29, submitted by Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs on 17 March 2022. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u193	Thank you, Mr Nedyalkov, for the comprehensive report. Since there are no reports received, I give the floor to the importer so that he can give us his opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS Bill amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act is extremely timely to improve the efficiency and quality of services provided by the Employment Agency to job seekers. Taking into account the increased demand for personnel over the past 5 years, the lack of an appropriate qualified specialist for certain economic sectors, as well as the increased demand, even of unqualified personnel, it is essential that inactive persons be identified, consulted and directed to register at the labour offices in order to receive adequate support for employment implementation. And so far, there are employees at the labour offices and youth mediators in municipal administrations who are looking for inactive young people up to 29 years of age, but this happens blindly without having the necessary data on settlements who are not studying, not working and not registered at the employment offices so that they can get to them easier. This leads to low efficiency and identification of a small number of individuals at random, while a large amount of time is being allocated. In practice, the proposed changes to the Employment Promotion Act will enable labour intermediaries at the labour offices to carry out targeted actions based on the data received from other institutions by establishing direct contact with persons. At present, certain employees of the Employment Agency have access through the inter-registered exchange environment of data from different institutions, but they serve to carry out checks in order to reduce the administrative burden, facilitate citizens and faster access to the services provided by the Employment Agency. The proposed changes will involve the Employment Agency, which is responsible for implementing the state employment policy to carry out research and analysis of labour resources. Through this approach, we propose that the state institution be a pro-active country and that it be entirely for the benefit of the Bulgarian citizens for several reasons. First of all, they will be provided with information about the services they can receive from the Employment Agency and on the spot in their usual environment. Secondly, they will be consulted on the opportunities for professional development, inclusion in training to acquire professional qualifications, subsidised employment or employment in the primary labour market. Thirdly, a large part of these individuals have knowledge and skills that they have acquired informally, on the basis of professional experience or self-study, but do not have a document to certify this qualification. For example, many Bulgarian citizens have acquired knowledge and skills in EU countries because they worked there, carried out various activities in construction, agriculture, social services and other activities. The proposed changes allow such persons to be included in procedures for validating their knowledge, skills and competences. This process is particularly important for inactive people who live in small settlements where there are no jobs, and there are no employers who can open such jobs and provide employment. It is also important for individuals who live in small closed communities and although they have primary or primary education or acquired informal knowledge, skills and competences, employment and continued training is not a value to them. Here is the role of the labor mediator, the health mediator or the youth mediator to work on purpose to change these attitudes. In the Bill we propose that scholarships, means of transport, accommodation for the time of the procedure for validating professional knowledge, skills and competences should be paid by means of the state budget. I have come to know the opinions of the social partners and state institutions and I believe that some of the comments are justified, but others are not. I am pleased, in general, that the proposed changes are also approved by the National Employment Promotion Council and have also found approval in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. To conclude, honourable Members, I would like to inform you that, between first and second reading of this bill, we will make additional proposals and I call on you to support the proposed amendments to the Employment Promotion Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. I am opening the discussion on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. You have the floor, comrade.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, at first glance the bill submitted by Mrs. Sacheva and a group of MPs from GERB seems quite well supported, starting with the good idea that a database of data should be created of people who are not active in the labour market are not registered in the labour offices or are not in any way reflected in their work. Here are naturally mentioned all state institutions from which information needs to be collected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u197	Nine!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u198	With which to make a certain database so that the Employment Agency can have this database and be able to assess who these people are, to find them and to start working with them. So far, the proposal and the bill in its first part, if we can look at it in two parts, looks very good. My only question is, why now? This thing should have happened a long time ago, and we believe that this proposal is quite late, although it is good and must be supported in this part. Here we come to the second part of the Bill when it comes to validating the professional knowledge and skills that will be carried out as provided under the Law on Vocational Education and Training under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1, which says that vocational schools, professional colleges, art schools and professional centers can perform such validation or vocational training to qualify these people. Naturally, it becomes clear here immediately that professional staff training centres will most likely be involved. The question immediately arises how are we going to get these people who have not been educated enough or have not validated their skills or in any way certified them, if I may say so, how are we going to get them to learn? Because we are talking about a large part of people who have a low degree of education. The other thing I want to say as a weakness in the Bill. Let's say that we are able to validate these people, we are able to give them documents that will certify their professional skills, they will have a low degree of performance in the labour market? What employer would take such workers? Here we can also mention something very important in the Bill, which was said, and it is that the funds for this programme to validate the professional skills of these people will come from the state budget. Here it becomes clear that there are no guarantees that these people after their validation will have a realization in the labour market. It will turn out that we have spent some funds, which we still do not know how many there are, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy must determine the amount of these funds, most likely after the budget is updated, and the Ministry itself, because this is what is foreseen, and these funds may be 5, 10, 20 How do we specify how effective these funds will be used? If it turns out that a very small percentage of these people after validation manage to realize themselves on the labour market, these funds will be spent in vain. That is, no one guarantees that these people after their validation will be able to find jobs in the labour market. That's where the tiny moment is. The bill in this part just limps. In our opinion, it will be much more effective if, together with the local companies, work is started together with the information that the Employment Agency will already have and the database it will collect, it will be much better with the business at local level to do synchronization and work together with the business that says for example, we need a certain number of workers in a given area, the Employment Agency to provide these workers through the database that will already be accumulated and with this database and with this amount of workers the relevant companies to help with their training or validation for the respective profession that they need. Maybe that'll do it. Also, naturally, companies will take over their training, it does not need to be from the state budget. We of ARGUMENT, bearing in mind the arguments that I have put forward, will vote abstention at first reading of this bill, believing that we will consider all the amendments that you will propose, and if we have legal changes between first and second readings, we will see what we will do. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u199	Thank you. Any lines to Mr. Georgiev? Here you go, Mr. Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I cannot agree with you on the second part of the amendments to the bill. Personally, I am witnessing many cases when people who have become carers and this is in my practice, after working as carers, many of them express a desire to start developing, that is, appetite comes with eating. When we let them, for example, become carers, we give them a way forward. Do not think that what is a beginning is an end. The idea is that we allow them to start working first, to be engaged in a work environment and then some of them, if they want to, to go up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u201	Second line, come in, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Georgiev, to understand that you do not have in essence any contradictions with the bill that we have proposed. I hope that if you have your suggestions, they will find a reflection between first and second reading of the Bill. But I will also agree with Professor Baltov, because the practice really shows that after trainings that have been implemented, the unemployed persons through the Bulgarian-German vocational training centers themselves, where these trainings are realized, there are really very good examples in which after the completion of the training people find their realization on the labor market. In addition, these people continue to learn and acquire a higher degree of professional qualifications. So here it is important to start, to make such a register, from then on to carry out an analysis of these people with what potential they have, what skills, what knowledge, what competences, so that we can eventually include them in the labour market. The funds, yes, will actually come from the state budget, as every year in the National Employment Action Plan, the Council of Ministers sets out the employment agency's financial framework for the implementation of the active labour market policy. This year I hear that Mr. Ademov is saying what is the amount that is separate from the state budget for active policy.. 83 million plus another 40 million are offered to be additionally funded, so there will indeed be funds in the state budget for this process of validating knowledge, skills and competences. The point is that we all agree here that there is really a need for such a change. It is imperative, and it is important, because in this way we will allow the labour mediators to do their activities of activation of inactive persons purposefully and effectively. This is done, as I have said, and so far, only too ineffective because the individuals cannot be identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u203	Thank you. Is there a third line? Do you want a hole, Mr. Georgiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Baltov, what you just said is a private matter. I can tell you the other way around. I know one of the most valid, certified people in this country. There are more than 15 certificates, and was fired by his employer without blinking the eye of the employer, naturally. So do not think that validation and certification of people and their professional skills will guarantee these people realization of the labour market. That's what I told her in my show. About Mrs. Zhekova's statement. We're not against the creation of the database. I said that in my statement. This is certainly a good measure and a good way to start a database with which the Employment Agency can more realistically evaluate things, more realistically assess which people to address with certain job offers. But we believe that from then on the bill did not meet all the necessary criteria to be able to say that it would stand that it would guarantee these people employment realization. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Mr. Ademov, later, if you want, you can speak. Yes, there must be some guarantee, because otherwise we spend some money that goes to waste and is used by... Well, the state budget is being spent, Mr. Ademov. I also see for the first time a bill aimed at people who need to be realized on the labour market and not supported by trade union organizations by the SSTB, for example, the opinion is absolutely negative, which seems absurd to me. We will make changes and they will be.. I can tell you immediately, from now on.. we will make a proposal between first and second reading to drop all paragraphs from the second, i.e. first and second we will recognise, from then on all paragraphs must be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-20.u205	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. That concludes today's session. I've made a list of those who signed up for a speech, and if anyone wants, it can be added tomorrow at 9:00. I hereby declare the end of the hearing. [[PHONE RINGING]]
