ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] My fellow Members, I have an announcement to introduce you to. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of two planes with crew members of the Israeli Air Force. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly across the country should be granted to the countries concerned for a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Interior. The notification was received on 15 June 2022 by IC. No 47 203 09 62 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda for today. As the first point for today, point 12th of the weekly Programme is: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE DRAGOMIR DARGOMIR ZAKOV AND THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS BUSCO-RASHKOV OF THE BASIS 110 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING ON A AIRPORT FAILED THE BULGARIAN AIR SPACE OF JUNE 8, 2022 Importers are Hristo Gazhev and Tomislav Donchev. This is Minister Rashkov and Minister Zakov. Good morning! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Dear colleagues, from the importers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u2	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u3	Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u4	Dear compatriots, yesterday we witnessed an attempt for Maidan in Bulgaria. Of course, an attempt for Maidan, an attempt which, of course, failed to be done completely because Maidan is made with men and is not done with paid sorosoids. [[noise and lines from.. Continue Change............................]] [[(Applause from ARRANGEMENT. # Noise and lines by # We keep on changing #]] Nevertheless, I would like to address the people who are currently looking, not those who are still ruling the country. I would like to remind you that the events in a close and brotherly country of us like Ukraine began in the same way. . [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change..]] When people who did not like the choice of Bulgarian citizens, when people did not like the choice of their own population, the actions began. At first there were several hundred, then there were several thousand, then they started shooting at the police, finally the state went into civil war. [[(Noise and lines from..) Continue ……]] What happened in Ukraine is not impossible to happen in Bulgaria, because both there and here the same external forces were managing and directing the process. And there, and here it came to a situation where local puppets destroyed their country. We are not in this situation yet, because our country has not yet reached this point, and this cannot be done for a very simple reason................................. we Bulgarians are still a majority in this country and not the paid employees of the US Embassy. [[(Noise and lines from.. Democratic ……]] Yesterday at this protest, attended by people spontaneously organized, of course, who carried pictures and who showed this MP is one of the right ones, and this one is not one of the right ones! Spontaneously organized people with spontaneously brought by them spontaneously cut pipes, spontaneously brought stones, spontaneously brought sops, and all of this is spontaneously organized in the spontaneous presence of spontaneous live reflecting all national media, and it affects a very interesting thing. [[(noise and lines from.. Continue ……]] You've seen how these spontaneously organized people denigrate the tree. [[(noise and lines from..) We continue the Change.............................................)]] , which has been standing before parliament for the second year, which is a symbol of the suffering of mothers who are struggling for more opportunities for normal upbringing of their damaged, unfortunately, for some reason or other reason children. The people who went there defamed this tree and threw these decorations black, in mourning colors that were put there, and didn't dare to do it. The same people stopped an ambulance. I don't know why she came. [[(Noise and lines from..) We continue the Change.................................................................................................... For you is the ambulance!]] They stopped the ambulance because, as one of the MPs said...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u6	...may have been used to evacuate MPs. As they say, you should not judge others by themselves, and if someone has evacuated in an ambulance, you should not expect others to do so, but there is one small detail And now in this regard I want to say the following thing and I say it to you, honourable fellows, those you are looking at, those who want Bulgaria to continue to exist as a Bulgarian state, and not to be destroyed by the mafia American regime, which is currently ruling the country, is about to debate on the vote of mistrust! There will be a vote, and let's not allow this fascist scum. [[(noise and lines from.. We continue the Change... Democratic ……]] Well, let's not let...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u7	Mr. Kostadinov, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u8	...those paid to come. And here they're trying to take away my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u9	Yes, if you continue with the insults, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u10	Let's not let them take away our country! I call on all the compatriots who do not allow and will not want Bulgaria to be turned into the new Ukraine, all those who want to have a normalization of public life, not to push us into civil war, let them come here when this vote of mistrust is voted, let them come here when the debates are, let us not let anyone occupy us, take us and destroy our country! Because we have no other country, no other citizenship, no place to go, this is our only country and it will continue to be ours only and only ours to us Bulgarians! Long live Bulgaria! [[(Noise and cheering from..) We continue the Change................................................................................................... Call the ambulance!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u11	Mr. Bojankov, please come in for a procedure. For procedure, Mr. Popov? Mrs. Belobradova, and you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u12	Mr. Chairman, the events were very inaccurate and Mr. Kostadinov is obviously the only one who is pushing the state towards some conflict and is deliberately looking for it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u13	I have the procedure, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but you never interrupted him once. I was at the same protest, and I saw them throwing pennies at him, not digging, but pennies. . [[Laughter, applause]] But when you're talking about protesters who came here, and you're talking about an organization, and this is the guy who brought the people here on buses with paid transport... [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u15	Mr. Bojankov, you have no right to be concerned about a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u16	...and he says, "I saw and saw." He had seen. Do you know what Bulgarian citizens saw yesterday and what bothers him? They saw the DPS vote! [[Noise and lines from DPS. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what they saw! This is what they saw and he is afraid that everyone saw it and most of all realized that together with GERB is the next Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u17	Mr. Bojankov, I'll take your word for it. [[(Noise and lines from DPS:) Who are you? Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u18	That's what they saw! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines from DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u19	Mr. Petrov is for procedure and then Mrs. Belobradova for a declaration. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Colleagues, please, let's calm the passions down a little bit! Please take your seats and proceed with the meeting. [[(Bulgarian representatives from..We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................]] Mr. Hamid! Colleagues, please take your seats and proceed to the meeting. Colleagues, I'm giving 20 minutes to calm down the passions in this room. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u20	I'm resuming the hearing. Before we proceed with those wishing for new speeches under procedure, I would like to call on you to keep the good tone today. Indeed, passions have been quite heated since yesterday, so will they be today probably, perhaps next week, but let us still keep the good tone, not to engage in verbal attacks that go beyond the acceptable in the context of the political debate, and last but not least, not to come to physical attacks, we saw one just before. Unfortunately, Mr Hamid is not in the Chamber, I would like to address him personally as a Member of the National Assembly, who is one with experience who has authority over his parliamentary group, and such behaviour is unacceptable. The rules allow me to remove it for more than one sitting, which I will not do, but this is the last warning, colleagues. If there are new clashes and new acts of aggression, I will impose the most severe punishment and remove MPs from meetings. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] And you all know there are important votes ahead. For the procedure Mr. Peter Petrov. I had given him the floor before I interrupted the meeting, then Mrs. Belobradova, and, Mr. Popov, you are actually third in this order. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, you are now in the highest and most respectable place in the country today. Courage on me! I have a procedure in the manner of conduct. I don't know why and I didn't aim to remember these cases, but it seems to me that once again, when you chair the sitting in a read-out declaration, including an aging declaration, it is allowed whether by your side or by another presiding party, because, again, I say, I do not bother to remember the cases, it is made and it is given the opportunity to either make statements on the substance or for statements that are a response to a declaration. Either way, they're inadmissible. We all know very well the Rules and there have been scandals more than once, and there has been a request even for the resignation of a Vice-President precisely because the majority believes that the Rules are being violated when, after a declaration, a response is allowed not in the form of a counter-claim, but in the form of a variety of types of statements or procedures essentially like the previous one, which you saw yourself causing physical clashes, and this is what we all saw. I believe that this is unacceptable and I would ask you, since you have been voted upon to be the President of the National Assembly at the moment, I ask you, once again, from this highest tribune, not to allow after a declaration, especially on such emotional days, to allow the right to speeches on the substance, of procedures on the substance, which constitute an answer to a declaration, because none of us in this House profit from what follows, no matter who is guilty. The sanctions will not lead to anything significant and to change, only and only.. and I am ending, MPs only and only if the leadership behind me manages to lead so that the passions are not heated, I think we can finish the work of this parliament within the next month that he has left. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u22	Thank you for this procedure, Mr. Petrov. You're absolutely right. I call on all colleagues who, after Mr. Petrov, will make procedures, not to take direct account of the declaration made by Mr. Kostadinov. Mrs. Belobradova, do you still want the floor? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "Fashist riffraff" is an absolutely unacceptable expression within the National Assembly. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] This is an expression that has absolutely no place within the National Assembly. Yesterday we went out and we saw our friends, our relatives and our colleagues, and all those people who had come and you are now insulting because you are simply protected by not naming names and for being protected by your parliamentary immunity. That's why my procedure is for you, Mr. Chairman. I ask you very much to penalize from here on as a fascist riffraff who really insults Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria". Replies from the National Representative Iskra Mihailova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. I have two minutes to respond to this procedure. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] Indeed, Mrs. Belobradova is absolutely right, colleagues, as much as you do not enjoy that such expressions and such insults should not be made from this tribune, so let us still stay within the good tone. I made a remark to Mr. Kostadinov while he was speaking. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is also in the way in which Mrs. Belobradova made hers. Dear Mr. President, it is the least you can do, because from here, from this high tribune, from the highest tribune in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is a parliamentary republic, to use expressions as a "fascist scum" for people who spontaneously came here to protest against the actions of Mr. Kostadinov personally, and those of the Bulgarian Revival, because they did not support the budget for the increase of pensions, the help for young families, the help for the business, it is at least punishable by the Bulgarian Penal Code. It's a crime, dear Mr. Kostadinov. And please, and I insist, Mr. Chairman, that you impose a more severe penalty on Mr. Kostadinov, because that is the least that can be done here in this Chamber. This is unacceptable, it is not civilized at the very least and, to put it mildly, speaking here from this tribune. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Kiril Simeonov for procedure. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Ganev, I'll give it to you too. I just wanted to give you some time to calm down, not to go into direct controversy with the previous two procedures. I'll give everyone the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way it is. I also join my fellow Members who have voiced the call not to allow such expressions from this tribune. And since I'm already in the stands, I want to say something from my heart without preparing any speeches. In politics, I've entered completely on a merritocratic principle, without having party parents, without anyone supporting me, without businessmen behind me, with nothing. When I saw Slavi Trifonov, he asked me, "What are you here for, what are you fighting for?" I said to him, "I'm here to fight against the system, against the status quo." [[(The People's Representatives of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Continue The Change, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria and the non-members of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry continue with long applause and applause.]] Thank you. People who know me in Varna know that I have openly opposed the management of GERB for many years, especially in Varna I am the creator of the platform Save Varna. After all, I am obliged to go out and say it: I am not GERB, I am not DPS. And when I get home tonight to my kids, I need to be able to look them in the eye. Thank you. [[(We are continuing the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria... Democratic Bulgaria...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u28	Colleagues, I think this has been a very strong and emotional display of parliamentaryism and in the spirit of parliamentaryism, which we have been talking about for the past few weeks. Mr. Simeonov has my admiration for the courage to come out here and say these things. Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u29	Mr. Chairman, as Peter Petrov said before me, when he spoke, and strictly collegially addressed everyone, especially you, not to allow analysis of a declaration no matter who reads it, immediately afterwards you did what was against Mr. Petrov's statement. With regard to the fact that you do not take measures and look empathically at the highest stands, you have seen that by your inaction you have caused unrest in this Chamber. Moreover, once again the double archin continued a member of your parliamentary group was at the heart of the whole thing to have a clash, but to get to this clash, another MP.. Bojankov, from.BSP to Bulgaria........................... or as there is the Coalition, made a statement in which not only made an analysis of our declaration, but also simply failed to mention that only a month earlier he was marching, or rather defiling with the flag of.................................of the protests in Sofia. From now on, regarding the protest, I would like to remind those present here because you have not seen it, but something that is extremely unpleasant is allowed, is seen and is filmed by the cameras, and is broadcast even on some of the medics Mr. Atanasov, Mr. Ivanov guided the protesters who is where, who is opposition, who should be attacked... [[Noise and lines.]] And something you don't know even more, because you don't want to know it, but you can ask your Home Minister the metal stakes behind the hedge against parliament when it got dark, and the police picked them up because that's your spontaneous protest you made. And you, Mr. Chairman, tolerate this thing. This is why we want the election of the President of the National Assembly, because you are showing double arches, allowing something that is unacceptable, and giving people from other political parties the chance to do an analysis when there are riots, however, you are staring at the above. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u30	Thank you for this procedure, Mr. Ganev. But I didn't impose punishment on Mr. Kostadinov, and I should have imposed one on him. Mr. Gurov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct. Indeed, I agree with Mr. Ganev that you should follow the regulations and impose penalties as necessary, including Mr. Kostadinov, for phrases that have no place in the National Assembly's stands. In this regard, I would also like to draw your attention to art. 159, which gives you the right to suspend for more than one meeting of Members of the National Assembly who exercise physical violence in the Chamber or in the National Assembly building. I understand your position that at this point you do not want to impose punishment. What I beg you is to review the records, to be able to examine the situation in detail and the next Presidency Council to assess what punishment and when to be imposed. I think we've agreed here in the last few days that we have a new situation. I have been persuaded by people who are here in this National Assembly for many years, decades, that these are normal, democratic procedures. I agree with this thing, and the goal was to calm the room down and make sure that we walk with normal steps in order. What amazes me the most right now is that it is precisely some of the most experienced representatives in this National Assembly that actually provoke tension and physical violence. I therefore ask that attention be paid and that the recordings be carefully examined and that it be decided whether and how punishment should be imposed. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Hamid, I hope you heard what I said about the situation, or they gave it to you. If there's anything you'd like to say in the stands about her, now would be a good time. Another procedure please, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u33	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you: a few months ago, when your MP Hristo Petrov called the Bulgarian people and protesters outside a handful of unfortunate fascists [[noise and lines]] Why...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u34	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u35	...then you didn't talk, you didn't take any measures and you didn't talk about punishment? Is this the double archin with which you lead the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. As then no punishment has been imposed and now no punishment has been imposed. Mr. Petrov was then warned by the main meeting. It wasn't me. Mr. Petrov, are you here for procedure? [[Heckling]] For a personal explanation? Here you are, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Taslakov, I did not call the Bulgarian people a handful of miserable fascists. I've called 13 people that. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u38	Mr. Kostadinov! [[Heckling]] Colleagues, let us proceed with the agenda of the sitting, because the patience I have with regard to such manifestations and I do not impose punishment is really running out. So, Mr. Gazhev, please come in for the hearing. After all, we spent an hour in procedures and unnecessary nagging. Let's do something useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u39	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! The hearing that we have tabled with colleague Tomislav Donchev is for the already acquired enough publicity act of an airplane that flew over the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria say-say-says undisturbed. As a National Assembly and as MPs, we are concerned to see what happened, exactly how things went and what coordination between the two ministries was, to see if there were errors that could be improved anywhere, and most of all what was the reaction of the authorities of these two ministries, including the Air Force and the services, so as not to allow such things, why it was allowed at all and why it came to this. Publicly known facts about how the plane flew through several NATO member states, reached Bulgaria and was found in Targovishte, all of which is clear. So I'm not going to dwell on it, and I'm going to go straight to a few basic questions that we would like to get an answer to, because I think they're important, and I hope in your exhibits they find their answers. First, how long before entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria the Ministry of Defence was warned on the systems, not to mention them, but there was an additional warning in advance. It became publicly known at least 15 minutes. It also became clear that the plane was accompanied by US and Romanian F-16 on the territory of the Republic of Romania. And here the question is: why is it not allowed cross Border, a cross-border mission on Air Polysling, that is, that is, the aircraft that has already intercepted it to continue to carry out this mission on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under Bulgarian command, as is the agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania in the field of cross-border Air Polysing? At the same time, when it became clear that this plane was flying to the Republic of Bulgaria, when were the Ministry of Interior authorities notified by the Ministry of Defence Operational Centre? The easiest account to be made at such a time, and it is most likely made and provided by our allies before then, is with the possible course of the plane, knowing what the plane is, it is clear how much fuel it carries and how many kilometers it can fly. I mean, it was clear where he could land and where he was headed because he'd just run out of fuel. So this thing is clear. We understand he landed in Vidin. There are some things here that are also disturbing. We found out that there were some bikers who were loading it or supplying it with fuel. Have these bikers been identified, and what was this organization, and then it took off again? It has flown over all of Northern Bulgaria and, as I understand it, not only to Targovishte district, but also to the Black Sea coast. Is there such a thing? Has he flown over strategic sites and no-fly zones? If so, which of the authorities has assessed that the aircraft does not pose a threat, especially if it has flown over strategic sites and objects from military infrastructure and military industrial complex? In the meantime, is he fully monitored by the Air Force and the Department of Defense? What was the communication with the Ministry of Interior? What is the organization that was created inside the Ministry of Interior to welcome when the aircraft in question is already landing, because when it is already clear what the moose is and where it is expected to land, things can be much easier to detect and hold back. By the way, this was also the organisation in Hungary. In Hungary, they have given possible landing locations. Unfortunately, then the police were five minutes late and chased him down the airstrip. Also, what were the orders issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, which at the very least determine which planes were flying and intercept the aircraft in question? We found out that a Bulgarian plane took off from Count Ignatevo, but due to the bad atmosphere, it failed to carry out a mission on Air Polysing. And especially since it was clear why cross borer is not allowed, which is logical in this regard? At the very least, do you know what the purpose of this flight was and what the coordination system was, which, by the way, was built between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the RCC in this regard to react immediately to such intruders? And in your opinion, did this system at least work, and if it didn't work, who are the responsible persons? The main question is: a week later do you have any clarity as to what the purpose of this flight was, was it carrying something, who people were and where they are now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Now for an answer, the persons heard have a total of 10 minutes. Minister gentlemen, perhaps you could share them? If necessary, I'll give you a minute more. Which one of you will start? Here you are, Minister Zakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in order to answer this question in full, I must enter NATO's procedures on Air Polysing and transmission of information. The investigation is also under way and not a small part of this information to be provided is made available to the investigating authorities. So my proposal is, of course, if this is possible, to close the meeting so that I can provide all the information. Otherwise, I have to limit myself to information that is already in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ananiev, you? For procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Given the information that has just been submitted, I suggest that this hearing be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry it has come to this and it has come to a somewhat ridiculous situation. On Wednesday, we had a request from a minister for a closed session, for which you were tearing shirts for two days, that it should not be closed. We told you then that if the Minister wants to close the meeting, it is logical that it is closed. But this whole circus that happened on Wednesday... By the way, I warned that this thing might happen during Wednesday's meeting. I subsequently discovered that this was a closed session, which was supposedly not, but according to the stenogram, we were in a closed session at the time. I want to say to you that all this simplicity, I apologize for the word that happened in the last two days, was because of a turning interpretation and now we're turning to 180 degrees the same position. At the moment we will support such a proposal because the position of GERB is principled and consistent. When a minister wants to familiarise the MPs with information that is sensitive, even if it is not classified, this should happen in a closed session, as should have happened on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We will do what we did on Wednesday, which is to put it to the vote, and the House will decide. On Wednesday, the House decided to open the session. Ladies and gentlemen, on a proposal from the President of the National Assembly, I propose that point one, namely: the hearing of Minister Zakov and Minister Rashkov be closed. Please, voting mode. Vote 196 MPs: 180 against 13, abstention 3. Please turn off all cameras and radio microphones. Colleagues, take 10 minutes to leave your phones outside the room. [[Next closed session]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u47	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. I will read to you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period 10 June to 16 June 2022 from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov on a question from the National Representative Bogomil Petrov; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimitrov and a question from the National Representatives Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dimitrov; - Minister Bozidar Bojanov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question from the National Representative Vladislav Panev; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and on a question from the National Representative Mladen Marinov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment Borislav Sandov to a question from the MPs Aleksandar Dunchev, Petar Kulenski and Georgi Gkozdeykov; to a question from the MPs Georgi Stamov and Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin; to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to three questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and to a question from the National Representative Tihomir Tenev; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov on a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev and on a question from the National Representative Nikola Dimitrov; - Minister Ivan Ivanov to two questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and to a question from the National Representative Plamen Abrovski; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and to a question from the MPs Petar Kulenski, Alexander Dunchev and Georgi Glovdiekov; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Subev on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Petar Marinov; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; on a question from the National Representative Vladislav Panev and on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Hristo Prodanov on a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva and a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev. These are the written answers. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First will answer the Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Bogoomilov Petkov about the Bulgarian fighters Su-25. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u48	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! According to information announced by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, the country received 14 Su 25 fighters from a partner from Eastern Europe. The Ministry of Defence denied that such planes were sent from Bulgaria. In this regard, I ask you to answer me how many Su 25 fighters are available at the moment and what is their status?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u49	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please answer the question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Petkov, I will be very brief, as the answer is very easy. As regards Su-25, I inform you that the number of Su-25 aircraft in the Bulgarian Armed Forces is in line with the strategic defence review carried out in 2020. Some of them were upgraded according to the provisions of the Framework Agreement concluded between the Ministry of Defence and the Aviation Repair Factory in Belarus. So the numbers are as much as they say in the strategic review right now. There's no reduction in that number. The condition is currently flying, but we have certain problems with maintenance, fully explainable, given the Sanction mode cannot be performed several of the activities needed to repair Su-25 itself, which, of course, creates a risk at some point to be grounded. The problem comes with the conclusion of the contract itself. I will not go into detail, but there are generally sanctions against Belarus, both before and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u52	Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply, but this is very important because a lot of media, even national, speculated that our fighter planes were handed over to the Ukrainian army. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u53	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are going over the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov. The first question is from the MP Vassil Zashkev about road III-822 Samokov "Zhivkovo" Ihtiman. Here you are, Mr. Zashkev, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister in resignation! My question is related to when will the current repair of road III-822 Samokov be completed, and what are the reasons for stopping the work on it? Mr. Minister, in my home town of Samokov other than road, there are no other transport, there are four entrance and exit arteries and I had the feeling that you would have no work because GERB cut off as many strips as there may be no roads in Bulgaria, but it turned out that this is not the case with the practical repairs. That is my question, and I do not know how relevant it is in your current position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u55	Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zashkev, in 2021 the repair started at 10.5 km from road III-822 Samokov As winter maintenance took place, track activities were terminated. As of 10 June this year the repair works will be renewed under the supplementary agreement of 13 May 2022 with the contractor. The deadline for their closure was changed on 30 September this year. This is valid for absolutely all 278 sites with which the National Assembly, as you remember, has enabled them to be completed by 30 September this year. I don't know what you mean by my condition, but given the state of the ruling coalition, rather than yesterday, we have a company statement that they will stop working on all these sites because of the ambiguities that the promiscuous political talk introduced, but it is not my disbelief. The activities provided for in the project otherwise include ground works, removal of local damage to the road, repair of asphalt flooring, laying new asphalt layers, restoration of drainage facilities and so on. After completion of the asphalt works along the 10-km track will be placed and horizontal marking will be installed and restrictive systems and road signs will be installed. For the completion of the repair of III-822 we have an order of ODMVR Sofia, and according to it will gradually close the left and right lane for movement along the Republican road in the section from km 2 to km 12, and the passage of the vehicle is limited - more than 10 tonnes. All we have to do is pray for the companies to continue their work, as I called them yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u57	Thank you. Mr. Zashkev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I will admit that when you became Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, I had great hopes, for the simple reason that I repeat myself again, in Samokov other than road transport, there is no other, and it is not only in Samokov. On the territory of Sofia-district roads are in a tragic state and I have asked you a few questions about many of them. Unfortunately, we can see that you will not be able to do this job. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Otherwise, what was done, because here some colleagues from GERB replicated me, apparently with four entry-exit arteries they managed to do one in a year, i.e. in 10 years of management. It'll probably take 40 years to make the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u59	And thank you, Mr. Zashkev. Mr. Minister, would you like a double? No. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! While the parties have been dealing with and interested in the market of MPs in the last weeks, there is a much more important topic in the Bulgarian society, a much more important market, where no one pays attention to this is the fuel market. In the last six months alone, both gasoline and diesel, I'm talking about ordinary ones, have jumped 36 times 37%. The explanation, we don't really have an explanation on the part of the government, but some analysts explain it at Brenta's higher price. I've pulled the papers. ♪ Brent's really growing. Here's the price. [[shows diagram]] , rising to about 120 dollars, meaning there is a real increase in Brenta. However, the Bulgarian refinery "Lukoil" you know that it does not process Brent. Lukoil Neftohim is working with Ural Oil, and if we look at the price and graphics of Ural Oil, we see something completely different. I don't know if it's visible from you, I'll hand it over to you later, if you want, is Brenta's price chart and the Ural Oil price for the last four years. [[shows diagram]] And you can see that by March this year there is almost no deviation in Brenta's price and the price of Ural Oil. But if we notice March, right here, colleagues, it's March. [[shows diagram]] And you can see that as Brenta's price goes up, the price of Ural Oil is falling. This reference is from the "Bloomberg". Here, I'll show you another way. This is the schedule of the price difference between Brenta and Ural Oil. [[shows]] You see, until February, before the war in Ukraine, they move in sync, there is no difference. This line right here is no different between Brenta's price and the price of Ural Oil. When one goes up, the other goes up, and one goes down, and the other goes down. But what happens in February? The price of Ural Oil starts trading at 30% discount. Do you see where she is? Brenta's price is the horizontal line, the price of Ural oil is 30% down. And if Brenta's price is now $120, then the price of the oil that our refinery uses is Lukoil Neftohim. For May, it's $78, so our refinery doesn't buy at $120, it buys at $78. If we look at the price for the last one year of this same, Ural oil, there is no price difference. Why, then, in the last six months, the price of petrol and diesel stations has jumped 36%, honourable Members? If it's the same price for the Ural Oil a year ago and now, why was a year ago the fuel worth 2.50 and now it's 3.50? I'd like to point out to you that the excise duty and the VAT are the same. Not for the last one year, but for the last 10 years they haven't changed. The price of Ural oil is the same, the excise duty is the same, the VAT is the same, the fuel increased by 1 BGN. Some of you will say: "But they may not use Ural oil, they may use Brent. " Although they claim they cannot use anyone other than Russian oil. I checked, in May they landed 10 tankers of Russian Ural oil in Lukoil Neftohim. So we buy and process cheap Russian oil, but we pay it as dear Brent. The price difference is 1 BGN. 1 BGN per litre for diesel, 1 lv. For the gas. A year, colleagues, all of us Bulgarians consume 3.5 billion liters. Three and a half billion gallons! £1 each. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible How much is that a day? We charge nearly 10 million liters at the gas stations a day. 10 million liters! £1 each. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is I mean, $10 million. lv. We pay to buy Russian oil at the price of dear Brent. You do realize that this difference of BGN 1,3 billion a year, 10 million a day someone takes it. It's clear who's paying for it. We pay for it, all of us who charge at the gas stations. If you charge 5 liters a day, every day someone takes 5 lv. I won't insult anyone, I won't say in my opinion which offshore accounts this money goes to, although as the MP from this tribune I have the right to say that. If you charge one tank, you pay every day or when you charge 50 lv. 50 liters 50 leva. We're all paying $10 million and some of that money is taking it, fellow Members. Last week, if you remember, we suggested setting up a temporary committee to explore this issue. Consider these graphs [[shows]] , why, given that the Ural oil has fallen 30%, in Bulgaria the price jumped by 1 BGN. And more? Why do we all pay $10 million more a day? So what happened, guys? There was a great enthusiasm in this hall of almost all parliamentary groups, most of them from the Democratic Bulgaria. They even said: "You didn't come up with this, we came up with this. " - We will not argue. Mr. Martin Dimitrov will say: "I have spoken this earlier, you have spoken it late. " I do not want to write father of this idea at all, but I was looking forward to the first point in the program for this week, because, if you remember, last week we were preparing to be first point for Friday. The first item for Friday was gone, and I was looking forward to seeing the agenda for this week. Well, colleagues, there's everything else this week, it's over, today is Friday, just not the Temporary Fuel Commission. Every day they rob the Bulgarian people with 10 million. BGN, they fill every day with 10 million. lv. The offshore and temporary committee is not on the agenda. That, my fellow Members, is an example of your management. And when you call for corruption, status quo and so on, look first at yourself, because the fuels were never 3.50 and Bulgarian citizens know that very well. And notice, at a higher price of oil, including Ural, and Brent, and all other species. One lev per day, one lev per litre comes out of the pocket of the Bulgarian citizen and enters the offshore ones. That's the result. In the last six months, that's nearly 2 billion. lv. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u61	We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the MPs Bajram Bajram, Adlen Shevked, Pavlin Krastev and Mukaddes Nalbant to Minister Karadzov on the repair of Republican road III-508 (Kardzhali-Makaza) Which of the colleagues will develop the issue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The colleagues from Kardzhali have another question for you, Mr. Minister, this time for a section which has been closed for more than a year, namely the construction of the Republican road III-508 (Kardzhali-Makaza). Dear Mr. Minister, in the last year letters have been sent to the Ministry of Interior, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Road Management Department of Kardzhali, in order to bring Republican Road III-508 (Kardzhali-Makasa) to the Republican Road (Kardzhali-Makasa) to the region from km 17+700 to km 20+700, which is about 3 km, in accordance with the requirements of normal passability and road safety. This part of the route has been closed for over a year, as I mentioned, connects Jebel and Kirkovo and affects more than 30 thousand people who live in these settlements. This limits the free movement of the population to their jobs in Jebel, Kirkovo, Momchilgrad and Kardzhali. All of these have grounds for searching for an alternative route to move, which makes life difficult for everyone living in the area. We should point out that the above road is the only alternative route of the Cross-border Transport Corridor No 9 at Helsinki-Dedeagac, in Kardzhali-Makaza precinct. In this regard, our question to you, Mr Minister, is: when will the necessary actions be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Government of Kardzhali, in strengthening the road and opening it up for its subsequent use in a state with the standard requirements of the Republican road connecting the municipalities of Jebel and Kirkovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Shevked, Mrs. Nalbant, Mr. Bajram and Mr. Krastev! The strengthening of the section of road III-508 (Kardzhali-Makasa) affected by the landslide processes In the period September-October 2022 it is planned to announce public contracts for engineering, preparation of a technical project for construction and construction supervision to strengthen the 240-meter section after the village of Ovchevo. At this stage, construction is planned to begin this year. Depending on the procedure of the public procurement, it is possible to do so, i.e. whether there will be an appeal, it is possible to do so next year. The destabilization processes along the route took place in the spring of 2021 as a result of intensive snow melting and precipitation. Currently, the section from km 17 to km 20 is closed for the movement of all types of road vehicles from 20 April 2021. The bypass route is along the road I-5 branches for Jebel The traffic organisation shall also have the necessary road alarms in place. The efforts of the API are by strengthening the landslide processes to ensure safe and comfortable passage through the section of road III-508. For the period until the reinforcement activities are completed, the road section will remain closed for all types of road traffic. In order to ensure the life and health of road users, traffic will take place on a bypass route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, which one of you gets a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Madame Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's, if I'm not mistaken, the sixth question from Kardzhali County about Republican roads. It'll probably be your last. There'll probably be an emergency next week. From all your answers we have seen that you are well-meaning, at least you lay some foundations for designing the repair of these roads. But we see that these problems are mainly the population of Kardzhali district. In regions, in villages, in settlements, where the population, unfortunately, continues to decline precisely because of these problems, because there is no road, for there is no water and other infrastructure projects that are not realized. These are also the main problems that the ruling majority should be dealing with at the moment, if there is already a majority. Probably not. We see in the last few days that there is no majority. They have so far dealt with all kinds of shenanigans, but have not dealt with the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Our additional question will be: when was the design of the section in question started, because it is important for us to know when it started? Last week, when we asked the question about the road Kardzhali "Assenovgrad," there the problem was identical. That's where a landslide process began. We see that for three or four years there has not been a reaction and the future of this road Kardzhali is exactly like the one that connected the municipality of Jebel with Kirkovo. If no measures are taken again, Kardzhali "Asenovgrad" in the same way has the risk of being closed when the landslide process, so to speak, progresses to a more serious stage of development. There are many other such lands with landslides in Kardzhali district. We will ask our questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in the future. We hope that this section will be open soon because, I will finish with this, we have signals that the population because they cannot go to their jobs, use the rest of the canvas, violate even the rules, and for this reason there is a risk to the lives of the people who inhabit these settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Would you like a douche? [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov.]] I mean, in the back, you can answer. I'm taking this opportunity to ask you to take the time because you shouldn't... Not to you, but to those who ask questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my reply, I said that the public procurement will be announced September-October and it will be for engineering for the whole, i.e. it will involve both design and implementation, as we have not inherited many designs this year. By exception, we will continue in this calendar year to use engineering as a faster way to start the specific work. With regard to the landslide section, it further deteriorated separately and a second core appeared, and thus the already made technical project for the first one was ready for this part, it is necessary to expand with a second one and therefore the procedure went to September-October, but September-October will be announced and from then on is what the Public Procurement Act and the court say. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u69	Thank you. The next question is from the MP Krasen Georgiev Krastev on the repair of Republican road III-101, located in Vratsa district and a specific dangerous section of the territory of Glozhene City Hall, notice. Lenin, is that why she's in this state?! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, please answer me. Will it be included for emergency repairs this year, a dangerous section, part of Republican Road III-101, in its part at Glozhene City Hall, Kozloduy Municipality? It's on a block of Street. In the city hall there are falls of road pavement covering the entire width of the road. These falls have a depth of more than 0,5 m and a length of more than 100 m and are extremely difficult to move in both directions, as well as a prerequisite for the In May 2022, in just a week there were two serious accidents with fatal outcome for those travelling to the station. For information, the road is a key access to the NPP, and thousands of employees pass on it on a daily basis. As part of the Republican road network there are also thousands of heavy goods trucks moving around the clock, especially during agricultural harvesting campaigns. Last but not least, I would remind you that the road is part of the established emergency plan of the NPP. Dear Minister, the residents of Glozhene are interested and are waiting for your answer whether the section will be repaired, as well as to commit to a specific deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Krastev, the short answer to your question is that now in the summer season will be repaired this time by the Regional Road Management. In detail, the compromised route of Republican Road III-101 Vratsa In the 240 m-long section of the third-class road there are severe deformations of the road surface. The defects were caused by water accidents, as well as the subsequent compromising of the collector system owned by Kozloduy Municipality. After correspondence with the Water and Kozloduy Municipality in order to ensure safe and comfortable conditions of passage, the Regional Road Management (Railway) Vratsa will undertake the necessary repair activities of the section in order to restore the operational state of the third-class road in the village of Glozhene. The work will be carried out during this summer construction repair, as it is necessary to repair the road base and construction activities should be carried out under favourable climatic conditions. Regarding road accidents, I would like to point out that they did not arise on the basis of the defects in the pavement of road III-101, but because of the failure to comply with the Road Traffic Act. One of them, for example, was caused by an unfit leader who passed through the urbanized territory of the village of Glozhene at three times the speed allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Krastev, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer, but the residents of Glozhene City should be more pleased. This is encouraging that there will be an emergency repair. Everything you've said is quite nice, apparently, it will be fulfilled within the deadline, as you promise. We'll keep an eye on his performance. There have really been two serious accidents, really not exactly in this section I was quoting, but I wanted to draw your attention to this road and this section of Street. "Lenin" is still named "Lenin" in the town hall. I can propose another solution on the speed of the inbound cars from the direction of Bhutan towards Glozhene, can be prepared and planned and designed an extended pedestrian path that would reduce the speed of entry where the two severe accidents occurred. Once again, I will thank and say that indeed in the rain and with a little more of the normal rainfall occur in the deep pools, all this water enters the basements of the people who live nearby and first alerted you to the case, then the mayor of the village of Glozhene. Once again, thank you for your reply, I think we will follow together the implementation of the repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u75	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? It's encouraging that Street. - Lenin will be repaired. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Mitkov Sabev concerning the termination of the public procurement by the Road Infrastructure Agency and concerning the repair of the road section Smolyan Rudozem through Fatovo. Here you are, Mr. Subev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Minister Karadjov, my question as a Member of Parliament from Smolyan District is on the occasion of the terminated public procurement by the Road Infrastructure Agency....................................................................................................................................................................... Will it be renewed as such? Are the funds provided for the repair in question? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u77	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Subev, the contract for the selection of performers of the construction works with six separate positions, one of which is for the main repair 22 km from the third-class road III-868 Rudozem smolyan in the section from km 0 to km 20, from km 20 to km 22 has not been terminated. This procedure was suspended on 12 May 2022 due to a complaint lodged with the Commission for Protection of Competition containing a request for the imposition of a temporary measure. In accordance with art. 203, para. 3 of the Public Procurement Act, the procedure shall be suspended from receipt of the notification letter from the KPC for the initiation of proceedings pending the entry into force of a definition also of the KPC, which either leaves the request for suspension of the procedure without respect or of the decision on the complaint, if such a temporary measure is imposed. No act has been put in place by the appeal body in the KPC case at the moment, concerning the request for suspension of the procedure, as well as with regard to the complaint lodged, which is why all actions under the procedure have been suspended. Depending on the issued acts of the KPC and after the entry into force of the contract, the public procurement will be carried out according to the reasons set out therein. Republican Road III-868 Rudozem Smolyan serves the settlements in the municipality of Rudozem and Smolyan and is an alternative route to the future border crossing Rudozem The track provides a connection with the monument of the peak of Srednogorets, known as the Rhodope Shipka, built in honour of the liberation of the Rhodopes in 1912. The activities provided for the restoration of the operational qualities of the section of Smolyan to the town of Rudozem through the village of Fatovo are according to a technical project approved in October 2021. The funds for the main repair 22 km from the third-class road are provided for in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the deadline for completion of the repair is 450 calendar days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Subev, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Minister Karadjov, I am pleased with this answer because I have asked you before about the suspended orders for a number of reasons and it is really good from this tribune area of Smolyan to hear really that it is not over, that there is a procedure going on, because when you come back to the area, you ask questions, questions that I should be able to answer to the residents, and that is why I took the liberty of asking this question and really from the platform of the National Assembly to hear what the truth is about this time. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u81	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You don't want to. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, the questions to you are exhausted. The next question is from the National Representative Krum Zarkov to the Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova on legislative proposals drawn up within the framework of a draft of the European Commission. Mr. Zarkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Yordanova, with my question, I raise the question of the completed draft of the European Commission under the heading "Extending reform of the ordering proceedings" and it ended at the end of last year and in its frameworks were drawn up and submitted to our attention legislative proposals aimed at reforming this procedure by introducing a centralised distribution of the ordering cases and introducing an opportunity for their electronic processing. I am putting this issue because it is important for several reasons, one of which is that these changes can facilitate citizens' access to cases, speed up the process and, last but not least, more evenly distribute the burden between the district judges, a matter which you have been dealing with and has been on the attention of the legal community for a long time. The proposals are familiar with the Supreme Judicial Council, which have expressed a positive opinion and sent it to you, but also we as parliamentary represented parties, the Council of Ministers, that is, the entities entitled to a legislative initiative. On this occasion, my question to you is as follows: how is your ministry's attitude towards these legislative proposals drawn up in this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u83	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Minister, come in, you have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue that is put to our attention is extremely important, so to ensure better access to justice for citizens, to speed up business turnover in order to collect claims and better workload for regional judges, as has been rightly noted. The short answer to this question is that the Ministry of Justice has a positive attitude towards this reform, fully supports it, not only that. A working group was established within the Ministry and the work on the Bill was completed. The bill is ready, it is even distributed among the coalition partners and on Tuesday afternoon there will be a meeting of the expert group to examine it. Within a few months, there was a very intense work, both by regional judges and by the Ministry of Electronic Governance, to find the right balance of how, on the one hand, by electronising production, on the other hand, to ensure that people who do not have the ability to have access to justice have no access to electronic means of communication. I think we have found a very good balance, namely that yes, the production will go entirely in electronic form, but there will be an opportunity to issue a copy in paper on the executive sheet, and therefore certain persons who are not traders, respectively, are not represented by a lawyer, will also be able to submit applications for the issue of an electronic sheet of paper. Again, I think this is a reasonable balance. If the bill is supported by coalition partners on Tuesday, it will be announced for public discussion by the end of next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u85	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I thank you for your attitude and for the seriousness of the answer to the question. Indeed, and that is why I took the liberty of bringing this debate here. This issue is important, on the one hand, for e-Justice, something we have been talking about for a long time and with all the challenges it poses. So I'm very pleased with the fact that you've actually been looking for a balance and I'm sure you found it. However, we also have to bear in mind that this type of statistics proceedings from 2021 represent more than 50% of all cases entering the regional courts, i.e. their distribution will be able to contribute, on the one hand, to enabling district courts in the busiest areas to focus their capacity on solving others and on the other, to save courts that are threatened with closure due to a low degree of workload. My colleague Maya Dimitrova is a representative of Dobrich district, where there are very serious concerns regarding the future of the court in Balchik and therefore she follows this issue. Last but not least, this reform, because it is a very serious reform, is part of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan in the part of the "Justice" that is, without a doubt, one of those twenty-several laws that we are talking about in the last days, which will unlock the assistance of the EU to our country. So you can rely on the full support of the experts and the group of BSP both in the expert debate and further so that this bill can be uploaded quickly for public discussion, to be discussed seriously enough on the page of strategy.bg, but then in the hall and to become a fact as soon as possible. Thank you for your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate? Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Minister Serbenova. The first question to Minister Serbenova by the National Representative Elena Guncheva is withdrawn. The second question is from the National Representative Maya Dimitrova on the provision of the funding from the National Health Insurance Fund to the support funds, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities from 1 July 2022. Mrs. Dimitrova, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u88	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary, colleagues! As of 1 July this year, the National Health Insurance Fund has started to be responsible for the granting, reporting, control, payment and repair of aids for people with disabilities. After a working meeting with representatives of the National Health Insurance Fund, we were informed that an application has been made to................................................................................................ From the beginning of May, testing of the programme product had to be started and it was expected that testing will be carried out in the whole of June with support traders, and from 1 July the system itself will be put into operation. Under the new procedure, we will have the patient's application for consent to the prescribed aids and the need to provide them. Through an automatic electronic interface, the LKK or TelK will send to the information system of the National Health Insurance Fund data for issued protocols and applications to them. Information on the issued protocols and applications for support up to 1000 BGN. will be seen for the regional health insurance cases and for support funds over 1000 leva. the information will be visible only in the National Health Insurance Fund. In the case of the application for repair of the aid, applications will be submitted by the person or by an person authorised by him on the spot in the Health Insurance Fund or by electronic means. The National Health Insurance Fund and the Regional Health Insurance Fund will review the electronic protocols under a separate module by which electronic approvals and commission decisions will be generated and each order will receive a registration number and date. That's where the aids will be included. The issued and signed order will be visible to all retailers on the territory of the country who have a contract with the Cashier. Each person must be identified to the trader and, according to the criteria set by the trader, will be noted in the system the aid granted. Faces will be able to get it from any merchant. After approval, the National Health Insurance Fund will pay the funds within a month. Since this is a completely new procedure and should enter into force from 1 July 2022, my question to you is: Is the National Health Insurance Fund ready to carry out this activity?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Minister Serbenova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, with regulatory changes adopted in 2020, the provision of assistance, devices, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities is carried out by the National Health Insurance Fund on the basis of a mechanism and standards for the quality of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities, and the means of this are provided by the state budget by means of the budget of the Ministry of Health. As you rightly pointed out, these activities will be carried out by the NHIF from 1 July 2022. In accordance with these legal provisions, the National Health Insurance Fund has carried out a procedure to determine the value to which these funds will be paid and the relevant repair activities for them. As a result of the procedure, it was drawn up and published on the website of the National Health Insurance Fund a list of the items in question and repair activities and the value to which the National Health Insurance Fund will pay them additionally as of the date we already quoted. To secure the process of providing and repairing the funds in question for people with disabilities, as their full and partial payment from the National Health Insurance Fund is yet to be concluded individual contracts with traders, which you quoted, under art. 45, para. 16 of the Health Insurance Act. The contracts will be concluded between persons carrying out activities for the provision and repair of the resources in question for disabled persons who are registered as traders and entered in the register of persons carrying out activities for the provision and repair of those funds for disabled persons and the National Health Insurance Fund through the director of the regional health insurance fund concerned. The process of conclusion of contracts by the Regional Health Insurance Fund will start on 20 June 2022 and is approved by the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund as an indication for the conclusion and administration of the contracts. The deadline for the conclusion of the contracts is 30 June 2022, i.e. there are 10 days for the conclusion of those contracts, providing for the possibility of continuing the conclusion of contracts by the directors of the Regional Health Insurance Fund, that is to say that more traders may be involved. The process of prescribing, granting, controlling and paying the funds and repair activities is provided through the created specialized software product that you have quoted from It is currently in testing mode, i.e. tested in its full functionality. With regard to the regulation, as a result of the work of an interdepartmental working group, which was established by order of the Minister of Health, a package of regulatory changes has been set up covering the entire process of financing, granting and using these funds for disabled persons, affecting the following regulations: the Rules on the application of the Law on Persons with Disabilities; the Rules on Device and Organisation of Work of the Bodies of Medical Experts and of Regional Cards of Medical Experts; the Rules of Procedure and the Organisation of Work of the National Council for Persons with Disabilities and the Order for the Presentation of National Representative Organizations of Persons and the Control of Compliance with the Criteria for National Representativey; the Rules of Procedure of the Management Agency for Medicines also; Ordinance No 10 of 2009 on Conditions, Conditions, Mechanisms, Mechanisms and Criteria for Payment of Medicinal Products, Medical Products, Dietary Foods for Special Medical Purposes; Ordinance No 7 of 31 March 2021; The Rules of Procedure of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. A draft regulation on the terms and conditions for the implementation and control of activities for the provision, use and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings, facilities of medical devices for people with disabilities has been established. A draft regulation for the annulment of Ordinance No RD-078 of 2019 on the conditions and procedures for carrying out control of repair activities has been established. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Maybe I'll add to the back, because, as you rightly said, this is a new process and requires so much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u91	You'll have that opportunity. Mrs. Dimitrova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u92	Thank you. Thank you, Minister Serbenova, for your answer. I really hope that the Health Insurance Fund will be able to conclude the contracts within the time limit. What actually satisfies me with the answer is that there will be a time limit for extending the contracts. What is most important for people with disabilities, for us as MPs, for the Ministry of Health, for the NHIF is indeed all people with disabilities who need assistance, to be able to supply them, and to supply them when they need them, because otherwise it will be so that what we have taken as a decision will put people with disabilities in difficulty. I really thank you and hope things go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u93	Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u94	Since, as Mrs. Dimitrova rightly pointed out, this is a new process, I could not complete the things that are actually coming. For the implementation of cooperation in the development and implementation of the policy on the rights of disabled people of the Council of Ministers under the Law on People with Disabilities was established and the National Council was established. This council will meet next week on June 22nd at 14.00 p.m. Mr. Borislav Sandov, who is Deputy Prime Minister, you know, on climate policies and Minister of Environment and Water, Vice-President is the Minister of Health. In this regard, all the cited legislations have been sent to the Council, all of which I quoted just now in my reply. After the public discussion of the projects is completed and the summary of the opinion will be adopted by the competent authorities and promulgated in the Official Journal. In addition, there is also a training today for the services provided by the regional health insurance funds. Next week, there are two dates of training provided for the services of the doctor's committees and online training. Separately, the NHIF will announce two dates for online training, but of course, despite all the efforts, as we have seen along some of the e-health stages, it is possible that some interested parties do not participate in the training and then use this as a media occasion for failing to make the necessary commitments within the time limit. So I hope that all of you, in this room, will also follow this process, that this will not happen. The old model tied the patients, you know, with a particular trader, with powers of attorneys, with the Agency. While what you have described in your reply is newer, more modern, less binding and, of course, some corrupt practices are being overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u95	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to you is from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova on a total reform of the system for nursery care in Bulgaria and a change of Regulation No 26. Mrs. Belobradova, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u96	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I appeal to you again regarding the extremely pressing need to reform the system of nursery care in Bulgaria. You know that I have been systematically having conversations with the Ministry about this for several months now. The reason for my question is caused by the closure of crib groups and whole cribs in Sofia and other cities due to lack of staff. The extremely delayed change of Regulation No 26 led to the fact that even more children will not have access to early childhood care except the thousands that have not been accepted at all. This is a severe blow to families who remain with two perspectives ahead of them, or one parent to leave the workplace to take care of the child or, if there is a financial opportunity to spend a significant amount to cover the private expenses that sometimes border on 800 BGN. a month. These are the costs of raising children under the age of three. Here it is important to say that there is no other country in Europe where the law requires healthy children to care only and only individuals with medical education. I understand that change takes time, but the proposed amendment to Regulation No 26, which has been proposed now by your ministry and has been subject to public consultation, was not a change because we have just added to the nurses more medical professionals - Fieldmasters, a specialty that no longer exists, and medical assistants. This is an absolutely pointless change and in no way contributes to solving the problem. In this sense, my question is this: did the Ministry still manage in its work with the Ministry of Education and Science to come up with a slightly more flexibilistic approach? Is it really planned to reform the nursery care? And in connection with the task assigned to you by the Council of Ministers to head a working group to transfer the nurses to the Ministry of Education and Science, would you please tell me what is done so far, has the group started working, how far has the work on the subject reached, how far has the work with the Ministry of Education and Science reached? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Mrs. Serbenova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Belobradova, it is a little unusual to begin the answer to this question with thanks, but thank you for not giving up asking it, because this is a problem that has not been solved in years and which has deepened as a result of demographic changes and shortage of medical staff, and so on. In the course of the public consultations on the Draft Ordinance for amendment and supplement of Regulation No 26 on the construction and operation of nursery and children's kitchens, and the health requirements for them came, as you know, numerous opinions, notes, assumptions. Given the public importance of these issues, some of these comments were also opposing. A large number of the opinions contained comments, proposals mainly on the provisions related precisely to the mandatory species and number of specialists working in the nursery and their shortage in the country's major cities. The opinions and proposals that have been made specifically on this subject, as I have already mentioned, were opposing and sometimes mutually exclusive. A working meeting with representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health took place on 15 June. During the meeting, a compromise solution was reached, with the provision relating to minimum requirements for mandatory species and number of specialists being adopted as follows, and I quote: "For the time of children's stay in the nursery, their service in a crib group is carried out by at least one healthcare professional and one babysitter. In addition, it will be regulated that, in the event of failure to provide sufficient medical professionals, and this is the real possibility that exists in many cities, non-employed pedagogists who, however, must have passed training on early childhood development, complex health promotion and first aid on an established by the Minister of Health programme, which I have now ordered experts at the Ministry of Health to develop. This requirement will be applied as of next year, thereby enabling the closure of nurseries due to lack of medical professionals and, on the other hand, to prevent the deterioration of the quality of the care offered to children from zero to three years of age. In conclusion, I assure you that the Ministry of Health will continue to work towards protecting children's health and providing a healthy living environment, and I have no doubt that the standing MPs will also follow you personally how this process develops, as it still takes time to prepare this programme and establish, but we have the real chances of solving this long-standing delayed problem next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u99	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Belobradova, you have an opportunity for a back-up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u100	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that you have so carefully considered the public opinions that have taken place in the context of the public discussion of Decree No 26, but it is important to say that when we are creating a new reform, in general, by creating a reform within the framework of early childhood care, we should not be guided by whether we have conflicting public opinions, but how this practice is actually established in Europe and what European practices are developed on this issue, which are so well established that they provide an answer and a solution to many of the issues at issue. As I understand it, the program you have provided for educators who will take the places of medical professionals where they are not enough, this is scheduled to happen from next year on January 1st. Today, however, we have a problem from this year. Only in Sofia do we have 150 seats that need to be occupied September in order for the crevice groups to function. 100 of the present created crevice groups and another 50 that are for newly discovered crevice groups for which we have the opportunity to be found, but most likely they will not be because there will be no one to occupy the jobs. In this sense, thank you very much for really paying attention to this issue and it may indeed have its decision next year, but now what we do in September, when the new one starts, I will not call it a school year, because the nurses are still at the Ministry of Health. And finally I'm going to tell you yes, we're going to keep track of what happens every day. No matter who is in charge of this reform, he will have to face us every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. With this were exhausted the questions to the Minister of Health Mrs. Serbenova. Thank you for your participation. You want to take the floor? You're right at any time, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u102	A hole, Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u103	It's my fault. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u104	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mrs. Belobradova, you really said it really well........................................................................... Experts draw up the programme, it will be discussed, of course, subject to wide public discussion. I would also like to thank NGOs for the experience that has been shared and for this balanced solution that has been found. And of course, with proper discipline, organization and continuity, the deadline of September 1st could be met, but of course, we also leave you to follow, as well as for colleagues in the Ministry of Health to have continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u105	Thank you, Madam Minister, and thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. Before we go to the next questions, I will read two messages on the basis of art. 13, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To the President of the National Assembly Mr. Miroslav Ivanov, and to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly, there is such a people.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I hereby inform you that on the basis of art. 14, para. 3, connection to para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am leaving the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] In this regard, the second message is: In relation to the leaving of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" by the MP Kiril Simeonov according to art. 19th para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Presidents, Vice-Presidents and the members of the Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the Parliamentary Group from whose quota they have been elected. On this basis, the People's Representative Kiril Simeonov as a member and Chairman of the Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technology and as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance is hereby released. In accordance with art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be announced without discussing and voting. Those were those two messages. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Ivan Ivanov. The first question is from the MP Tsoncho Tomov Ganev on the anti-urban protection of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Ganev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The hails are a natural phenomenon, which, for the last years, for our great regret, destroys the production of many people and the damage is for millions of leva. The anti-city protection system on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria was established in the distant 1968, and, unfortunately, instead of developing technology and technology to improve, we see an exact opposite trend. On April 10, 2022, the director of the Executive Agency "Fighting with the hails" gave an interview explaining that measures are being taken to protect from the city. However, on the 28th against the 29th and on the 29th of May 2022 itself, another hailstorm destroyed plantations, killed animals, damaged property of citizens in the Rhodope region. Most affected are the municipalities of Zlatograd, Madan and Nedelino, where the ice pieces were the size of walnut, and in the village of Ogradna citizens show in front of the cameras pieces the size of a tennis ball. Mr. Minister, why is the disaster in the Rhodopes allowed, where hail has destroyed plantings, animals and private property, which is of huge value to the owners for all these movable and immovable property? The situation of the past years is repeating itself, and we are only at the very beginning of the season of hails. Once again, we are witnessing how, instead of investing in preventive protection, much more money has to be paid for damages. Given that the anti-city protection of the Republic of Bulgaria has been assigned to you as Minister of Agriculture through the Executive Agency the cities and, in view of the above, please answer the following question: does the Executive Agency have the city service with modern radars that allow quick and effective scanning of weather processes and scan the entire territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for hail clouds? Accordingly, at what time should the agency in question react in order to combat hails effectively? From what year is the available equipment and in what state are the polygons for anti-urban protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u107	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev, the Executive Agency "Fighting with the cities" implements the activities of organizing and carrying out active impacts on urban processes, provides radar meteorological monitoring of the atmosphere over the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This helps to achieve the main strategic objective, namely to support Bulgarian agriculture through the protection of crops from adverse weather phenomena, and the Agency provides protection against hailstorms with missile and aircraft. By missile method are protected territories in the districts of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Pleven, Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Sliven, Haskovo and the region of the Podbalkan fields. I have a map if you want, I'll give it to you later. This activity is carried out by 11 regional directorates with their accompanying 262 missile sites, and the protected territory has an area of more than 22 million. dka including arable land, permanent crops and mixed land use. By plane, urban protection is carried out in areas not protected by a missile system with an area of about 30 million. Dka, which covers part of North, Central and North-East Bulgaria, which includes all or part of the following administrative areas: Plevenska, Loveska, Gabrovo, Veliko Tarnovo, Rusenska, Razgradska, Targovishtka, Shumenska, Silistrenska, Varna, Dobrichka, Pazardzhishka, Plovdivska, Stara Zagorska, Slivenska, Yambolska and Burgaska. Those areas shall exclude areas where restrictions imposed by the relevant airspace control and management authorities are in place. Unfortunately, at present, the Rhodope area, where you have designated settlements: Zlatograd, Nedelino and Madan, do not fall within the scope of urban protection either by missile or by aircraft. During the active season for fighting hails, the Executive Agency "Fight with hails" provides a continuous day-to-day radar meteorological coverage on the territory of the country. The Agency has seven modern Doppler weather radar stations that provide radar coverage throughout the country. Three radar stations are located in northern Bulgaria, the village of Dolno Cervene, Montana; the village of Byrdarski Geran, Vratsa District, and in the region of Shumen. The other four radar stations are located in southern Bulgaria. The area of the village of Jarlovo, Sofia district, the village of Golyamo Charak and the village of Popovitsa, Plovdiv district, and the village of Staro selo, Sliven district. The radars work on a solid schedule and scan the atmosphere in a 500-mile radius at 360 degrees every about four minutes. The Agency provides day-to-day meteorological radar information to certain structures to the Ministry of Interior, Air Force, State-owned undertaking................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The radar information at 2500 m high is constantly displayed on the Agency's website and can be monitored by any Internet user. Following day-to-day weather developments and taking into account the characteristics of the day's atmosphere, on-call teams at the Executive Agency are ready at any time when necessary to request permission to fire anti-urban missiles from the Centre for the Coordination of Airspace Use and to launch anti-city activities. The permissions and bans for shooting are given in strict compliance with Instruction No 4 of 16 July 2010 for the anti-city protection in the Republic of Bulgaria. For anti-city protection to be effective, the cloud must be treated in advance before large hail beans are formed. For this purpose, criteria have been created based on radar reflection reflecting both microphysics and cloud development dynamics. The timely permission to fire when the conditions for ban are dropped is of particular importance, since sometimes the termination of the cloud processing, even for 10 minutes, is sufficient to restore its characteristics and to make no sense of the impact that has taken place. The replacement of the old equipment in the Executive Agency "Borba with the hails" began in 2008 and for several years five radars were purchased and in 2020 and 2021 the last two radars were put into operation in the village of Jarlovo and Shumen, aiming to better cover the Rilo-Rodope array and respectively Northeastern Bulgaria. The purchase of a set of radio electronic equipment for another 8 radar, which will be located at the command post to combat hails in the town of Dolni Dubnik, in order to better reserve radar information in case of an accident. Radar stations, as well as the rest of the anti-urban equipment, are subject to continuous service and prevention, which ensures their maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ganev? You don't have a line. Thank you. The next question is from the MP Mladen Shishkov on compensation to farmers for the damage caused by the widespread hail on 31 May 2022 in the territory of Plovdiv region. Unfortunately, I don't see Mr. Shishkov in the room. I don't know why he's gone. In this situation, Mr. Minister, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We move on to a question to the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov on a question from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Yordan Madjunkov on audits of orders under the Public Procurement Act from You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u110	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the ruling coalition is to have more transparency in both the work of the state administration and all state capital companies. In the light of your speeches, the Ministry of Information should take a greater role in the maintenance and creation of information systems in the public administration. However, before this happens, it should be clarified how procurement specifications, performance assessments are formed and how their funds are distributed. In this regard, I ask you to answer: Has the Ministry of Electronic Public Procurement of High Value, which has been audited? For example, Order No 0594820220005 worth 25 million. Nine hundred and ninety-five thousand. lv. And if so, what are the conclusions of the checks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u111	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov, honourable MPs! This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Such irregularities have not been detected and have not been detected. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Ministry of Electronic Governance does not have the power to conduct such audits, therefore none have been done, but the review of the orders, which I would not call audit, but we are still doing as a principal, shows that they are saved by computer configurations of administrations quite well. For example, 45% compared to the estimated estimated value for one particular administration or 1.9 million. lv.; another administration south 23% compared to the estimated value, or somewhere around 3 million. lv. So what is saved around the good prices offered in the framework of public procurement is there. More detailed information can be provided in relation to other orders. Indeed, I receive signals regarding the work of the service and I hire myself, including sometimes personally, to check the details of these signals. At the moment, fortunately, at least for the period of our government, I find, using my personal expertise, that there is no system problem, there are gaps sometimes, there is a difficulty in communicating with some contracting entities, but there is a systemic problem in the particular period rather no. However, this does not mean that there is no problem in general. As you have pointed out in your exhibition, the System Integrator of the State should become the System Integrator of the State. It is technically by law to be its right hand in digitalization, in this subsequent digital era, in which our administration enters, I hope. This is the practice in many European countries that we have analysed and analysed under the Coalition Agreement. Like I said, there's a problem. It is not in one or another requirement of row 74 or row 85 in a public procurement contract, nor is it in that one or another firm has been removed. If it was something so bitchy, it wouldn't make sense to discuss it from this tribune. The problem is in the legal order of award and it does create the prerequisites for doubt. Unfortunately, colleagues from GERB have adopted a law in 2019, which is, to say the least, unsuccessful, too short, too vague, too open the door for such doubts. It contradicts the Public Procurement Directive, by the way. In this context, your question is completely legitimate and thank you for your interest in this topic. The order for the award of service and the orders made by him is not an issue with which we will extract some political dividend, discussing it from the stands of the National Assembly, but it is extremely important for our path forward on the basis of digitalisation. That is why, in the Ministry of Electronic Governance, we have prepared a draft law to arrange for the award, transparency. This project includes a number of audits by both the Minister and other authorities, as well as much more transparency of each component of the award. In parallel, we have prepared a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act to add further public discussion of the technical specifications so that what you point out as part of the problem is also addressed. In conclusion, unfortunately, the first bill, which still deals with a rather large and substantial subject, in view of the newly formed opposition majority, will not be able to deal with it in detail. I hope we still have this opportunity, but at this point we will not import it and we will not upload it for public discussion. This reform must take place, so I call for a discussion and debate on it. As soon as we have a little more subtle texts, I will spread them within the remaining ruling coalition, and I hope that we will come to a decision, if not in this, in the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kirilov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is disturbing that we are also receiving signals about the work of........................................................................................... You rightly pointed out that, in fact, the Bill, which was adopted by GERB, deprives of transparency a large part of the public procurements and jobs so carried out. I would like to add that, in fact, the management, which is currently in the Service and Service, is the same one that GERB has appointed. So we can think about what to do. When building a system has been corrupted from its very beginning, there is no need to be surprised by the results. I think we should look a lot deeper into public procurement, because there are a lot of weird things. On the one hand, the one I mentioned in the question, in fact, the descriptions and specifications that are set for a particular computer equipment, lead to the idea that they are pre-destined which models and manufacturers to win, which is a problem in itself. We can also give an example when the service was a candidate for public procurement. The example is the single information system for courts. Under contract No 83320180012, announced by the SJC, for which the Service of Information and subsequently wins, the timetable provided by them, for example, does not comply with the technical specification, as there is a gap in the deadlines for implementation. Here the question is: why are they allowed to participate at all? The results are visible to all of us. And let us not forget that all the election activities from the CEC's consultation, through the processing of the results, until the re-entry of the data, as well as many others, are carried out without, I would say, any significant control at the moment. The decision of the case, which is written in the Coalition Agreement, is a matter of three signatures and I think it is time to proceed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole, Mr. Minister, would you like one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u116	I wouldn't define the results of the service. Yes, there are actually systems that are problematic for one reason or another, and there are systems that work very well. The digitalization of healthcare is in the history of rapid progress and on a topic that has been delayed for years. Regarding the electoral process, and here it may be appropriate to remind that the electoral process provides for independent observers to have access to the primary documents, namely the electoral protocols. We took advantage of this arrangement in previous elections with our volunteers and analyzed the results and counted them in parallel with the service, which gave no deviation from the result. The good thing about this election process is that it is not important who counts, but where the primary documents are and that they are subject to verification by all the participants in the elections. However, I am joining your call for more transparency, for more accountability, and if I have the opportunity, I will propose the necessary legislative amendments to achieve this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u117	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for participating in parliamentary control. The next question is from MP Petar Kulenski to Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. Don't read it, you're on the stand, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Energy! During a meeting with citizens in the 13th Multiannual Election Region, Pazardzhik, I was informed of a problem related to the activity of a quarry for extraction of inert materials from the locality..................................................................................... In addition, the Commission notes that the UK authorities have not provided any evidence of the fact that the UK authorities have not provided any evidence of the existence of State aid in the form of State aid. The same led, according to local residents, to drying the groundwater and closing of the probes, falling and cracking of some of the foundations of the residential buildings, and also to the passage of heavy goods equipment on the bridge over the Maritsa River, connecting the villages of Sinitovo and Mirjantsi, the same bridge was damaged. For months the residents of the village of Miryantsi informed the institutions, but unfortunately, until recently there was no result. And that is why my question is: has the Ministry of Energy carried out a test to measure the depth from which the inert materials are extracted from the quarry and does the Ministry of Energy intend to take follow-up action in relation to the verification of the concessionaire's activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Minister, please respond, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Kulenski, in response to your question about carrying out checks and taking action in relation to the activity of a quarry for extraction of inert materials, the locality of the village of Miryantsi, Pazardzhik Municipality, I inform you the following: The concession contract is for the extraction of underground riches under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Underground wealth, construction materials, sand and gravel from the locality of East, located in the land of the village of Miryantsi, Pazardzhik municipality, Pazardzhik district. The concessionaire is "Careers Pazardzhik" Ltd., Pazardzhik city. The concession contract was concluded on 17 April 2012 for a period of 15 years and entered into force on 17 May 2013. Until now, no further agreement has been concluded under any clause. Until now, the Ministry of Energy has received numerous complaints of the same nature. In the context of the first complaint and the examination of the matters of competence, an on-the-spot check was carried out and was carried out on 26 February 2021. A number of documents were examined and analysed in this regard. As a result of the verification carried out in 2021, it is found that underground mining activities, namely sand and gravel, are carried out in accordance with the production permits granted. Checks of the production activity are carried out annually and no infringements have been detected at present. The questions raised in complaints concerning the destruction of residential buildings, air cleanliness, soil composition, soil waters and so on are not of the functional competence of the Minister of Energy. In connection with the above also with Order No 154 of 28 June 2021 of the Regional Governor of Pazardzhik District was appointed Interdepartmental Commission with eight representatives from different institutions: Regional Administration The Interdepartmental Commission with Chairman Stoyan Ivanchev, an employee of the Regional Administration in Pazardzhik has held two meetings and the first one is on 6 July 2021 and the site is visited again on the ground. A series of additional checks have been carried out and additional information from the parties concerned has been requested. The second meeting of the Interdepartmental Commission was held on 8 September 2021 and a protocol was drawn up with the results of the checks awarded, further analyses were carried out on the additional information provided. In this regard, the following decisions have been taken: firstly, due to the fact that the bridge facility over the Maritsa River connecting the villages Miryantsi and Sinitovo, Pazardzhik Municipality, through the municipality road PAC 11-26 and the municipal road PAC 11-35 of the municipal road network, the Interdepartmental Commission considers that in the right of Pazardzhik Municipality it is to assess whether to introduce a restriction on the movement of motor vehicles over a certain tonnage on this bridge. For this purpose Pazardzhik Municipality may order the preparation of technical expertise of the existing bridge facility in view of the lack of building documentation. Secondly, the Interdepartmental Commission is unable to establish a direct link between the presence of cracked buildings in the village of Miryantsi and the activities of the "Careers Pazardzhik" Ltd. Third, the Interdepartmental Commission considers it impossible for the concessionaire's activities to have led to obstruction and obstruction of groundwater probes located within the regulatory boundaries of the village of Miryantsi, given the direction of the underground water movement in the area, as well as their distance from the concession field. Fourth, the RIEW of Pazardzhik to continue the control regarding the dew of the inland-cereal road on which motor vehicles loaded with aggregates leave to reduce the dustiness of the air in the area. Pazardzhik Municipality must require the "Careers Pazardzhik" to move the fence that it builds, which enters public property with identifier 48-444.18.66 agricultural road public municipal property, thus limiting access to property with identifier 48-444.18.35. In connection with the depth of the formations that have been hatched by activities in the field...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u121	Mr. Nikolov, I just want to ask, because we're way ahead of time. Do you have a lot more, or can you finish up in the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u122	In the back, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u123	Okay, let's do that, because two minutes is already over the time of the answer. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u124	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. However, in 2022, I am familiar with the controls of 2021, but in 2022 a joint inspection was carried out by the Basin Directorate of the East-West Sea basin and the RIEW Pazardzhik, where it was found that the depth from which the inert materials were extracted was extracted was 14.7 m. According to the decision on environmental impact assessment in relation to the 2013 process career, it is recorded on page four that a water area of 75,3 decares and a depth of 7 to a maximum of 12 m will be formed as a result of the extraction works. It is evident from this inspection by the official institutions that the depth is significantly increased in excavation actions. I, as a national representative elected by Pazardzhik district, cannot fail to comply with the will of the inhabitants of the village of Miryantsi and not ask if the Ministry of Energy, as a concession holder, will exercise its rights under the concession contract, including taking action to put an end to concession activities in the career, in case it considers, naturally, that such are admissible and necessary? And last but not least, Mr. Minister, in order to gain an idea of the seriousness of the problem, I will present to you a citizen's signature that the residents of the village of Miryantsi have given me to give it to you. Under it have signed 223 people from the village and they expect the state to enter its functions and protect their interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kulenski, yes, I was going to get to 2022 in the back. Thank you for the materials provided, I will review the signature. Following checks carried out from 2021 by letter No E-26-K-315 of 25 November 2021 to the Ministry of Energy, the Director of RIEW Pazardzhik expressed his opinion that the EIA Decision No 1-1 of 2013 was in force and the depth of the seizure of the underground wealth was up to 14 m. A tachymetric photograph was provided annually, prepared by a licensed marker after shooting using sonar, the so-called echolot, and GPS with the required scope and accuracy of the measurement. At present, it is apparent from the tachymetric photos provided to the annual work projects that the depth of the extraction of the useful fossil is up to the 14 m allowed. These 14 m have been reached in only two sections of the Kotlovan formations of the quarry locality of East, Pazardzhik municipality. On 22 February 2022, a joint inspection of the Swimming Directorate was carried out, as you mentioned absolutely precisely, the Eastern White Sea Region and the RIEW Pazardzhik. A member of the Department of Natural Resources, concessions and control of the Ministry of Energy and Mr. Biser Angelov Jokov, representative of the Initiative Committee of the village of Miryantsi, took part in the work of the checks. The purpose of the inspection is to measure the maximum depth of the quarry lake. The measurement is done by boat, sonar bottom scan and roulette measurement from 50 m to 7 points, and the corresponding coordinates have been downloaded. The deepest measured depth in one of the points is 14.4 m, taking into account that the water mirror of the lake varies depending on the seasonal climate, respectively the depth. The measured points thus correspond to the tachymetric photograph of the quarry provided by the Ministry of Energy. In conclusion, I inform you that by letter No E-26-K-210 of 25 March 2022 of "Careers Pazardzhik" Ltd. according to art. 39, para. 2, p. 4 of the Treaty on the grant of a concession for the extraction of underground wealth, construction materials, sand and gravel in the locality "Iztok" Pazardzhik region, an application for termination of the concession contract has been submitted with effect from 3 January 2021. The Ministry of Energy has launched the relevant procedure and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreed approved projects, including the project for the recultivation of the affected land from the extraction and primary processing of the underground wealth in the area of the locality. In addition to the already mentioned procedure launched, what we will do after reviewing the civil signature is to make sure of all the data provided at the current time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u127	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. The question to the Minister of Transport and Communications is postponed, so we move on to the parliamentary control of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. The first question is from the MP Escheref Escheref on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you are, Mr. Esheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I will ask you this question for the second time, and this time I hope that you will find the answer and answer me, and I will answer the person who asks me every week what has happened to my answer for almost a year? Dear Minister, the date is July 8, 2021, the place is the village of Chernograd, Aytos municipality, Burgas district. On this date there was a survey and search of the vehicle of Mr. Deniz Remzi Hajrula, who is a member of the DPS District Council in Burgas. In his car were found only agitating materials, and the same is required to sign a protocol that distributes such materials. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the abovementioned examination and search has been carried out; has the prosecution been informed and what further action on the case described? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Questions do not affect the personal rights and interests of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u129	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Friday exercise on the same question, and it is the same question because it coincides as an event. Two people are riding in a car in the village, which the MP quoted, the passenger car was stopped by employees of the Ministry of Interior and there was an appropriate inspection. And instead of asking this question to be clarified, we will ask now twice, that is, if there were five people inside the passenger car, we would ask five times. I appreciate this not in any other way, but simply wasting plenary time and being activists of parliamentary control. Once I have answered this question and I cannot answer more than what we have already said here, but there is still a small difference between what is written in the written question to which I have to answer today orally, and what we have just heard from the microphone, from the MP who asks. There's a small difference, but substantial. First of all, one question, it's not a question, it's a finding. The Member of the National Assembly has found that harassment has been carried out in respect of a citizen and pressure has been put on. It's a finding, a conclusion, a truth from the last instance. And second of all, why was the inspection carried out? Let me put it this way, because otherwise we're getting a lot deeper, and some people here are offended that we're turning the plenary room into a lecture room. He asks: is there pressure or no pressure? There are only claims of pressure. The Ministry of Interior has not received any material, complaint, complaint, or the relevant prosecutor's office in Aytos, Burgasko, any such material to refer to this prosecutor's office or police office to carry out an inspection, much less such material has been received by the Minister of Interior last year. However, there is one claim that someone has put pressure and harassment somewhere. On this subject, I have repeatedly stated that if such pressure and harassment were actually carried out by a police officer, please contact the relevant prosecution to order an investigator to carry out this inspection. The plenary room is not a room for examination of such hypotheses. I can't say anything more about this. Second, however, it is said that a protocol has been drawn up for this man, whom Mr. Escheref asked, not to distribute agitative materials. It's unclear where this protocol is. I think it should be presented to the question in order to see that this is indeed the content of the protocol, as the data that I have is that it is not a protocol for non-appying during the elections, but is something else, and if I have the opportunity, I will say exactly what it is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u131	Maybe in the back. Here's a line for you, Mr. Esheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u132	Mr. Minister, yes, the man wasn't alone, two were with a candidate for MP, but I'm asking specifically about him, as I said at the beginning, because he's asking us. It is about a young man who, unlike most of his peers, is willing and engaged in political activity. And because then, the concrete moment was the election campaign, the end of the election campaign, when Bulgaria had the first election with mandatory engine voting, so this young man was taking his time and through agitating materials, through materials from the Central Election Commission, with a tablet with a machine voting simulator just showing voters how the paperless vote would be carried out and that it was not so complicated, and that they would also handle the engine voting. According to us, Mr. Minister, such young people should be encouraged, should be motivated, and this cannot be done with a public search of his car, with the obligation to sign protocols, because our understanding, at least by what you declare now and by this platform, and your understanding is that we, as acting politicians, are called and to fight, and to reduce apathy among young people in political terms, because we believe that this is the future of Bulgaria and these are the people who will take our seats tomorrow. And I am sure that these are the people who will carry out the so widely proclaimed, long-awaited, but also unfulfilled change, real change, I would say, and not like today's.... from bad to worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u133	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u134	To continue, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to say a few specific things, because the bad employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are stopping people and checking them out. Now I'll tell you that yesterday, on the occasion of a police operation in Samokov, a total of around 590 persons, several dozen cars and so on, addresses have done work that night, because they attacked police officers, beat one of them, doubt what was in the car, an object they couldn't have, couldn't be owned, and had to check the car. He's been stopped in due course. I'll tell you what that has to do with anything. And I've been stopped many times by police officers to check whether it's paperwork or what's in the car that I'm running. These two persons, as we are now two or three times already dealing with a car in which there are two persons, but we will do so, have actually been stopped by police officers and I will tell you why. It's not just because someone finds and doesn't have a job, it's because a signal has been received from the citizen N.S.P. At the police station. However, the signal was precisely because people with a car were moving in the locality, had questionable behaviour from the point of view of the reporter related to the illegal activity of buying-selling votes. That's the signal. This signal was taken by the police department, visited the locality, checked the passenger car. The passenger car has been checked in accordance with art. 81 and the next ones from the Ministry of Interior Act, i.e. they were looking for such funds to buy and sell votes. I don't want to say any more. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So no illegal activity has been carried out. And no protocol has been drawn up, notice not to distribute agitating materials, and they are legally required, when carrying out a motor vehicle inspection, to document this activity precisely because of similar accusations that they are carrying out an illegal vehicle inspection. The claim registered in this case was sent to the Aytos District Prosecutor's Office, which subsequently ruled in an appropriate order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Andrey Chorbanov on an investigation into abuse of office in the Regional Education Management Sofia-district. Here you are, Mr. Chorbanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I must say that the question was asked in early March, but there was no way it could have gotten there sooner. He was at the same time asked the Minister of Education and Science, as he was also concerned with a question of the same nature, but the minister's reply at the time was that without your response and actions of your subordinates respectively, there is no way for him to take an opinion. My question is this: after public information was made available by Minister Boyko Rashkov about abuse of office on principals of schools and teachers who were campaigned to vote for a particular party and after numerous meetings with citizens in Sofia region, I was repeatedly asked the question of how far the investigation went and what measures the Minister of Interior had taken regarding the pressure of an employee from Regional Education Management. People are worried about future consequences as to whether they will keep their jobs and express their free will and right to choose. And the question is: at what stage is the investigation of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding your question is clear to me, my answer is as follows: in the Ministry of Interior there has been a signal of abuse of the position of the Head of Regional Management of Education, Sofia, and led by him an election campaign and campaigning in schools, kindergartens and so on with a request to vote for the Political Party GERB. A check has been carried out, information has been taken from relevant officials leading schools, kindergartens in this territory, which is served by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. All collected materials are completed and sent to the District Attorney's Office on 10 August 2021 for a ruling. At present, there has been no request from the Prosecutor's Office to carry out further actions in the case. Thank you. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u139	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Would you like the word for a line? No. We move on to the next question, which is also from Mr. Escheref. I don't read it because it's the same subject. Here you are, Mr. Esheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the next question is for a young woman. The date is 7 July 2021, village of Karageorgievo, municipality of Aitos, district of Burgas. Ms. Nesse Ahmed is an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and has been called three times in the District Department of Aytos for handing out agitating materials and teaching people using a tablet with a machine voting simulator. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis is it called in the District Department Aytos; has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the Ministry of Interior and the issues do not affect the rights and personal interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u141	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u142	The question is identical, of course, and only the names differ in the cases described by the people's representative Escheref, and therefore my response must be almost identical in at least one of the parts, namely for the actions pressure and harassment. What the pressure is expressed and what the harassment is expressed in, is not described here and I cannot answer that question. That's a very conditional statement for me, that's how I understand it. However, if there is such data, I should still refer you to the prosecution, because by our laws there is even such an obligation to contact the prosecution if you really have evidence of a crime committed. These questions are referred there, not here. That's one part of my answer. The other part is that it was also received in the police, as in the previous case, they are identical, a signal of unlawful action. Actions have been carried out by several persons, one of whom was referred to a moment ago by you in the questioning lady. What can I say here? Indeed, an inspection has been carried out on this signal. There's a file registered at the police station in Aytos City, and here I have the number of this file. I mean, this isn't about some self-indulgence just out of the boredom of police officers. They have done their job, as in many other cases, on other and different signals. As the election time actually increases the number of alerts on violations related to the electoral process and so on, they have started to carry out their conduct. They reported to the D.A., of course. According to the instructions given by the monitoring prosecutor, one of the women who participated in that group, as far as I know from the information they provided me, caused the signal to be released and the monitoring prosecutor ordered that woman to be warned by a protocol under Article. 65, para. 1 of the SVR. Such a protocol has indeed been drawn up in connection with, perhaps I say, but no one has filed charges of election crime, namely: buying and selling votes. The case has been reported to the prosecution in the Aytos territorial unit and the prosecutor's decree has refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, the data collected from the verification did not give any reason to take action in an investigation against those persons. That's the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Esheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u144	Thank you. Honourable President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, we ask you these questions with specific data to investigate and unravel each particular case. For us behind each case there is a particular person, there is a particular human destiny. In parallel with the questions asked, we have also requested that you present us with specific documents, which we have not received for the fifth month, although according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly you are obliged. The rules are tantamount to law, but another law that has been broken for you is clearly not a problem. We ask you because these people are asking us, and they've been expecting answers from all of us for almost a year now, I can tell you that. They ask us why, provided they didn't do anything wrong, they were subjected to it illegally during an election campaign. In this case, the young woman in question has been called three times, as I said, and notice if she has employees at her work in the tailoring shop, where she works, in front of her coworkers and friends, as if she had committed a major crime to call her to appear in the district office. Was there no other way? She asks us the following questions: is it a crime in today's democratic Bulgaria to have political views, to sympathise with a particular political party and to participate in the election campaign? As I said, our request and purpose are to shed light on every particular case, and we expect you, when you come to parliamentary control, to respond specifically, with specific data, not stencilly, to find out in any case whether there is a crime committed or not, and if not, whether or not there is an excess of employee rights. What is more interesting is that we do not doubt the loyalty of the employees of the Ministry of Interior and blame them, but is there no instructions for this to them and by whom? I don't think there's gonna be any writing. Probably... Mr. Minister, if you have any doubts about such data and some remorse, one excuse is enough for these people to begin with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u145	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Do you want the police authorities to do their job by law or not? Say it clearly. Say the following: our sympathizers, members of the DPS, candidates for mayors, MPs and so on cannot be checked by anyone, including the Ministry of Interior. However, where data is available, there are reports of violations, so generally speaking, of the law and police authorities, they shall assess how to communicate with citizens whose actions and conduct are being examined. Whether they will be called on the phone, which is permissible by law, whether they will be called by a written subpoena, whether they will go to the place where they work and so on, they will decide this with a view and speed after all, because especially in the election period, preventive action must be taken and any attempts to commit crimes related to the electoral process must be intercepted, prevented by the date that the real choice is made. So I don't know exactly what motivated the employees to go to this woman's office, but this is a completely legitimate activity. Do not restrict the staff of the Ministry of Interior from looking in such a way for those who are needed to be able to remove explanations from them, information from them, data from them, so that a file can be solved. They have the necessary freedom by law. On what grounds do you want to limit them, I don't know, but that can't happen. One more thing. Besides, the lady you're asking about, nothing bad has happened to her, except if it's bad that the staff of the Ministry of Interior had to meet her and have to talk to her. So what's next?! There's no big deal about it. [[Dispute from DPS: "Degradation. "]] Any contact with employees of the Ministry of Interior is hardly possible to put under the denominator. These are your interpretations, and now in a moment, by connecting this simple check that was done in Aytosco, with the revival process and we will fix the whole thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u147	Mr. Rashkov, let's not get into this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u148	And one more thing. You've been asking me a template question since last year or since this year, and you just asked me not to give you a stencil answer. Then how? A simple question is normal, and if you wish fair, to answer you in a mundane way. Finally, I will finish this with this woman. No one has prevented her from exercising her political rights. Nobody! There is no such data in the information sent to me by the Regional Directorate of Internal Affairs Burgas. And since it is really too much to talk about how to correspond the services of the Ministry of Interior with your sympathizers, members and so on, it is still right, let someone come out and say a sentence of sentence No 113 of 2021 in a criminal case of a general nature on which the person T. T. D. is convicted for buying votes in favour of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The same area you ask me about and claim that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior do not do their job, but abuse it. How are they gonna prove this crime if they don't go meet these people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u149	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u150	And did one of the Ministry of Interior pay for the purchase and sale of votes? Here, the court has one such decision. Take a look at this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u151	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. That last one wasn't about that, I think, so let's stick to the questions. It's a question from the MP Sevim Ali. Here you are, Mr. Ali, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the House! Minister, there are other decisions in court, just to tell you. I would like to draw your attention to another issue that concerns pressure and harassment during the election campaign and on election day. I would like to point out that there is a different case behind every question put by the parliamentary group of "A movement for rights and freedoms" stands also a bruised human dignity. In this case, it concerns a respected authority person in the areas of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and not only. On 11 July 2021 in the city of Burgas Mr. Sharaffet Mehmed, who is the municipal president of DPS and municipal councillor from DPS, twice, honourable colleagues, was checked on the election day in the district of Pobeda, having conducted a search of his personal belongings and of the car with which he was travelling. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings have the above-mentioned checks and searches been carried out? Is there a ruling from the court, has the prosecution been informed and what further action is taken on the case described? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and the questions do not affect the personal rights and interests of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ali. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have another statement that the Ministry of Interior is exerting pressure and harassment. There's a claim. In the same way, in the same logic I can say now, because this is reported by the platform of parliament that citizen Sharafet Asat Mehmed has been harassing and pressured the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Same logic. Instead, of course, I would still say that if there is such data about an officer of the Ministry of Interior, who has allowed himself to go beyond what allows the law, which is outlined by the law as his authority, to address the prosecution, which may order an investigation by pointing out specific data. And since you obviously cannot specify such specific data and we are currently using parliamentary time for a statement. With all due respect! A statement is a statement, facts are facts. I'm just going to tell you some facts, of course. Unlike the claim of pressure and harassment, and that by checking one person, his dignity and honour are impaired if he is from the DPS, it is absolutely forbidden for the Ministry of Interior to carry out such checks. You're challenging me to speak to what I'm listening to from you. Otherwise, things are different. On the 11th you ask, yes, after lunch during a tour with a service car employees of the first district management in Burgas check persons located in two stopped cars on a corresponding street where polling stations are housed. The inspection has identified, of course, the persons between them and the citizen you are asking about, Mr. Ali, but they are first clarified that by stopping the vehicles at that point, they are interfering with traffic. Real prerequisites for the occurrence of a traffic accident shall be created. The free passage of citizens from and to the electoral sections and these citizens, for one of whom you ask, has been asked by police officers to move cars. In the course of the inspection, one of the leaders was found not to be communicating his name, was declared a statewide search, was invited to the precinct to clarify certain circumstances. I'll be right back. That's the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u155	Yeah, time's up. Here's a line. You have the floor, Mr. Ali. The final answer will have to be in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, nothing new under the sun, attempts at suggestion, again a political statement here from this tribune. Most cases of 90% of them turned out to be on alert. I can tell you the following: that no signal can be a basis for illegal actions against political rights, the rights of Bulgarian citizens who are scheduled in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. And remember one thing, we will not be silent when it comes to direct interference in the electoral process, when it is obviously about humiliation, attempts at intimidation and attempts at suggestion, for that This is not the first time from this tribune I will say that we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, support the activities of the Ministry of Interior's employees to prevent the vote being bought and have always been about the fight against the vote bought. And once again, Minister, you state from this platform that there are really no such attempts at pressure, for harassment of Bulgarian citizens during the July elections, in November. Then I ask you the following question: why, since the end of February this year, the parliamentary group of the 111 and 138 have asked you for all of these cases to provide us with documentation to see on what basis these people have been examined. Why don't you give them to us? Because also Mr. Sherafet Mehmed, who was checked twice on the day of the election, and Mr. Mustafa Hoxha, who is the mayor of the village of Zaichar, on election day the elections are stopped for the election process of an hour and notice, verbally ordered him, I quote: "If possible, go home. ".......................................................... So be so kind as to provide us with all these documents that we have requested in the order of parliamentary control to see if there is really pressure being put on or not over those people that we are questioning from this parliamentary tribune and we will not give up asking questions until we really learn the truth about these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Here you are, Mr. Minister, and you can finish the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u158	Yes, I will finish the answer by saying that these bad employees of the Ministry of Interior...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u159	They're not bad...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u160	...have encountered a person who has been declared wanted by the Schengen Information System, one of those who have been stopped. [[Heckling]] So as far as this gentleman is concerned, who is being asked here today, no action has been taken on him relating to searches, personal searches or others, and the examination itself, notice, has nothing to do with the election day, with the election process. But you see how easy it is to connect from this tribune a check that establishes a wanted person under the Schengen Information System with the electoral process? how easy it is to connect from this tribune, because from here everyone can say whatever they want. [[Heckling]] And one more thing, I've answered many times, and now I'm going to answer again. In the Ministry of Interior there is no funny thing to sound like what I'm about to say, there are no documents for harassment and pressure, and that is why we cannot provide such documents, because such documents are not drawn up and there are no such documents anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This procedure, Mr. Ali, is in violation of the regulations, but please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and it is to you because you have allowed the Interior Minister here to make suggestions, to speak factually inaccuracies, because the question asked by me about pressure and harassment during an election campaign concerned the person Sherafet Mehmed, while the answer given by the Interior Minister is for a very different person, for whom no question has been asked. And in this way he insinuates both to the people's representation and to all those who look at us that hardly the municipal president of DPS Burgas, Sherafet Mehmed, the municipal councillor is wanted by Interpol's order. Therefore, make a remark to the Interior Minister when he speaks factually inaccuracies here from the highest tribune of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Maybe I didn't understand, but I was under the impression that these two cases were related to the other person, but your question is about the person in question, because they were together, as far as I understand, and the check was on the other person, but I think it became clear with your clarification what it was about. That is also the purpose of parliamentary control. However, let us not abuse this procedure, since there should be no further comments on the same subject after the minister's duplicate. We skip the questions from Mr. Ebatine and get to the question from Mr. Nestorov on the same subject, so I don't mention it. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, you are an established penalist, but I will nevertheless allow you to meet two short compositions of the Penal Code. Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 reads: "The person who, before a proper authority, has accused someone of a crime, knowing that he is innocent, or presenting untrue evidence against him, is punished by incriminating him with imprisonment from one to six years old. " Another composition, Mr Minister, from your favorite Chapter Three, Section III of the Penal Code: The person who through violence, fraud, intimidation or other illegal means prevents someone from exercising his or her selective right to either be elected or voted or to participate in a referendum shall be punished by imprisonment from 1 to 3 years and by fine. Mr. Minister, you're talking about over 20,000 inspections you did during the two election campaigns. At the same time, for agreements awarded there is no indication of more than one that counts on the fingers of one hand. In this regard, I will not ask you how many checks you have done on these two compositions, because I know the answer is zero or close to zero, my question is how long are we going to keep doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u165	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u166	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, did you have a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u167	In principle, you have to answer the one in the text first of all, the other one is wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u168	Here is quoted from this tribune art. 286 of the penal code. I don't know what it is. There is also a text quoted from Chapter Three that was my favorite. No, it's your favorite chapter, not mine. You do some things there. You motivate people to go against 100 or 200 BGN. and finally bring them to justice... [[speaking indistinctly]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u169	Now, when you say you, when you say you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u170	...so, the favorite part of the Penal Code is your Chapter Three, not mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u171	Mr. Rashkov, just for a second. When you say that, the MPs from the DSS are implied, I don't suppose that's not what you mean, is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u172	Why, it's not very clear. You can't even... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u173	Don't point them out or I'll...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u174	I'm sorry. Maybe I went the wrong way. Here, Mr. Nestorov, as far as I'm concerned, the question concerns other things about Vratsa, about White Slatina, and now they're asking me about a text in art. 286, why did you say that, I couldn't understand. Mr. Chairman, I don't understand the question. Do they want me to explain what it is? I can do it right away, only here is not a proper authority National Assembly, so it is very difficult to say that someone is doing such a work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u175	It'll be very useful to everyone that we've been talking about national traitors since the other day, but I'm suggesting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u176	The law says a proper authority, and already the practice of the Supreme Court tells what is said under proper authority, and the theory.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u177	I suggest you answer the question as asked, and Mr. Nestorov in the line can ask the question you asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u178	Let me get a question. I don't have a question to answer. [[Heckling]] No question, there are qualifications for me that this is my specialty and also a favorite part of the special part of the Penal Code, which is not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u179	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Now you have the opportunity to reply, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, let me make a little clarification. I am sure that the answer to this question, which I have asked you, does not be difficult for you, but you always say that these checks you are doing are either on a signal, i.e. this is where the insinuation is, and if you do not have data about it, that is to say, art. 167, para. 1 of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and therefore I asked you how many checks have been carried out. Why am I asking you this thing? Mr. Rashkov, Fenellin from the village of Birkachevo is an advocate of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There are electrical appliances damaged because of this job. Not a single protocol has been drawn up and the alert protocol has not been served on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u181	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Now maybe you can essentially answer for the particular person now, if you have an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u182	Now I know what this is about. Otherwise, where are we going in the lecture section of my speeches? And I've already started holding back from this thing because it's annoying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u183	No, it's good for everyone, but let's move on to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u184	I think so, too. Now we have really here materials in this relationship..... where were you, White Slatina. On 9 July a signal was received from a person who presented himself as R.C. has a mobile number, that persons, including the person you are asking for, and others, have named him to the person for whom you are asking, are buying votes in the respective settlement. That's the signal. If we claim that the signals in this direction are that someone calls 112 and says: now I saw someone-who did something-what you are. If we qualify this as an indictment, we must close the European international number 112, we must immediately put the cross on it. This leads to the conclusion of the claims of the Member of the National Assembly. So, this signal was received. A file has been filed, as is usual, it is a legal activity, that is, there is a trace of what is being done, and, of course, immediately informs the Vratsa District Prosecutor's Office....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And now, according to some guidelines for the organisation of joint work with the prosecution, the necessary actions have been taken to verify and clarify the signal. And therefore, in this context, in this direction, quite normal, routine, as in any such case, reports have been taken from relevant persons. Here I read about ten or twelve persons who have contacted the police officers to get information - is it true, isn't it true and so on? In fact, three checks have been carried out after such prior information is available in several properties inhabited by the persons and indicated in the alert. And now the name of the person you're asking for is included. But it's not just his house that's being checked out. On the basis of art. 65 to three of the persons are drawn up warning protocols so as to be protected from the temptation to buy and sell votes. That's what it was all about. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let me say in this case something else that I once said and I will repeat: if there are 20,000 warning protocols, they do not only apply to election crimes. This is last year in relation to a number of other cases in which the law suggests that such protocols should be drawn up, including.. I will also quote in relation to domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u185	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will address you personally in the manner of conduct, because as the highest institution in the state through you to address the lower institution in the state, namely the Ministry of Interior. Because we also understand from the answers that it is a little difficult for ministers to navigate how to respond. And since it was about buying votes, I would like to ask you an hour rather to signal for the largest shopping of MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u187	Mr. Ibryamov, I'll take your word for it! It has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u188	This, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u189	If you have such data, point them where they should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u190	These are the words of the Bulgarian President. Your president!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u191	I'll take your word for it. Our president, with the data, is looking into the D.A.'s office and the DANS. I'm taking your word away, Mr. Ibryamov! [[The President turns off the microphones. People's representative Jayhan Ibryamov continues to speak with microphones off.]] You can talk, you can't hear. I'm taking your word away, and I'll have you removed from the hearing if you continue. Did you hear me? Please release the stands! You do the letter, I don't have that kind of data. If you wish, Mr. Ibryamov, if you have such data. If you'd like to release the stands. Please let the Quaestors help me! Whoever is elected and has information that someone is buying can file this information to the DANS, to the D.A.'s office. I don't have that kind of data! [[(Replication with microphones turned off by Jaihan Ibryamov: the Bulgarian President!]] If you're quoting him, ask him to submit this data, Mr. Ibryamov. Please do not interfere with parliamentary control with such speeches. We are continuing with a question again.. note yourself, Mr. Minister, of Alexander Nestorov, as Mr. Enchev is currently still on the Commission, Mr. Chobanov is absent from Mr. Nestorov. If you're in a different order, take a look. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, let's continue our conversation just now. When the D.A.'s office hasn't established a criminal record that terminated a case file, isn't the alerter in the form of 286, if I may ask? This is probably also about the next case, which I ask you about Mr. Emil Dimitrov from the village of Galice. Please provide some clarification on what basis all these things have happened as pressure and repression by the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u193	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We'll have to continue the lecture course a little bit. No, it's not in the composition of art. 286 of the penal code when someone reported it to 112. It's not happening! I won't sign your license either, but let's move on. In fact, I, Mr. Chairman, could not hear the people's representative develop his question. Or am I wrong? He should, when he comes here instead of asking me about art. 286, to first develop the issue, to hear what other MPs are talking about, what they are asking. Let the audience hear, if any, the listeners. And to hear my answer. I think that's how it should be. I didn't hear a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u195	If it's about me, I'll answer it right away. Normally you should, but you have the question, if viewers have the opportunity, they can see it on the website of the National Assembly as a whole for orientation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u196	Mr. Chairman, I'll read his question, he didn't develop it, but I'll read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u197	In principle, you have every right to do anything about the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u198	All MPs already know and perhaps all TV viewers know that the issues are the same about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u199	They're not the same, they're different cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u200	And here's the question, it's the same thing, and now all of a sudden, on this question, which is mundane, we have another name written, different from what was written before. And now, on the subject that is asked by the MP for pressure and harassment. I say that pressure and harassment by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, neither in this case nor in any other case, has such pressure and such harassment been put on. The citizen you are asking me about is entitled, on the basis of a number of laws in our country, to turn with a corresponding complaint, a request and so on and complain to the competent authorities. The competent authorities shall in no case include Parliament, as the effect will be none. We can't prove it here. We here can talk on the microphone and waste parliamentary time, sometimes completely unfounded. So turn around, or this citizen should turn to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. And then, when the D.A. does a background check and decides, announce it here from the floor of parliament. A search of the house has been carried out. Don't do a house search. There's a search. A search by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior is done under the Ministry of Interior Act. There's also protocol. Let's see what this case is now. On an alert received at the District Department sofia Slatina, the person you are asking about, dear Mr. Nestorov, is dealing, to say the least, with an illegal activity in connection with violation of the citizens' electoral rights related to the elections on 11 July. That's what the signal is for, as usual. and on the same date on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act was examined at the residence of this person on this basis, on the legal basis both in the garage and in business buildings, which are located in Byala Slatina and are occupied these premises by him. There is a corresponding protocol as required by the Ministry of Interior Act in order to have a trace of this activity. There are explanations, of course, taken from individuals who the Ministry of Interior has decided should give, and it is not just the person you ask for. A protocol is also provided under art. 65, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act, it is a warning protocol. He's also registered, there's written evidence of him at the police station. And he has been warned in this protocol that the person is warned not to violate the electoral rights and rules in relation to the electoral process. The materials are sent to the District Prosecutor's Office in Vratsa District, in Byala Slatina and to the Vratsa District Prosecutor's Office. I've always said where we have information and data, what the effect is, what the result was. The claim by the police authorities themselves has ended with a corresponding opinion. The opinion of the police officers is that despite the transparent actions and the data collected, they are not sufficient to initiate criminal proceedings. This opinion of the police officers was also adopted by the monitoring prosecutor D.H. and by the number of the decree of 9 July "see how quickly the questions were moving then, a decree of refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings was drawn up. So the actions of the police authorities together with the prosecution have been carried out in full compliance with the laws of the country. In full compliance! [[Reply: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u201	Yes, Mr. Minister, we're a little out of time for an answer. I hope what you said was enough. Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, Birkachevo and Galice and Emile and Fenellin are different people. Welcome to the next election campaign, which will be soon. Come with us, we'll introduce you, you'll see how we make choices. Now let me tell you a few things why there are more people who have created 65 warning protocols. Because, first of all, copies of these protocols have not been served. Secondly, the pretext on which people go to the home for a search, for which you are correct, is a routine inspection. And thirdly, mostly a lot of people are because there were his two children and his wife, and he was abroad. If that's what you're assessing as a dignified act on your part, it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u203	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Would you like a hole, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The young MEP Nestorov wants a little forcefully to impose his opinion on the issue of the parliamentary tribune. That's not how this job works! One must know one thing and not say one thing that does not find support in the law, at the very least. No copy of the warning protocol was served. I've said it many times: take it, embrace this law of the Ministry of Interior. There in art. 65, para. 2 You will see that no copy of the warning protocol is given to the person who is being warned. It's not served, it's not required! And you point that out as a violation of police officers without knowing it. You have to, to criticize, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, let me just point out that today's plenary session will continue for another 20 minutes until 14.45. Mrs. Kabak, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! During the election campaign in July in Velingrad, Pazardzhik District Mr. Yumer Hamza, who is the regional chairman of the DPS in Pazardzhik, has been called twice for questioning in the Regional Government. Please explain to me: on what legal basis has the gentleman in question been called, has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on the case described?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! And here the difference is only in the name, as Mrs. Kabak has already mentioned. And there's also talk of pressure and harassment. I can't say a word about this. I don't think there's been any pressure or harassment. Anyone can claim what they want, but such accusations must still be backed up with some specific data. We're very sensitive when someone gets called in for questioning. And here he sees this, and in the speeches. The reason for calling the gentleman to the respective police station in Velingrad is based on pre-trial proceedings. Nobody called him because he was bored with the police. They called him there because there was previously registered Prescription No 3323, there was applicant material No 324/2021, according to the description of the District Prosecutor's Office, Pazardzhik, for a possible crime and under art. 167, para. 2 of the Penal Code, such as the Prosecutor's Office, honourable MPs has given instructions on what to do by the police authorities. Secondly, the same citizen has been invited to the Ministry of Interior's Regional Government (MI) Velingrad, in connection with a signal received under the single number 112............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On this occasion, a file was registered at the police station No 367-P-12735 of 9 July 2021 according to the description of the District Department of Velingrad. The guy who made the call used a cell phone has it here in the file, which means he's not anonymous, although, by signaling, he didn't state his name. The same citizen has pointed out that the person you are asking about a DPS district leader has given a sum of 70. 80 thousand. lv. of another citizen's municipal councillor, I suppose he's an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that's what I think by the name.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u209	That's a guess!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u210	Do you want me to say his name? I don't want to announce the name of the man in this tribune here. [[Extreme lines from DPS.]] Why are you in dialogue with me? [[Extreme lines from DPS.]] The name of the person is written for buying votes for the political party GERB and for the political party DPS. He said some of the money was in the house of the second guy I'm saving his name to. And the other part that buys votes is in his sister's shop. Should I read more? It seems rather humiliating to me. Mr. Chairman, let me stop reading. They won't listen anyway because they don't like me. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u211	Mr. Minister, give the answer as you see fit. For almost five minutes you have provided some information anyway. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u212	It is claimed that this citizen, not whom you are asking, and his other brother and sister have been buying votes for elections for about 10 years now. I'm skipping because it's long written here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u213	Dear colleagues of the DPS, I can interrupt Minister Rashkov at the third minute, but I was under the impression that you needed this information and therefore let him speak more. If you don't want to, I'll... [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u214	Look, I'm not gonna listen to this shit from a place like this. Now I'm gonna read you who this is about. Honourable Members of Parliament, the question raised by Nebyi Kabak concerns citizen Yumer Hamza, DPS Regional President, Pazardzhik. So much for Ömer Hamza. And what I've been trying to save is about Ali Teber. It's Ali Teber. And that 70, 80, 000. lv. have been obtained from it. If they want details then. I am trying not to announce here the names of citizens who are close to their party. If you insist, you will listen to what I read. On the same day "July 9th " Hamza has appeared in the District Department of Velingrad, for obtaining written information on the case, something perfectly normal. The collected materials are sent according to the competence of the District Prosecution Office in Pazardzhik, the Territorial Department of Velingrad. What the D.A. has made up its mind, it's not written here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Kabak, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u216	Mr. Minister, as you yourself know, the DPS is the first registered political party in our modern democratic history, which is governed by its statutes. And Mr. Ömer Hamza is a long-standing regional president of DPS Pazardjik, and the only thing he does in the election campaign is to lead our party events in accordance with the law. A moment ago you were quoting some signals that were provided by a person, but you didn't mention whether there was any evidence on these signals at all because we were under the impression that in the next election campaign, each of us could send multiple signals on any subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You don't want to, okay. The next question is Mrs. Kabak's again. You're welcome to develop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, during the election campaign again in July in the village of Krastava, Velingrad municipality, Pazardzhik district, in the home of Mr. Mustafa Eyupov, who is a municipal councillor from the DPS, entered the police with a protocol. My question in this case is: on what legal basis did the police enter his home and what is the presence of sufficient data on the case?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With respect to the doais in political activity, there have also been milkers in the DPS group since the time I have known, who are respectable. I don't have the honor to know this citizen Mrs. Kabak asked me about. However, I will still say my respects to those people who have dedicated themselves to political activity with the idea of working in the interests of society. This is how I understand the positive in a similar political biography. Now specifically. About this person, whom Mrs Kabak asked me about, in the sector of economic crime in the ODMIR Pazardzhik, on 3 July operational information was received, reflected and entered in the appropriate order. The person is really from the village of Krastava, Velingrad municipality, given here and other data on which street and so on. The information was of the category of those to be realised immediately, to be checked immediately and to take action, because according to this information it is intended that............................................................................ to buy votes in this................................................................................................................................................................. I'll keep who she is for now. Therefore, the information could not be verified in any other way in order to prevent such an activity as prevention has always been carried out in the election period in relation to the preparation of a crime under art. Article 167 169d of the Penal Code and on the grounds of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act of this man has drawn up a warning protocol, or he has been warned. Therefore, on Mrs. Kabak's question: on what legal basis was entered his home, the exact answer is that the employees of the Ministry of Interior did not enter this gentleman's home. That's what I can say about this, so I can save some other facts here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? You have the floor, Mrs. Kabak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u222	Mr. Minister, this is another case that represents your actions directed towards the activists of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Eyupov is a municipal councillor, and your attitude towards him was to humiliate him in front of DPS citizens and activists, as well as in front of our voters, without him committing any violation of the law. Here, once again, I stress that we do not blame the employees of the Ministry of Interior because they are still doing what they are ordered to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Kabak. A hole? You have the floor, Minister. Maybe we'll have time for one more question after that to the MP Fatme Ramadan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u224	I'd be happy to answer other questions. Yeah, it's my pleasure, Friday, before the weekend, always. I would just like to add that the police officers, honourable MPs, have been given little more than a year's notice. This seems strange to you, but it's a fact. At another time, there was a politician who said that he was going to smash this guy, smash this guy, hug these guest houses, that they were going to blame next week one-on-one and so on and so forth. I repeat, for more than a year no one is ordering police officers to do what to do. The only one who tells police officers what to do is the law, Mrs. Kabak, the law! They're running the law! With respect to your activists, and not only to your political parties, but to all other political parties, they deserve respect. But when they start to engage in criminal activity, the Ministry of Interior officials will fulfill their duty to verify, possibly collect evidence and bring them to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u225	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Ramadan Hanım, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u226	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Rashkov, a response from you today awaits Mrs. Leyla Kadir, on which on 11 July 2021 in the town of Aytos is drawn up a protocol of the employees of the District Department of Aytos, for speaking Turkish in a loud voice during the election day where she is an advocate. With our intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following question: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to come up with a warning protocol of Mrs. Leyla Kadir? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Ramadan. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u228	Harassment again. This pressure and harassment, constantly being held in the text. Every single question is garnished with such a naked statement. There's no harassment like this. And if there is, it's not here to check if it's there, if it's not there. Here's what I can say specifically, outside the bald claims, political speaking. I will say in particular the following: on 11 July, this is the day of the election, in the District Department of Aytos, through this one, the single number again, 112, has received a signal from a person who has presented himself with his name, that at the school of Vaptsarov. Probably in Aytos, the person you are asking for has performed actions that can be qualified as such against the political rights of the citizens associated with the election process. On this basis, on the basis of this alert, honourable Members, a file has been registered in accordance with the regulatory requirements, No 237R6914, of the same date as described by the Regional Administration. And of course, a warning protocol has been drawn up that is common practice in such cases. The check went on, of course, on the signal. The truth is that no grounds have been established to initiate criminal proceedings, i.e. there was not sufficient data at the end of the investigation and the material was sent immediately to the Aytos prosecution and by a decree registered under heading 8247 of 2021, the monitoring prosecutor refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings. That's the case. Simple and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Ramadan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Rashkov, in the distant 1984 1990 almost every Turk in Bulgaria has been fined at least once for speaking his mother tongue. At the same time, there is not a single fined person for speaking Armenian, Greek, Hebrew and so on in other languages. Mrs. Leyla Kadir is over 60 years old and is fined for speaking her mother tongue was imposed in the distant 1986. Today, Mr. Rashkov, we are 2022. You bring us back to those times with your actions, those times that will remain a black spot in Bulgarian history. While the whole world is being globalised, otherwise speaking, today the Bulgarian democratic government, claiming to be pro-European, does not accept and recognise the language identity of its citizens And in conclusion, Mr. Rashkov, no government, no minister can take away our dignity, language and basic human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u231	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. I'll take a note. Perhaps you will accept my correction because we are talking perhaps about Bulgarian citizens of ethnic Turkish origin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u232	Bulgarian citizens of ethnic Turkish origin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u233	Yeah. Because you said Turkish citizens. Yes, we've cleared the situation. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov. Would you like a coat? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we are convinced everyone here in the Chamber, of course, and the viewers who are watching us carefully, that the stands are not for parliamentary control. The platform is about political propaganda, about turning back the story 40 years ago, with analogies...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u235	We're not returning, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u236	...and in fact I purposely stressed.. here, this is the simple case.. received a signal, went the police officers, did a check, saw that there was no reason to mislead the person under criminal responsibility, reported to the prosecution and ended this case. From this elementary experience, which requires both labor and effort, and so on, they come here, on the stand I don't mind, of course, but you can't turn us back all the time, use the parliamentary microphone to talk to us about Turkish citizens. In Bulgaria, Mrs. Ramadan, we are all Bulgarian citizens. [[DPS lines.]] And what you said means you don't think that way. Correction is correction. Turkish citizens are not in Bulgaria, there are Bulgarian citizens. [[DPS lines: "She's confused. "]] Otherwise we live normally with you, no problem at all, you want to make the problem. So perhaps you will rise in the eyes of your electorate. We all understand that, but don't go on, not that you're making it difficult for me, to waste the parliamentary tribune on, I would say, nonessential things. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-17.u237	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Honourable Members, this concludes today's parliamentary control and this plenary sitting. The next National Assembly meeting will take place on Tuesday, 21 June 2022, on an already announced agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
