ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to the blitzcontrol, there's a request for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have prepared this declaration to express our position that Bulgaria is facing a serious risk of food crisis. The government is completely unaware of this risk. In the so-called package of measures against the current combination of crises prepared by the government, there are no measures to support farmers, those who produce the bread of Bulgaria and the main foods. We are witnessing a targeted lack of attitude towards agriculture. The comments and critical assessment of the National Strategic Plan on the CAP became known last week. This strategic plan does not meet European ambitions and is not in line with the Green deal. There is no synergy of the Strategic Plan with operational programmes. The European Union's criticisms are also serious about the nature of the plan. The plan looks like a list of interventions that are not logically linked, but also some of them overlap. There is no specifics in the analyses linked to the needs of the sector. These remarks raise a lot of questions about how long will it take to obtain European funds for Bulgarian farmers? Is there a clear schedule? When will an information campaign be launched? When will the necessary legislative changes be made for farmers next year? In 405 points, the Commission sets out its observations, recommendations, comments and guidelines. Some of the European Commission's recommendations are as follows: the European Commission wants serious changes in green architecture, organic farming, eco-schemists, digitization, distribution of direct payments. A number of recommendations have been made to increase funds for small and medium-sized farmers. The Commission notes that the Plan does not take into account the regional differences of the country and, in particular, those relating to rural areas. There is no ambition for modernisation of agriculture, whole sectors of tied support are excluded. An extension of intervention is required for animal welfare to certain sectors. Two industrial sectors are excluded from the aid: Bulgaria has not proposed a new reference year for tobacco aid. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we propose to have a clear methodology for determining the reference year for tobacco, clarity and predictability for Bulgarian tobacco producers, including their insurance rights. There are about 100 comments in the plan in the proposed interventions. It gives the impression that some of the interventions are written for certain beneficiaries, which is with sharp criticism from the European Commission. At the moment, our country is the only country in the European Union in which no measures have been adopted yet and no measures are applied against the crisis for the sector.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Examples: in neighbouring Greece, in Italy, in France, in Spain. France's financial package includes 550 million. EUR for farms, namely 400 million for feed aid, 150 million to cover social contributions for farmers affected by the crisis. In Spain, 362 million were allocated. Due to the complete neglect of the agricultural sector by the government, it is very likely that Bulgaria will turn out to be the only country in the European Union that will destroy birth production during a period when the whole world is talking about a food crisis and a food deficit of a first need. The wheat prices have gone up, there are already deals in green at prices from 700 to 760 BGN. a ton of forage wheat, the price of which last year was 300 " 350 BGN." Expectations are the bread wheat prices to be 900 BGN. and up to a ton. This is good for producers because they will cover the cost of the many-priced fertilizers, fuels, preparations. But the main question is: what will happen to the price of feed? None of the government is talking about this right now. The European Commission predicts that the wheat harvest in the European Union will only reach 130 million. e.g. days ago, the UN came up with a forecast that all world stocks of wheat would reach only 10 weeks. Therefore, urgent measures are needed to ensure the necessary quantities for bread and fodder in Bulgaria, to fill the state reserve and measures for socially tolerated prices of bread and feed. In animal agriculture, the situation is critical. According to industry information, 30% of dairy farms are currently bankrupt. The forecasts are that within a month 50% of them will go bankrupt, and milk and milk products are not only a centuries-old traditional industry in Bulgaria, but also essential goods, which will apparently disappear from home production, because according to the sector organizations of livestock farmers this year all rates are reduced only in Bulgaria against the backdrop of the crisis. Because Bulgaria has figuratively missed all trains or so-called financing instruments for livestock, for which other countries in the European Union have benefited. Because commodity prices have jumped in times, and milk is only a few pennies. Animal feeding in recent years has risen from two to three times. At the same time, the most expensive sheep's milk, for this period, has risen its price by only 40 pennies. Many farmers will not be able at these prices, as well as at fuel and electricity prices, to continue to grow their animals and have already planned to hand over to slaughterhouses and end this activity. Farmers insist on receiving a scheme from the Ministry of Agriculture for feed affordable prices, supporting high fuel and electricity prices. At the same time, a protection price for cow's milk and sheep's milk was introduced in France and Spain. In France, Greece has minimal buying-in prices for meat. There are no measures in Bulgaria, the government does not care. This carelessness of the government as a whole is a crime not only for the industry that is dying, but also a crime against the nation, because food security is part of the country's national security. He also died producing fruits and vegetables in Bulgaria, again due to the lack of policy for its conservation and development by the government. This sector has been suffering from systematic underfinancing for years, which has led to the depopulation of most of the rural municipalities. Branch organisations point to serious administrative problems, labour problems, with the realization of their production. To this we now add the problems with rising fertilizers, fuels, preparations, seeds. An adequate and operational system of protection of manufacturers from exceptional circumstances and adverse climatic conditions has not been established. The lack of adequate control of the spending of funds leads to the gray sector ruining the agricultural production produced in Bulgaria. But due to the incorrect policy of the state and the lack of control in practice in the shops are not produced in Bulgaria vegetables, Bulgarian fruits, meat and milk. Urgent measures are needed to support the entire agricultural sector because of the high prices of fuels, electricity, fertilisers, feed, seeds, preparations, measures to attract and maintain labour, to control the grey sector, to provide markets, to safeguard and buy-out prices for milk and meat, to provide compensation systems for exceptional natural climatic conditions. Otherwise, the risk of a food crisis will become a reality as early as autumn. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Mehmedova. Honourable Members, I inform you of the following: First of all, there was a withdrawal of the Bill. On the basis of art. 81 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is withdrawn The draft law on volunteering, signature No 47-254-01-23 of 4 March 2022, with importers Desislava Atanasova, Denitsa Sacheva, Ekaterina Zaharieva and Radomir Cholakov. On 30 May 2022, the National Assembly of the Economic and Social Council issued an opinion on the topic of the National Plan for the introduction of the euro. By letters of the Economic and Social Council, the materials are addressed and provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the European Union Committee and the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the opinion on a National Plan for the introduction of the euro was given to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, an opinion was received from the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2021. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. It is attended by Asen Vassilev Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance, Deputy Prime Minister of Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova, as well as Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov. Are there any questions from The Change Continued? I won't, okay. By GERB-SDS "Denitsa Nikolova," come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question was directed to the Prime Minister, in particular perhaps in the portfolio of Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova. We see that they are conveniently absent from today's parliamentary control, so my question will now refer him to Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev. Dear Mr. Vassilev, it is an undisputed fact that the war in Ukraine, which started on 24 February, shifted sharply from the agenda of all the Member States of the European Union, from overcoming the consequences of the CoVID-19 pandemic to meeting the urgent needs to support refugees from Ukraine. Yesterday Deputy Prime Minister Konstantinova quite quickly, quite briefly explained to us about 148 million. EUR, which our country has as a result of the declared crisis with refugees from Ukraine and has quickly told us about the measures and activities which are planned to be met with the funds provided by the European Union. My question is brief: for these three months we are spending funds that are linked to overcoming all the consequences of the crisis. To what extent are these funds provided by the state budget, the Republican budget of the country, and to what extent do these funds actually come from European funding through the national fund's extra budget account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u6	Ms. Nikolova, thank you for the question. The answer is quite short. For the first month of the refugee crisis, in March, the funds are from the national budget, they are just over 15 million. lv. The funds used for April were approved by the Decree of the Council of Ministers and they come out of the National Fund account, they are 56 million. lv. for the month of April. The amount is expected to be similar for May, as the funds needed in order for Ukrainian citizens to use the health system in Bulgaria and the education system in Bulgaria will also come out of the account of the National Fund of CARE-1 and CARE-2, we are redirecting the other programs, not just the programmes that have been redirected to the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Here you are, Mrs. Nikolova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. In fact, on what you are telling me that for the last two months we have spent money from the non-budget National Fund account, that is, this is European funding. My question is this: in fact, the operational programmes and the means by which they are actually made available by the European Commission have very clear procedural rules. How do we spend these funds, provided that we do not have the approval of the European Commission for the changes in operational programmes, how do we spend these funds in the absence of any publicity, which is an element of verification by the European Commission, which leads to the effect of financial corrections for the country, how do we spend funds without monitoring committees under the programmes, the approval of changes in operational programmes and the potential provision of these operational programmes to the European Commission? In the decisions of the Council of Ministers, we do not have any approved changes to the operational programmes precisely by means of the REACT-EU instrument. So I think that in this direction, I do not know what Mrs. Konstantinova has done as a job and together with the ministers, of course, who manage these funds, but first of all, your figures are not detected in terms of European funding. She's talking about 148 million. Euros, you're talking about 148 million. EUR plus 44 million. EUR and a half coming from the resources of REACT-EU for 2022 In addition, we have a decision by the Council of Ministers since May, which says that we are actually redirecting funds from operational programmes of about 60 million. Euros. In fact, it is not at all clear to the whole public, firstly, what funds we have under the refugee crisis, and secondly, how you actually transparently spend these funds. Even the measures are not clear to us very much. Yesterday, we were not under the impression that there was clarity on exactly what the government was doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u10	Mrs. Nikolova, I don't know exactly what's not clear. It is absolutely clear what the funds are being spent for, they are quite detailed in the decrees of the Council of Ministers, even a hotel by hotels which hotels received what funds they received on the basis of how many Ukrainian citizens were accommodated in them. The funds that are not for hotels are for the border police, for the Ministry of Interior system, for the Agency for Refugees are also detailed. The total funds Bulgaria can use are 148 million. EUR of existing programmes. This is the decision of the European Commission. So far, we have a decree of the Council of Ministers, with which we spend 60 million. lv. of these funds, as the remainder will be spent in the rest of the year. To your question how funds are spent before monitoring committees are held and everything else that is necessary to restructure the programmes, the answer is very simple. If the monitoring committees do not approve the restructuring, these funds will come from the national budget. Since we currently have the right to spend funds under a simplified cost procedure with the European Commission, that is, a refugee for the first 13 weeks on so much money per week, are currently released, precisely in the volume of these funds and this simplified procedure has been paid advance payments from the National Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. We move on to the issues of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, colleagues! Yesterday during the blitzcontrol in the Committee on Budget and Finance we had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance about the methodology for indexing the costs of contracts concluded under the conditions of the Public Works Act. The response we received was conditional, committed to the Minister of Regional Development and Deputy Prime Minister. And since both deputy prime ministers are here, we would like to ask the question again here in the Chamber, because this is a very important issue not only for the Bulgarian business, for the business environment, but also for the performance of public procurements that have begun and cannot be completed, because inflation processes practically make completing these orders unfavorable, in the loss of performers. This will lead, first of all, to the loss of a lot of money both in the budget and in the municipalities; secondly, will lead to an inter-company debt which is not small anyway, and which is very bad for the business climate in the country; thirdly, will lead to a debt of both the municipalities and the municipalities to the fissa, which we have seen in recent years as a very unpleasant phenomenon. It is therefore not insignificant that this methodology should be drawn up at all, we have information that it is prepared, not only to be accepted, but to be secured by budget and not by own resources, as we are preparing to do in the budget update. This is not surplus money, on the contrary, such money will prevent the loss of a much larger mass of money. Therefore, my question to you is about the measures of both Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev and Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov about the measures on this topic to inform us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u14	Thanks for asking, Mr. Tsonev. I will let Mr. Karadjov answer exactly how the legal basis procedure is being moved forward to happen. From the point of view of the collateral, even in the budget at its adoption, of the original version, which we adopted at the end of January, the beginning of February, has a 30% higher capital investment in all municipalities. That means capital investment costs are up 30%, just because municipalities said they needed additional resources to secure the higher value of the projects. The projects, which are under European programmes, are, for the most part, able to be secured within the framework of the funds of these European programmes and the projects that are under the Ministry of Transport, we have assurance from the Ministry of Transport that there is no need for further indices. So there should be financial collateralisation for all these projects provided for by the original budget. In addition, the update does not have to bet these funds as they are laid down in the budget itself at the beginning. In particular, how far has the procedure gone, Mr. Karadjov will ask to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u15	Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsonev! A Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act has been submitted to the National Assembly, allowing the Council of Ministers by its decree to amend the Rules for Implementation of the Public Procurement Act, which will be expressed precisely in this methodology. The methodology has been published for two weeks, I think, on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, discussed by us in branch order with the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, it is also discussed with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria. The methodology is accepted, it envisions six separate sub-sectors, let's call them, in the construction industry high construction, low construction, water construction, road construction, railway construction... sixth, I'm sorry, I can't reproduce it at the moment, but in each of these areas there is a specific rate of growth in the years back, as inflation will be offset with a reverse date, as you know, and the only point of non-dating between industry and government is about the size of the ceiling to which it can be indexed. Our proposal is to be 15%, in the proposal of NSOR and the Construction Chamber is 30%. Where and how we will meet is a matter of talks that are yet to take place between the first and second reading of the Law, because only after the entry into force of the Act will this amendment of the Law enter into a very urgent order, literally next Wednesday, and this methodology for a decree of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. The line, Mr. Tsonev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, we have information on this subject, but it was good to hear it interested. My line is in two directions to both the 30 percent, Mr. Finance Minister, an increase in capital expenditure is, above all, an increase in capital expenditure on projects that will begin this year, and projects that are being completed this year but have started. However, at the discretion of the mayors, and at our discretion, it is necessary to update this part, which was completed last year, and it is not good to use the money for this year's payments for last year's payments for last year's payments. Therefore, it is not bad to provide in the update, especially for the contracting entities of such public contracts, to do research, to take the relevant information and to provide where there is an additional payment for a past period, of course, payments which have been proven to be inflationaryly increased, to do so. Because there is no way for that to happen with this year's money to be made payments for past periods, unless some mayor or contracting entity has decided to violate the State Budget Act, this is the first. And the second would be good with the Regional Ministry indeed, apart from branch organizations and with municipalities, to have this conversation, because they are a very serious contracting entity of such public procurements and actually there reflects the hardest, because municipal budgets, you know, are quite limited, especially in the capital part. Then they'll come back to you, Mr. Minister of Finance, you'll reschedule obligations, we'll make plans and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u20	Thanks for the extra question. Mr. Tsonev, just one clarification. The methodology will work for projects that have either not started or are in the process of implementing the part that has not been implemented. If the project is already implemented and adopted by the municipality, then there will be no escalation, as the work is done in an old period at old prices, so the methodology does not foresee. Whether it is paid or not paid, if the project is completed, it should not be paid, and even if it is partially implemented, only the methodology will apply to the unfulfilled part. So there shouldn't be any old payments that need indexing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. A question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people a question? I won't. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? I don't see a question either. From rebirth? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u22	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Vassilev, as the deputy prime minister in charge of the sector................................................................................................... At the end of the month, a planned renovation of one of the blocks, carried out by companies, mainly with the participation of NPP employees, Kozloduy. Since the time limits set for the repair and the maximum speed to put the block into service are pressing everyone, it is likely that it has reached the point that, upon acceptance of the site, all the necessary tests have not been performed before starting the facilities, which leads to a fire, a very heavy fire occurs after oil spilling several hundred liters of oil leaking out of the main circulator pump, pump number 3. There's a fire coming up, and that's where the big problems start. Since this is in one of the most neural centers in our nuclear power plant and the problems start, because when the fire department arrives, it turns out that the hoses with which to bind and start extinguishing with the adjacent extinguishing system do not match.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u23	Mr. Ganev, I'm sorry to interrupt, but this is not a matter of government's common policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u24	It's common policy, I'll get there, it's a back story of what I have to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u25	All right, come on in. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u26	When this thing happens, you can't put out the fire in any other way, you start running portable fire extinguishers for several hours, over 200 dust extinguishers. The fire was put out after all, and this whole thing prevented a really serious accident. Asking specifically to you as a government: Are the Bulgarian services informed in the case of AYAR, and respectively from here on, as we as a country with nuclear energy, are international associations informed and all these institutions from which an in-depth analysis of this whole thing needs to be done? Two days after the plant was launched, an official announcement came out from our nuclear power plant that the planning repairs had been completed and that everything was fine. So I say again: have all the institutions been informed about this incident, and has an in-depth analysis been made of why and how this incident occurred?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. It seems to me that the question is from Minister Alexander Nikolov's portfolio, but, Mr. Vassilev, if you have the chance to say something.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u28	Mr. Ganev, first of all, my portfolio as Deputy Prime Minister is........................................ is.......................................................... Mr. Nikolov should answer the question. As far as the State Nuclear Regulatory Agency is concerned with me as Deputy Prime Minister, I have not received any such report that something has happened, and therefore I suppose it most likely has not happened, or at least a report has not come to me, because if there is such a serious incident, this should be reported. I'll check it out and eventually I can answer you later, but I'm still saying, provided the Nuclear Regulatory Agency didn't alert the government, I don't think there was anything serious that needs to be reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Will there be a line, Mr. Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u30	Mr. Vassilev, thank you for your answer. That's why we asked, and that's why we expected you to answer, because it was certain that this thing was most likely hidden and didn't reach you. [[(Strong noise and lines ……]] And that's why we'd be happy to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u31	Mr. Ganev, don't...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u32	...this information should be officially announced because we see some pretty sharp lines here, but such an incident has occurred and has not been reported. [[Noise and lines.]] That's why he's got the paperwork.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u33	All right, Mr. Ganev. There may or may not be, but within this blitzcontrol, there's no way to get to the bottom of it further. [[(Reply from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva:]] Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As much as I hate it, I'm going to ask for a procedure in the way of conduct, because there is no other way in which I can draw attention to the House for what is happening right now. Obviously you have no way of knowing if the speaker of this tribune speaks true things, whether he is telling lies, whether he is speaking frank nonsense, but in this case, there is a need to take measures with such a kind of speech, because what Mr. Ganev has done right now is bordering on a crime. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] You can't come out so lightly and talk about accidents at the nuclear power plant, when you haven't even seen what a major circulatory pump is at the nuclear power plant, Mr. Ganev! You have no idea what you're talking about! Take your hands off the NPP Kozloduy and don't do your personal PR with that shit! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "INN" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. We're moving on to round two questions. We're continuing the Change? No question. From GERB-SDS? Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, not to you, as a portfolio of the sector....................................................................................... Dear Mrs. Ninova, on 31 May a devastating hailstorm fell in the area of Sadovo, Plovdivsko, the reason that was announced is the non-fire of rockets that were provided. Already in the framework of the budget debate, we supported the ongoing anti-city protection policy in Bulgaria. Missiles are secured, have not been launched for, I think, more than 15 minutes by information that came out in the media, and nearly 10,000. deca arable areas are practically completely destroyed. Dear Mrs. Ninova, my question to you is rather principled. Is there an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport with regard to prioritization in such emerging assumptions? The answer to this question is extremely important, therefore, for the farmer, when he starts working in a particular territory, to be aware of what risk he is taking. This is certainly important information in terms of risk and insurance insurance. My second question to you is: in similar assumptions do you have a concept of a new type of state support that will compensate farmers in these cases, because at the present time, both last year and last year, the State support scheme applied in completely failed areas of such climatic events has been developed, made with estimates of a completely different mechanism?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Taneva, every time I come here, you're expanding my powers and portfolios more and more. Don't be so jealous you'll start with your colleagues. But now I'm serious. First of all, I am not a deputy prime minister with a portfolio of....................... and Secondly, in the Ministry of Economy and Industry we do not deal with a strategy in terms of agriculture, transport, rockets, hails and so on. I would like to give you a competent and precise answer, but since this is not in my power, I will not do it. What I will offer you, if you will also accept, now I will call Minister Ivan Ivanov, and if you accept, in the regular control that is to come, you will listen to him on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u40	Dear Mrs. Ninova, believe me, farmers, especially in this area, expect with great interest the answer to this question. Last year, unrealistic expectations were created again in the same hypothesis. In the course of the budget debate last year, I do not know if it was already with you as a regular government, but again I had a debate with Mr. Asen Vassilev about the anti-urban protection, it was continued. But then in the communication of the office was created an expectation that was not realized. Now it's the same thing. The current State aid, in practice its implementation as a mechanism, cannot satisfy what has happened now. And since you are here, however, portfolio managers of individual sectors as deputy prime ministers, you should have a clear concept of this. But if you do not have at the moment, yes, the coming of Mr. Ivanov and giving clear messages about this case would be positive for farmers who are currently damaged and those who work in the field in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u41	Thank you. Colleagues, let us respect the requirement that questions are asked here on the general policy of the government and that we take into account the portfolios of the people who are in the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since an attempt was made just now by the Ataka to cause panic... From rebirth. [[Radio and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u43	Okay. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u44	From rebirth to panic among the Bulgarian people, I just want it to be clear, as I contacted the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and quite normally not all were informed because there was smoke in connection with oiling thermal insulation. There was no interruption at all, there was no such big incident as was said to have occurred. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] But I insist, Mr. Chairman, that we cease this practice and impose the harshest possible punishment for causing panic in society, because these people use the lie and fear to draw political dividends. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] Now is the time for such people to be really severely punished, not to use this tribune to cause panic and show what kind of patriots they are. On the contrary, these are people who are playing with the fear of citizens, and this should not be allowed in the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You're right, but I'm not the one punishing for causing panic, otherwise you're absolutely right. Peter Petrov wants a procedure. [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] Punish him for what? [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "It has been said that there is a nuclear accident. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will address you in the manner of conduct. I'm going to ask you to apply the same arsin to the speakers. In some cases, when you make a remark to Members of the National Revival that they call a certain formation "Democratic Bulgaria," let's say, you are making a remark. And in other cases, when another formation from the ruling coalition calls us otherwise, somehow I don't see the same archin and I don't accept excuses from second, third place or...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u47	Mr. Stoinev is confused...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u48	...from the toilet, or from the chair, Mr. Chairman. So I would simply ask you to apply the same archin to the MPs precisely to maintain a good level of parliamentaryism. Of course, I'm not going to get into the actual argument that my colleague was talking about...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u50	...but I will ask you, when you give the floor to us as MPs, to bear in mind both you and the representatives of the Council of Ministers that we have not come from this tribune to speak nonsense, lies or nonsense. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I will also ask you, Mr. Chairman, and the members of the Council of Ministers, to pay attention to what we speak as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u51	Got it. Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Stoinev got confused, I think, at first and quickly corrected. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Isn't that right? That's exactly what happened. It was a lapsus. Here you go, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. Chairman, please take an attitude regarding what Mr. Stoinev proposed and about the honest lies they tell from rebirth. I personally attended the release of the 6th block on the 28th of last month on Saturday. The block was put into operation according to the plan that was made. So this speculation that you have made at the moment in plenary is a frank lie. Mr. Chairman, please take a look at these cases. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. I think Mrs. Vassileva and Mr. Stoinev very well distracted all malicious rumors. Mr. Georgiev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, dear colleagues! Apparently, from now on, we should call them the Cuckoos.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u55	No...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u56	You remember what happened years ago with that kind of panic again? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u57	We remember, Mr. Georgiev, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u58	Dear colleagues of ARGUING, as examples of your incredibly cynical behavior should be given, I remind you, when you organized the first rally here, to the National Assembly, in connection with the cavity, you urged the people outside to enter the hall and carry us out with their feet. Mr. Ganev, that was your line. And I think that if insolence and cynicism had wings, you would be hovering in this room all the time. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u59	Fine, fine, you'll take the procedure. Of course you will, there is no one to deny you the right to a procedure. But now, to be honest, you brought this on yourself. [[Radio, laughter.]] There's nothing more to comment on. I mean, with such speeches, there was no way that the MPs would not take the attitude. I suggest that we stop with this topic and continue with the blitzcontrol. Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u60	My procedure is to you, in the manner of conduct. You're not normally a person who can be accused of bias, I've always said that, now I'm gonna say it again. Maybe you should have made a remark earlier about what the pre-speaker said. I'll be very brief. All that has been said is very easy to prove. These emotional statements here are simply unnecessary. You'll see. That's why we asked the Deputy Prime Minister. He correctly said he'd check it out. Once it's checked out, you'll see if it's true, isn't it? That will become clear next week. It is absolutely unnecessary to comment at the moment and enter such unpleasant qualifications and all other things. The truth can never be hidden, and it always comes out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u61	Thank you. So I thank Mr. Stoynov for the truth that revealed her from the stands in time. [[Heckling]] Oh, I apologize, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are for the duvet, I even forgot to go to Desislava Taneva. Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u62	Yeah, the passions prevented me from doing the backdrop. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, hailing and killing people's crops is an extremely serious issue and is very hard to deal with by farmers. Mr. Chairman, I've contacted the Minister of Agriculture. He's on his way. Please allow him to speak to the Parliament under that Rule of Procedure where a minister can at any time take the floor and give information to the MPs. Mr. Ivanov is coming and if you accept this, he will give concrete and clear answers about what will happen from now on in support of the families who have suffered. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova, including this activity. Does the DPS have a second question? Mr. Bayram, come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question concerns public sector wage. During the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria a few months ago, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we had made a proposal for an increase in the salaries of employees in municipalities and in the state administration, it was not accepted by you. Just a little bit of data. The average salary is currently supposed to the end of the first quarter, BGN 1668., net "1294 BGN," or compared to March last year the increase was 11.2%. The annual inflation rate for March was 12.4%, in April inflation was 14.4%. We see inflation ahead of income increases in our country. The increase in salaries in the private sector at the end of the first quarter is 11.6%, and in the public sector it is 1.8%. Do you not think that this creates prerequisites and risks the human resource that works in the public sector can be redirected and searched for its livelihood in the private sector and abroad? Do you consider when adopting the update an increase in public wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u65	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev. I'm just reminding you that blitzcontrol cannot require specific numerical data. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u66	Thanks for asking, Mr. Bayram. As we said during the adoption of the budget, you know that there are a little less than 300 million allocated there. BGN, which can be used to increase the remuneration of administrations, which carry out the relevant structural reforms and optimization of the processes, especially as regards digitalization, use of computer systems for a large part of the work and, frankly, closure of units that were created 20 years ago, with a lack of necessity. There are currently several systems that have started this optimization and that will be able to benefit from this fund. This is the system of defence, the system of the Ministry of Interior, four or five ministries plus the Council of Ministers, which have also begun to make serious optimizations and the rules will be published for public discussion. There are ministries that have not made this optimization in them, and therefore there will be no increase in pay until it is completed with the optimization of the respective administrations and processes in them. At the moment, we do not foresee additional funds. Just to say that in systems where there is optimization and which can benefit from these funds, we are talking about an average increase in pay of the order between 15% and 20%, so it is ahead of inflation. Systems which, for one reason or another, decide not to optimize will therefore not receive additional remuneration beyond what is provided for in the Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Bayram, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u68	We knew what your answer would be. Just to remind you, you are a financier that inflation will not wait for optimism. And at the moment this directly reflects on all employees in the public sector. They're listening to us right now. Their question is mainly to us, probably to you, but you don't listen much. The main question is: will there be an update of their wages? Even in the public administration, there is a question mark on the question mark, which is sent by you to all the executive officers, a reference you want, are you thinking of changing the model of providing civil servants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u69	Thanks for the line, Mr. Bayram. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u70	Thanks for the extra question, Mr. Bayram. Perhaps for the first question I forgot the health and education systems, which also saw a significant increase in wages. As regards whether a certain administration, chief, secondary officers will receive an increase, this depends entirely on the management of the relevant senior authorising officer. If this leadership conducts the necessary, again I said, optimizations and management of processes that are better, firstly, all that remains, it remains in the ministry, the budget is not reduced. Secondly, additional funds can be used from this fund, which is in the budget. 1, t. Five, if I'm not mistaken. As regards whether a change is intended to be made in the way the civil servants' contributions are paid, the update does not provide for such a change. In the budget for next year, we, as the Ministry of Finance, would suggest that such a change be made so that civil servants are provided in the same way as private sector employees, which, I would like to point out, did not result in a reduction in their income. That is to say, the change to be made in such a way as to preserve the income of these employees is what they receive, but finally the civil servants and employees of the companies are equal in terms of their insurance and the taxes they pay, which I think would be absolutely fair, but requires a longer period of preparation time, recalculation, conversations with the social partners. One such model, of course, must be voted by the National Assembly, cannot be imposed by the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Gutsanov for a question from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wanted to comment on this topic yesterday before the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kalina Konstantinova, but the debate went into another light and phase with posters, calls, signs. That is why today I decided to continue this topic, and I believe that these are basic value systems not only of the left-wing people in Bulgaria, such as solidarity, justice, freedom. My specific question is this: the government is undoubtedly dealing successfully with the refugee crisis. I will not compare what was before in previous ones, what it is now, because I do not think that this is the way to make comparisons. Undoubtedly, the cabinet was able to give a hand to Ukrainian refugees and make their endlessly hard life as good as possible at what is happening to them. But on the other hand, it is starting to come to this, in my opinion, that our workers and employees and Bulgarian citizens do not get what is due to them, including in collective agreements. And specifically to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vassilev. A large part of the bases began to be occupied by Ukrainian refugees. Only BDZ employs 20,000 workers. There are employees at the Department of Defense. There are workers and employees in each of these sectors who are waiting for their rest, and so it will be that there will be nowhere to go and how to rest them and their families. So my question is: if the situation remains, it will most likely be this way, can it be foreseen in the budget update funds for these Bulgarian families and Bulgarian workers and employees who also need their holiday? They and their children? I think that this is fair, and this is how we should approach it, and I really call on you to consider this topic over the next few days and next week, when the budget update comes into the room, to bear in mind what I am commenting on right now. After all, the Ukrainian refugees should not suffer both Bulgarian workers, employees and Bulgarian citizens. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u74	Thanks for asking. As you know, what is foreseen is BGN 15. to a refugee to be paid to the stations so that the stations can take over those refugees accordingly. So the stations will make revenue on this line. From then on, the relevant head of the department on which the station is located may decide how to compensate the employees in this office.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Mr. Gutsanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Yes, I understand about the stations and I fully agree with the Deputy Prime Minister, but here the big question is also about the workers and employees themselves. I therefore call once again, when the budget is being made, to consider this opportunity so that it does not happen that Bulgarian workers suffer from what is happening, with all due respect to what the cabinet has done. Undoubtedly, it was infinitely successful.. there are no two opinions on the matter, but it should not be one at the expense of the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u77	Thank you. He doesn't have an ass. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for a question from "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, I do not want my question to be interpreted as panicking to the residents of Northwestern Bulgaria. During the last month there were statements from representatives of GERB on a visit to Vidin that for the construction of the highway from Vidin to Botevgrad were set aside in the account of API billion and a half leva, which during the service government were spent, and therefore this time cannot continue. A statement made by Mr. Boyko Borisov somewhere along the route of this road. My question is to the finance minister. Have such funds been allocated, have they been spent during the caretaker government and the lack of funds from the state caused the construction of this road not to continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u79	Mr. Vassilev or Mr. Karadjov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u80	Thanks for asking. The answer is quite simple. A bill set aside for Vidin "Botevgrad" does not exist. There is an account for the motorway of Hemus, in which 490 million are allocated. BGN, of which 470 million lv. used. But there is no account for Vidin Botevgrad, there are no funds allocated, and therefore the rest of the issue is not based on factology. What we are currently working at the Regional Ministry is to find ways to finance these sections, because for them there is no earmarked funds and there has never been.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u81	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. A line, Mr. Atanasov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u82	Can I understand, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that the reason is in the state to stop construction, and search for ways to find financial resources to continue the two sections from Vidin to Ruzhentsi, and not in the construction companies to be the reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u83	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u84	The answer is not single. There is a section that is assigned under the Public Procurement Act, where the problem lies with the company. There is a section.. I think that one or two, which are at stake in the inhouse, where the problem is actually purely legal, that this section is made with incorrect award and must be resolved, as the TRPs have passed through parliament, must be solved through parliament in order to unlock the legal case in order to be able to continue payment to these companies. So there is a section where the company does not comply with its arrangements, where the award is done in the right way through the Public Procurement Act. I think there are two or three sections, Mr. Karadjov can give you, I suppose, more detailed information, where the award has been made in house, which is therefore contrary to legislation and must be settled by a decision of parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u85	Thank you. For further information, Mr. Karadjov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I understand your concern for this extremely important, speedy road the highway between Vidin and Botevgrad, which will be connected with the highway of Hemus and from there to Sofia or the rest of Bulgaria. There are indeed several departments that are under the Public Procurement Act. On them, the main problem that emerges are administrative and bureaucratic procedures from which there is no escape because they are a requirement of the Law. For example, the first section of Vidin in the direction of Montana is a section that awaits two decisions of the Municipality in Vidin because of a change in the levels of the road, i.e. at the level at which the road will be set, at the request of the Municipality itself. Accordingly, we have issued an act to stop the construction and the company is not in real delay. Another point is that in the talks between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the contractor company, we know that mainly because of the rise in the prices of construction materials, the company is having difficulties, as the contract is concluded without any advance. This is not an inhouse contracts with 35% advance, but with zero advance and the first payment is due only when everything is built on the Act 15 before it is painted, so to speak, and the boards are placed. It is normal in this situation to have such difficulty, but there is no formal reason for delay, because the Municipality has not yet issued the relevant changes in the PSU. In the rest of the parts where we have an inhouse award, there is indeed some kind of approach found, let's say, is not yet a specific option to solve the inhouse award problem at all. He will surely pass through the National Assembly in an open procedure and clear when we are naturally ready, and that will be very soon. The next section, which is implemented by In House. By the way, is with great speed. It will end almost 90% within this year. It depends on an archaeological find and the way we will be able to get past it, if the Ministry of Culture, in this case NIKN, gives us permission to go partly into the hill on which this find is located, we will end up in November and the de facto section will be ready by one year. Yesterday I had a meeting with the Chamber of Road Construction companies, with which we agreed that within a month we will unravel the case with In House and pay back the accumulated debts, which are by date about 130 million and in "Hemus" and in the road Vidin Botevgrad. In this sense, the expected on our part and with the budget update at the same time, in July to make payment of the dues, which is why at the end of this conversation all companies from the builders of the building "Hemus" and the builders of Vidin.Botevgrad made a commitment to me that from today they restore the speed of work and that there will be no delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Is there a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? I won't. Is there a second question from rebirth? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u88	Mr. Vassilev, a while ago you made a statement in which you officially announced that the government will proceed to raise the fees for providing minerals in Bulgaria. My question has already been more than six months since it is managed with this government, will these changes be updated soon? What has kept you from discussing it at your coalition council so far, that this thing should be done? Is there a real chance to be done, as it is clear to everyone that in the coalition you have different views on a series of questions. Do not turn out that only to the media is your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u89	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u90	Thanks for asking, Mr. Ganev. The answer is still quite simple. The changes have been proposed. They were made in the Decree for the concession of underground riches. The fees have been raised between four and five times in this regulation, which is the government's proposal, and public discussion is under way. When the public discussion is over, the Ordinance will be adopted by the Council of Ministers and the concession fees will be lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u91	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. A line from Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u92	Mr. Vassilev, I didn't expect anything different from what you said. After all, you made this statement. Here the important moment will So I asked what your coalition partners think, because there are many important topics of the various parties in your coalition that are not approved by your other...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u93	And it's not a question of blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u94	So what I asked you specifically, you didn't answer my question. My explanatory question to you is: what you think and have prepared, if it enters into force, will it affect the current contracts or future contracts that will be concluded for concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u95	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u96	Thanks for the supplementary question. Part of my answer was past tense. The analysis is done, the Ministry of Energy has released! In the past, the regulation on new concession fees is being discussed in public. The 30-day period of public consultation is underway. When the period is over, the ordinance will be adopted by the Council of Ministers. So far, none of the coalition partners have expressed concerns about the regulation, but on the contrary, they support. As to whether existing contracts can be considered, the change in the regulation allows this to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. We've run out of blitz-control questions. Mr. Ivanov, please come in and thank you for coming on such short notice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u98	Of course, always, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see that the interest in the Agency for the Fight against hails and its activities is quite high. I will allow myself here your request to give, first, a factology, and then to make a few comments on the subject of the fallen hailstorm in Sadovo. Regional Directorate for the Fight against hails in Popovitsa from the composition of the Executive Agency "Fight against hails" protects the territory of 2244 sq. km. In its defence are located large cities with adjacent territories such as the village of Trud, part of Plovdiv, Asenovgrad, Sadovo, Parvomay, Chirpan, Dimitrovgrad, Rakovski and Brezovo. The chronology of the activities in the work of the Regional Directorate for the Fight against hails in Popovitsa on the afternoon of 31 May 2022 during the processing of the hail clouds by hours and minutes is as follows: At 12.44 p.m. of the polygon they ask for and receive permission for anti-city activity, monitor the development of the process on radar, and the observed cells are 5 pieces and at 2:31 p.m. they launch the first missile. A total of 38 missiles were fired on these 5 cells until the ban was received. At 4:13 P.M., they received a warning from the Airspace Coordination Centre about an imminent ban on shooting. At this point on the radar, the separation of one of five cells and the origin of the sixth city cell, daughter of the fifth cell, is observed. At 4:15 p.m., they're officially receiving an order to ban activity. This command is immediately reduced to all 29 rocket sites and they perform the command by thinning the launchers, putting them in metal crates, as this is done to reduce the risk of unintended launch of missiles during the ban due to lightning and static electricity, and reporting the execution of the command. I would like to stress here that the Centre for the Coordination of Airspace Use is not part of the Ministry of Agriculture, but is a coordinating body in the composition of the Ministry of Transport. In this regard, before I came to my office, there was a working meeting between the Head of the Unit of the Council of Ministers for the investigation of air crashes, the Director of the Executive Agency, and I was confident that on 13 June there will be another meeting with all responsible institutions to clear certain ambiguities with regard to the work of RAT and this centre, and the imposition of bans regarding the launch of missiles. Because they strictly respect that prohibition. We're talking here about a passenger plane that has been reported to fly and, accordingly, the risk of being taken away from human life, I think it's more serious than destroying agricultural production, given the occurrence of such a clear ban. That's our legislation. So the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture are not responsible for the imposition of a ban and have stopped accordingly. I'm moving on. During the ban, it is observed that the five cells dissipate, i.e. they reduce their strength due to their impact and at the same time the 16th cell appeared at 16.13 p.m. began to act as it separated from the heel and was not treated because of the ban. At 16.31 hours, the Airspace Use Coordination Centre shall receive a command to remove and resolve the operation. Three minutes later, the first missile fired at cell six, with a total of 15 missiles fired at it by 16.52. After the first missiles in about 2 minutes, dissipation of the cell is observed, but it is not enough due to about 10 minutes of shooting, which is fatal. At 16.42 p.m., a 7th cell entered the range from the west and started shooting at it as a total of 10 missiles were fired at it and it also dissipated. The last shooting from the polygon was carried out at 5:01 p.m. The first data of the fallen hails from the polygons are collected from the rocket sites. In addition to the data of a heavy hail from the sixth cell in the area of Sadovo, the data for a very heavy rain is more than 22 liters per square mile. m, and a rare city of pea size for about 3 minutes have been reported by missile sites in Shishmantsi and Manole. The total area of the seven treated city cells is 460 129 decares and only the sixth is 153 thousand. Dka, like 109 thousand. It is processed after the ban. Unfortunately, 34,600 acres remained raw because of the ban and there, respectively, this hailstorm that destroyed the plantations fell. Subsequently, as a result of my order, on 1 June 2022 in Sadovo with Mr. Georgi Dinev, Deputy Executive Director of the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They establish that according to preliminary data from farmers, the affected areas are about 10 000. Deca, mainly affected crops are zucchini, tomatoes, pepper, cabbage, turnips, melons, potatoes, sunflowers, corn, chickpeas, wheat, wheat, permanent crops and others. Immediately there is immediate contact with the employees of the Municipal Agriculture Service Sadovo, and the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development.Plovdiv, together with the mayors of the settlements and farmers to specify the situation and to inform farmers of the order for submission of applications for the view of failed areas due to adverse climatic events. A meeting was held in the respective settlement with the farmers and employees of the Ministry both from the State Fund of Agriculture and from the district offices and from the municipal agriculture services and farmers. Unfortunately, I would like to call on farmers here from the stands not to engage in the imposition of personal and party interests in order for them to suffer, to take advantage of the opportunity given to them by the State, namely to submit their applications to the municipal agriculture services within the 7-day period in order to be able to process these applications, to review all fallen areas, to assess the degree of failure and the state to be able to pay these benefits. This year, the state budget provides for 5 million. lv. for compensation to farmers as a result of adverse climatic conditions. We processed all the activities last year. I'll open a clamp. You know, for the first time in Rakovski, I don't know why, individually opening the de minimis program to be compensated only...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u99	They're not compensated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u100	They're paid for, sir! They're paid for! On May 20th, they filed their last applications, they were paid today. You know what I mean? Ten days. Don't twist! I have information. You don't know any better than I do! Until May 20th! That's under 100%. For under 100%! Because this year, for the first time! We made the compromise to pay under 100% of the failed areas with a decision of the Board of State Fund. It's under 100%! So far, it's never been made to pay under 100% damaged areas. This year on May 20th, the reception ended. Today, June 3, 2022, everything is paid for. Everything! I have the assurance of the Director of the State Fund that today the accounts of farmers have been certified. Unfortunately, the Executive Agency has been used over the years, if I am not mistaken, to carry, including football players, by the favorite team of the chairman of the Political Party GERB, but we have been able to reduce the price paid to a minimum this year with joint efforts of the entire team of the Ministry. At the moment, the country is covered from everywhere, except for areas where there are no rocket sites built. This is the region of Kyustendil and Smolyan, but there are various reasons why these sites cannot be built. North, Northeast and Central Bulgaria are covered by the so-called aircraft method. We made sure that the amount paid in past years was lower this year. Turns out this thing could happen. To date, the state has spent 13,5 million. lv. covering the territory of the country to combat hails. Separately, we call on farmers to insure their production, because the state covers 65% of the amounts they pay insurance in various variations each year That means we're taking the huge risk. Unfortunately, I say again, for personal reasons, most probably because it surprises me how the mayor of Sadovo...... insists and repels these people to go and submit their applications to be compensated. Why, I ask? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Why is he doing this? If he didn't understand, tell him that the local elections are next year, it's not this year, it's next year, and let someone's personal ambitions not to suffer people, farmers, and not to force them to ask for the same event to receive twice money, because it's like a car that's been in a car accident, because it's someone else's fault to take money from whoever caused the damage and take money from the insurance company. You know what that means? Because he is pushing them to do this thing, and it is contrary to Regulation 2016/7 of the European Union, and if any minister of the Ministry allows it, he will have to go to the prosecutor. There is no way, it is not normal for a representative of the local authorities to urge farmers to commit unlawful acts. The country has done everything it needs and, at the time they submit these applications for assistance, to investigate the areas, these farmers will be compensated. You know what the order is, there are technological maps, actual reimbursements are made up to 80% of them for these failed areas, we already have practice. This year, I stress, for the first time, we paid below 100%. If there's less than 100%, we'll take that into account. These people won't stay! For the first time, the state is taking such care of farmers and I cannot agree here with the statement: in unison GERB and DPS, they come out here, out of the stands, in order and claim that the state did not care for farmers. I apologize, ladies and gentlemen, but for the first time this year, the state has spent 143.5 million so far extra from the state budget to cover the extraordinary costs in relation to the farmers' crisis. Unprecedented! In the update of the budget we have also foreseen a very serious volume and the claims here, from the stand, of some MPs that the state does not care, are not true. We work wonderfully with the Ministry of Finance and we have made our estimates and the coalition council this thing has been discussed. The fact that it has not been taken as an anti-crisis measure is not the regular measure that we believe must be carried out and farmers will be compensated because we know that this thing will contribute to overcoming the food crisis that is shaking around the world. We are one of the countries that has taken measures in a timely manner, and we do not currently have an atrocious price hike, which is what is happening in other countries, thanks to this investment -- 143.5 million so far, which will be paid in the coming days, beyond everything else. You know, the Ministry's budget this year was up 150 million. lv. There's no such thing. I apologize, the criticisms that you do not know where you got these remarks from, once again I say it, because they are service information, unfortunately, are criticisms to you, ladies and gentlemen of GERB: for what you have created. And now we have to fix it... [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] And it's to the detriment of farmers. The European Commission is saying what we have done because I am reading the comments and the letter from Commissioner Vojcehovski, who said: It is good that in two months we were able to partially repair these damages. In the next three months we have a commitment this plan to be the perfect plan, which will be implemented in Bulgaria for agriculture and we will do it. Be assured: Bulgarian farmers will not be left without money because for the first time the state, thanks to our 2 months work, the Council of Ministers approved 60% national co-financing and this is assessed by the European Commission. If there are any notes, it is thanks to the work and creativity which you gentlemen of GERB have put on, and partly the office with its fantasies, which they have put into this strategic plan and we had to fix it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Now we're going to move on to taking attitude from the groups. Procedure wants Mr. Gadget. [[Mladen Shishkov's reply.]] Okay. [[Heckling]] Why shouldn't it be relevant? However, this is also not an item on the agenda. There is a relation to art................................................................................ 59, para. 2 of the Who's gonna take an attitude from you? Mrs. Taneva, Mr. Gazhev wants procedure before then and Mr. Shishkov wants procedure. Does that make three relationships?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u102	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u103	Okay. Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u104	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u105	Mr. Gajev wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. When people are involved, or rather criticized in this Chamber, who cannot defend themselves, for example, as the mayor of Sadovo Municipality, it was said almost that he was preparing for his political campaign for the next local elections, we still want to note that he as a person who is not present and cannot defend his name, it is nice to clarify that he is the mayor of BSP a third term. And if the mayor of BSP stops farmers from receiving support from the Minister of BSP, Mrs. Nino, you may be a mediator on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. And Mr. Shishkov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is with you. Since there were indeed many untruths admitted from this tribune, even though spoken by a minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u109	I can't take any part in this, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u110	I'll be the one to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u111	No, no. You can't take it. Mrs. Taneva can take an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u112	Okay. Not an attitude, but just one clarification, as it is about my native municipality. In that style...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u113	Don't do this now. Mrs. Taneva will do it in her attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u114	I'm just gonna say one word. Allow me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u115	One word, not 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u116	Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u117	Mr. Shishkov, you can't do this. Listen...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u118	...co-workers who received compensation...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u119	Mr. Shishkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u120	...by de minimis they took 50 grand. lv. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u121	Okay. That, Mrs. Taneva, I'm sure she'll say in her attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u122	...and they've cost $2 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u123	Mr. Shishkov, I'll take your word for it! I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u124	That's what you did... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u125	Will the Parliamentary Group be relevant? I won't. Mrs. Taneva, about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You weren't here. That also justifies the distortion in everything you've answered. In my question to Mrs. Ninova, I never claimed that the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails had not made a timely decision on hail. On the contrary, both the Ministry and the Agency have done their job. My thesis was that the current agreement on how to respond to such situations is to the detriment of farmers, and not that someone has not done their job operationally, and that must be clear to farmers. Or in this group, which will gather on 13 June, you must change priorities, and changing those priorities is not the last and everything before they matter. This, in any event, must be accompanied by an exceptionally new State aid mechanism to compensate for the costs of the parties concerned.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The current State aid granted and granted long ago has been notified and made under another logical mechanism, and it cannot satisfy the owners because disaster compensatory aid has been made under a mechanism to meet some of the costs that may have been considered seven-eight years ago. Here we are talking about another hypothesis: when no protection can be held at all. Don't get any bigger than Matrosov on the ambrazor. In addition, the Strategic Plan has been fundamentally changed by the two working governments. In your thesis that you have at least changed, you may be right. It cannot, when Bulgaria was the initiator of State aid and led the entire Eastern Block for national transitional aid and protected them, Bulgaria now does not file dates for both livestock and tobacco. It's simple stuff.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Is Alyzan Yahova going to take an attitude on behalf of the DPS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Minister, I take note of your speech with one question. It has not become clear what the amount of compensation will be for the fallen areas, and is it that in this year there is a serious increase in costs, the production costs of farmers? It is precisely because the necessary information is missing that we repeatedly ask questions from the platform and from the parliamentary Committee on Agriculture about the policy of financial support for farmers in these extremely complex conditions of post-covid crisis, military action and food crisis. On 24 March, the European Commission set out a package of measures to compensate farmers from across the Community, as well as to take action for the European Union's food security. To this day, we have no clarity as to what measures the government provides and what financial resources it provides for the compensation of Bulgarian farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Yahova. Will the BSP for Bulgaria be relevant? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u130	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! I respect what the minister said, I will not do, because he spent 15 minutes explaining what had happened, and what should be done and what has not been done over the years, but I am surprised when GERB ministers, the former GERB minister, stand on this stand and have a say, I will not say a word, the power to criticize and ask questions. What have you done to prioritize the damage..................................................................................................... What have you done for 12 years, Mrs. Taneva? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You've been in this ministry for 12 years. This isn't the first hail... [[Reply by MP Desislava Taneva.]] It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Don't shout out of the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u131	Silence!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u132	12 years of prioritizing how many planes you've diverted, how many areas you've protected, so now you're standing out of this tribune and throwing criticism. [[Replications from the MPs Desislava Taneva and Mladen Shishkov.]] I understand, I understand that you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u133	Now Mrs. Taneva will have the opportunity for a personal explanation. Mr. Svilensky, this must be an attitude to what Mr. Ivanov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u134	Well, that's what Mr. Ivanov says. I'm not saying anything different, only that's what Mrs. Taneva is saying. [[(Reply from MP Desislava Taneva: How did you not insult me?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u135	You're addressing colleagues in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u136	Well, she's in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u137	I'll give her the floor after that for a personal explanation, as you asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u138	Okay. I have not offended Mrs. Taneva personally, I have offended the policy that you have led 12 years, which ruined Bulgaria. That's what I'm criticizing. I'm not criticizing you. [[Reply by MP Desislava Taneva.]] You're very nice, coworker. I don't have any criticism of you at all...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u139	Mr. Svilensky, you're getting out of line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u140	...but the policy you were conducting, and now to seek responsibility from the Minister and from the Ministry... And you didn't even know who to ask yourself. You didn't even know who to ask it to. You asked him to the Deputy Prime Minister of Economy, which has nothing to do with transport or agriculture, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u141	Mr. Svilensky, you can stop this dialogue now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u142	Mr. Chairman, please don't interrupt me. Two minutes if it's over, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u143	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u144	We just have to run out of procedure. Is there such a people involved? I won't. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. I won't. From rebirth? Kostadin Kostadinov and then for personal explanation Dessislava Taneva. [[People representatives Desislava Taneva and Georgi Svilenski continue to size their lines.]] I think he's entitled to a personal explanation. Mr. Kostadinov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u145	Mr. Minister, all that you have said is very nice, but we have not been able to hear anything very important, because all we are commenting on is post-factum what will be done, how benefits will be given, what they will be, how much they will be, and so on. The point is that we could not get an answer to a question that actually excited quite a lot of people and which, unfortunately, was not precedent because last year was the same case... [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, same place. There must have been other cases back in time, I'm guessing 100%. Hardly, unfortunately, that's a precedent, but last year because of an American plane passing through, the system wasn't activated. The system's obviously working. It may not work perfectly, it may not work the way we want it to, and it doesn't work the way it used to, it doesn't sound too nostalgic, but the fact is, it still works, and we can't blame people inside. The problem is when it doesn't work on purpose. And it doesn't work because it goes to other people's planes. That plane wasn't ours. At least last year it was announced to be American. It is obvious that in this situation measures should be taken that should be of priority for Bulgarian citizens, with priority for our farmers, because if each time, for every such case, especially now in view of the military actions, where the sky over Bulgaria literally teems, and even here every week they read a variety of notices about what transport, allied planes go and so on, if any such thing happens, we will find this very expensive. Among other things, it is extremely irresponsible to Bulgarian citizens, extremely irresponsible. We have the opportunity to fight hail, we do not, then we start talking and arguing about it: will compensations be paid, what and what. This should not be allowed anymore, and I think, if the interest of Bulgarian citizens is put at the end of the day, of the Bulgarian producers in the first place, that it should be approached in this way and not subsequently read reports, reports and argue with each other about things that are already post-factum. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There just has to be prevention of things happening in a single move that could be prevented and not come to such a rift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u146	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. That's what we've run out of relationships with. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the right to a personal explanation because I feel affected by what Mr. Svilensky said. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I would like to say, in a nutshell, that what we have done in terms of anti-city protection has been going on for several years, I would say, on our own. The executive agency for the fight against hails built up the system and if 2009 were the subject of protection around 17% of agricultural areas, this percentage of area that can be protected can now be closer to 80 if the upgrade continues in both ways. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Those are the facts. Secondly, on the contrary, I said and when Mr. Ivanov came, we did not have and expressed no attitude that agriculture and the Agency did not work. On the contrary, people have done their job within the framework of regulation that exists at the moment. Our thesis, question and demand is that this framework is changed, and the environment has changed, that we need a new agreement, accompanied by new state aid, which should satisfy the damage. Provided that the environment has changed and now there is no protection at a certain time when it is necessary, this compensation is certainly not going to satisfy them, so I have done everything in terms of being correct. Let us not politicize in this ugly way, because this can only be to the detriment of farmers. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Mr. Minister, you want to add something. You'll be able to answer, no problem. [[Replicate from Minister Ivan Ivanov.]] We could stop here by running out of attitude from the groups, but I'm giving you the opportunity to add, and then I'll give them some.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the opportunity that the Rules give me to take the floor and thank the President for giving it to me because a number of questions have been asked. First of all, it was asked whether the aid to be granted was up-to-date? Yes, the aid has been updated because, you know, ladies and gentlemen, MPs that the aid is calculated on the basis of technological maps, which we have updated according to the data from the National Statistical Institute and SAPI, which come today, from this year, from the first quarter, so that adequate assistance has been received. I'm calling the farmers again, well, insurance yourself! The insurance company will pay you as well, and there we will pay you 100% everything.. Once the insurance company will pay you, once we will pay you, and not to encourage someone else: do not insure yourself. But we're paying 65% of the amount, 100 leva. The state pays for them. And last year, less than 70% failed, and we paid them in a timely manner. The deadline was up to the 20th. You see, in 10 days, the paperwork has been processed and paid for. Ten days! If they had prepared earlier, we would have paid them sooner. We react in due course. If there is any discrepancy between what is required by farmers and what other institutions have foreseen, I say again, yes, on the 13th we will put our conditions, because we need to update the way in which it is communicated and, together with that, the different terms to be cleared when necessary. Mr. Kostadinov, stop... Because this is where the hailstorm was stopped and action was taken and the missile shooting was stopped, and nothing else happened. It was stopped from this centre because a passenger plane was passing. Stop tourists coming from abroad? Is that what we're supposed to do because we're firing missiles? We just need to update the way it communicates, that's the problem. Our people have executed. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] That's it, that's what happened. We've done our job, but we just want to update it. I mean, to fit in, to have... Because you see what is happening in 10 minutes 11 interruptions of missile shooting, because at the moment we have turned the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails to work at maximum, not to deviate and as in the past, unfortunately, have driven the Bistrian Tigers from one race to another to play a match. It's happened and you know it very well. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You have taken measures and we now do not allow such things to happen. That's the beauty of it. Regarding what the DPS asked. Yes, we have harnessed every resource, both European and national, and the crisis funds that the European Union has granted. A new regulation is currently under way, and when that happens, we will officially announce it at our request, supported by 13 other Member States, and 14 Member States have asked for it to receive more European funds. The Finance Ministry and I are working splendidly and there on a coalition council with Deputy Prime Minister Ninova we have defended a small amount, which will complement and our support will not be less than the Romanian European and Bulgarian total, which the Romanians have done. And there they support many times more farmers. In and out! So this year the state is in its place for the first time. Such a resource has never been given. Never! This year we are doubling the standard state and European funds we are giving. Double it! You understand what I'm talking about?! So my request is to stop politics in this direction so that these people can really focus on their activities and not deviate in one direction or another so that they can't receive benefits, and so on. That's the reality. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is Mladen Shishkov going to take your word for it? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait a minute. In principle, the final word must belong to the Members of the National Assembly in this procedure. [[Heckling]] Perhaps, yes, the MPs can answer it. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov. [[Heckling]] I know we're going into an endless... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, we won't stop him at 11:00. Just a second, Mr. Shishkov. Art. 59. The members of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. At their request, they are heard with priority. " - We give the floor whenever a minister asks. The Member of the National Assembly may determine the time during which the members of the Council of Ministers speak on a particular matter......................................................................................... we did not do this........................................................................................................................................................ (2) Each parliamentary group may express an opinion on the topic on which the member of the Council of Ministers spoke within two minutes when the subject is not on the agenda. [[Heckling]] That's true, but now you're... [[Heckling]] It is the same, but now you have taken their attitude, so I will give them the floor. [[Heckling]] They were first, but we looked at each other and agreed they wouldn't take the floor this time. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate you on your objectivity! Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! A few things. First of all, 15 million were granted last year. lv. from the state budget, of which two million were for compensation for the victims of hail in the same region. Two million! Out of fifteen million, two million! That you have taken action to pay off affected areas below 100% is to admire, but keep in mind that this support of 50 thousand. BGN, which is de minimis, is not absolutely enough for those people who had areas with costs above 2 million. lv. So they've got $2 million worth of damage. BGN, and you paid it back by 50,000. lv. That's not adequate help, Mr. Minister. This is entirely due to human error, which human error has been repeated this year. And this year we saw the same scenario. Why is this happening? Why is this happening? Let me answer: because the flight is now prioritized! Sit in both ministries, make a working group, find a mechanism for these flights in any way, if necessary, and they will be compensated for circumvention, for diversion, for slowing down, whatever else, but keep in mind that the production that is being destroyed for millions of levs cannot be compensated because these are costs, these are losses for which people need years to recover them. So a flight can always be diverted by 10 or 15 minutes. [[Reply from Minister Ivanov.]] Yes, this is our call to you, and that is why we have called you to come to the Chamber to tell you. This is what we support as an idea and as an initiative. Think of a new mechanism! Figure out a new support mechanism because you are currently assisting in 100% affected areas, supporting 80% costs and 50% for non-insured ones. Figure it out...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u152	The weather, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u153	...a new mechanism. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u154	Thank you. Anyone else want to add anything? I can't see. Rest until 11:00 when regular parliamentary control begins. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, we resume the meeting with the regular Friday PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First, let me read to you the written answers received from: - Minister Aleksandar Nikolov on a question from the MPs: Branimir Balachev; Ivaylo Mirchev; and two questions from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister Asena Serbenova of questions from the MPs: Anton Tonev; Blagovest Belev; Galina Georgieva; Denitsa Simeonova; Dimitar Nedyalkov; Dimitar Tashev; Ivan Manev; Ilin Dimitrov; Ina Ivanova; Yordan Terziyski; Yordanka Kostadinova; Kalin Ivanov; Kaloyan Ikonomov; Konstantin Bachiiski; Milen Mateev; Milko Penev; Peter Milanov; Rena Stefanova, Snezhana Apostolova; Stoil Stoilov; Stoyan Georgiev; Hristo Simeonov; two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on two questions from the MPs Iskra Mihailova and Tscho Ganev; on a question from the National Representative Maya Dimitrova; to a question from the National Representative Stefan Apostlov; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a request from the National Representative Elena Guncheva; on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov on two issues from the National Representative Denitsa Simeonova; - Minister Georgi Gokov on a question from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva; - Minister Daniel Lorre on a question from the MP Petar Petrov; - Minister Ivan Ivanov to a question from the MPs Manoil Manev and Iliana Zhekova; to four questions from the MP Plamen Abrovski; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on two questions from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Ina Ivanova; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from the National Representative Ivo Atanasov; - Minister Nikolay Sabev on four questions from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; on three questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Teodora Gencovska on a question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva. We move on to regular parliamentary control. First, the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance will answer a question from the MPs Irena Dimova and Kiril Ananiev about the need to develop a mechanism for the implementation of art. 84, para. 3 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, including with regard to the procedure for drawing up trilateral agreements and the order for their coordination by the Minister of Finance. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! With art. 84, para. 3 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 provides for the possibility that the amount of financial corrections imposed on municipalities is reduced by 80 percent once by concluding a tripartite agreement between the managing authority of the operational programme, the Minister of Finance and the Mayor of the municipality concerned. The Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 18 of 4 March 2022, but currently no mechanism has been provided in the form of guidelines, guidelines and/or methodology by the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of art. 84, para 3 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, including with regard to the procedure for preparation of trilateral agreements and the order of their coordination by the Ministry of Finance. In view of the above, the management bodies of the programmes co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Fisheries Fund do not have a mechanism for implementing art. 84, para. 3 of the Law on the State Budget for 2022 and respectively the municipalities.......... can not take advantage of the opportunities granted to them under the abovementioned provision of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, Mr. Minister, we ask you, as a body responsible for the management, coordination and control of the implementation of state policy in the field of public finances and a body which organises and controls the processes of receiving and transferring funds from the financial assistance provided to the Republic of Bulgaria by the European Union funds, to provide us with information on what actions have been taken to develop and provide to the managing authorities of the operational programs and municipalities of a mechanism for implementing art. 84, para. 3 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u158	Mr. Ananiev, thank you for the question. The text in question of art. 84, para. 3 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 in the current version, which exists in the Budget Act, was proposed by MPs and was supported by a second vote in the Budget Commission. Unfortunately, the text in force is not applicable in its current version and needs further clarification. To this end, we will now submit an amendment to the budget. The reason why the current version does not apply is that the provision does not comply with the mechanism for making financial corrections, which is in the European Structural Funds Fund Fund Management Act. In addition, as formulated, this legislative text calls into question compliance with European Union law establishing control and management schemes for operational programmes, which is the obligation of each Member State to prevent, detect and correct irregularities, as well as the obligation of the Member State to recover the amounts unduly paid, together with interest on late payments. As far as the hypothesis of art. 84, para. 3 establishes a reduction of all financial corrections imposed for irregularities, but only in respect of municipalities beneficiaries by programmes and not other beneficiaries co-financed by the listed funds, related to the previous paragraphs of art. 84 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 it can be concluded that all other beneficiaries with financial corrections imposed under programmes co-financed by the same funds are placed at a disadvantage less favourable. Therefore, with the introduced rule in art. 84 Hypothetically, there is also a question whether the rules of the European Union and national law on State aid are complied with when a beneficiary takes advantage of other beneficiaries. The question of interest is also unclear, which during the period of coordination and exchange of information in the conclusion of trilateral agreements do not cease to be charged, and that such an option is excluded when the obligation is transferred to the National Revenue Agency for collection. Next, referring to the managing authority in the very text of the programme as a party to the tripartite agreement, it is not in line with the fact that part of the managing authorities or functions of managing authorities may have been delegated to a different state authority, such as the State Fund, which complicates the procedure for drawing up and coordinating trilateral agreements. For this reason, we will propose a version of the text that will be able to achieve the objectives and then the corresponding instructions will be given.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u159	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ananiev, for a line? Here you go. You're entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u160	Dear Minister, I understand the reasons you put out of the stands for the fact that the text actually has some difficulties preventing it from being applied directly. I make a commitment, and if you don't mind between first and second readings, if you don't submit such a proposal yourself, to the Budget Committee to sit with the experts from the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Finance to make it really work. The idea is to continue the practice until 2021, and if the text by 2021 turns out to be operational and does not need to change anything else, we will simply return the text from 2021. And then you, as the period has expired, will issue instructions to apply from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Would you like a douche? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov. The first question is from the MPs Pavlin Krastev, Bajram Bajram and Adlen Shevked concerning the repair of Republican road III-86-53, II-58 Konush Here you go. Who's gonna ask the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development, these are a series of questions we will continue to ask you because in recent years these road sections and entire roads have been neglected by the Ministry. The specific question we are asking you today, Mr. Minister, is that despite the numerous letters sent to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Road Management of Kardzhali District, this is for the Republican Road III 86-53 and II-58 Konus We should stress that this time it is a transport link between Kardzhali District and Plovdiv District. In a section of km 4+200 to km 4+500 there is a failure of road II-58, namely Konus The closure of this section led to the inability to be used by both the residents of the municipality of Chernoochene and the residents of neighbouring municipalities and the district of Kardzhali. At present, this section is only secured and no reinforcement or construction and installation activities have yet to be undertaken. As a result, we have done, I stress again, inquiries to the API administration and Regional Road Management...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u163	Here you go, but your time is up. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u164	...who, of course, have not committed themselves to an answer and what time these recovery activities will be undertaken. Our question to you is, therefore, when will these necessary actions be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Management Office of Kardzhali, in strengthening the road and opening it up for its subsequent use in a state with the standard requirements for a Republican road that connects two areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u165	Thank you. Mr. Karadjov, please respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Shevked, Mr. Bajram, Mr. Krastev! Your question about the state of the Republican road II-58 in the Konush part of Black-eyed, hence the Communist "Topolovo" in the section at km 4+415 is really affected by destabilization processes, as a result of which the right lane for movement is compromised. A technological project has been developed to restore the technical and operational state of the section in 2019 and provides for a list of reconstruction events to be carried out on the road. In view of the deepening of the deformities on the road at the moment, it is necessary to carry out a new review and prepare a comprehensive project to strengthen this section of the road. It is therefore necessary to design a technical project to complement the already developed technology project. To this end, the API will announce this year a contract for the selection of contractors of research and design works, and as soon as the technical project is drawn up for construction and construction supervision. The efforts of the Road Infrastructure Agency are by strengthening this destabilization process to ensure safe and, above all, comfortable passage through the section of road II-58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u167	Thank you. Guys, come on in. Who's gonna get a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, you understand that we are not satisfied with the answer to our question. Keep in mind that there are yet to be new issues related to such compromised sections in the Republican road network of Kardzhali District, as we have landslide areas that are quite numerous and are long fixed and known to both API and Regional Road Management. Next week, we're gonna ask you a question about a division in Jebel County. The same problem lies in the municipality of Kardzhali, where the landslide process is on the road Kardzhali The fact that you mentioned at the moment that there is some project, most likely because the recovery process is slowing down over time, these projects are no longer relevant. It is clear to us, but more and more delay in the process leads to more and more complexity of the situation and this is a prerequisite not only for road accidents, we are risking life here, and many lives, and I think that by the end of this year your ministry should be a priority for these sections of the Republican road network that are affected by landslide processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u169	Thank you. You have the right to the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shevked, I agree. My surveillance is the same without going to the specific precinct or other precincts in Kardzhaliysko. But small towns and roads between them, I think, have been neglected for a very long time. In this year, what we can do for the more serious problems, namely the landslide processes that run and carry part of the canvas or somewhere the entire canvas, affect part of the canvas or the entire canvas, are to start immediately a public procurement for design. I can't call it slowing down. You may want us to strengthen it this year, but we will seriously violate the Public Procurement Act if we simply send a contractor to do concrete reinforcements, anchors or pilots, depends on what they prefer to constructors if we just choose a company from somewhere and place it to perform it. So, first of all, we have to... I'm sorry, that's the law. I see your gesture that you wish it would happen immediately, and by the way, I appreciate your insistence on asking about this type of road. It directs our attention and definitely achieves its goal. That is why this year the order will be announced for this time, probably next month the order for a complete design of a facility will be announced, most often it is a strengthening facility, which can then be stepped on to make the new road with a plane on the canvas, which satisfies the normal speed for which it is designed and not now the temporary one which is placed and limited in order to still be able to move on it some traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u171	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Angelov Ivanov on the repair of Republican road I-7 from the village of Okop to the town of Elhovo. Please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is related to the Republic road 1-7 in the village of Okop. In 2021, a design and task was carried out for the repair of this so heavy section of an international road connecting the Lesovo border point with international traffic and more than 1300 vehicles per day. Thanks to the actions of the Director of Regional Road Management and Municipal Councilor from BSP and acting district governor then, professionally appointed, the repair was suspended. In your plans for this year, the section from the village of Okop to the town of Elhovo was in the priority assignments, but now in your last priorities we see that the section is removed from the priorities, and there are two other sections, concerning the same Republican road from the village of Veselinovo to the village of Okop, and from the town of Elhovo to the border point of Lesovo, which section has absolutely no need for repair, most likely and you have been misled. My question is, and after the protest declaration adopted by the Municipal Council, Elhovo last week, and after the meeting with the residents of the village of Okop and the mayor of the village of Okop: will the repair of this section be carried out, within what deadlines and is it possible that the residents of the village of Okop to place an 80 meters noisy wall will be carried out. I hope we get a satisfying answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u173	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, road 1-7 Zimnitsa I would like to add that there has been a serious increase in traffic from Turkey through Bulgaria as part of the traffic that is in the northern direction, starting to actively deviate from Turkey's border to Lesovo and there, including the crossing itself, will undergo a serious extension for this very reason. The road on our part is very unprepared, without the necessary technical projects for major repairs, so this year we have ordered it to be very seriously repaired in the current repair, as there are very serious problems. In particular, this section between the village of Okop and the town of Elhovo with a length of 24,5 km is in unsatisfactory, I would say, an average unsatisfactory operating condition. Multiple falls, deep tracks, single holes and longitudinal and transverse cracks are available. The road restraint systems do not meet the current requirements, i.e. these are old patrols from many years ago, which have long been out of the European standard. The weak base and extremely intensive transit heavy freight traffic continue to aggravate the state of the road and endanger traffic safety. In 2021, the Road Infrastructure Agency commissioned the development of a technological project for the current repair of the section over 24 km long, divided into two subdivisions, respectively one with 15 km long, the other with 9 km long. During the past year the additional task for repair and with the implementation of the repair activities will be improved the operation and transport state of the section. It will ensure safe movement on this otherwise first-class road. I have no information to remove this area from our program, I don't know where your information comes from, if I have to check it further, but we haven't removed this section between the village of Okop and the town of Elhovo from our current repair program. The road maintenance company for this district Yambol is DSSD Road Maintenance. They have provided a project for a temporary traffic safety organisation and provides for the closure of the section and the redirection of the traffic along bypass routes. The route is only along Republican roads and is on road 1-7 from Kalchevo Activities are currently being carried out to prepare the bypass route in order to ensure safe and comfortable traffic movements during the repair activities of the section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u175	Mr. Ivanov, I see you've been looking forward to the possibility of a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I hope that after today's parliamentary control you will get acquainted with the uploaded information about this particular section. Yes, unfortunately, for more than a month it has been removed from the site as priorities and I hope really this year " 2022," on so bad quotes the current repair and maintenance of the section 24 km between the village of Okop and the town of Elhovo will be carried out the repair because this international road is already in emergency condition. I say this as a driver, it is also necessary to limit speed because the delayed repairs, the stopped actions by the persons in 2021 make the road really dangerous for every passing car and heavy goods vehicle. Therefore, I hand over to you the demands of the inhabitants of both the village of Okop and the town of Elhovo, rather what was to be done during the summer period of 2021 and ceased then, to be carried out within this year. Because with each passing day what most likely the engineers of the district road management in the last week have provided you with information is a fact with really many falls, lack of boards, already with extremely many holes along the segment itself. So we're counting on what you're giving us as an answer, despite the information downloaded from the site just about this section, prioritizing two other sections of the Yambol District from main road 1-7 to be repaired in the coming months of this year. The demands of the inhabitants of the village of Okop are to put on both parts a soundproof barrier, which is ultimately necessary, as the road passes through the part of the village of Okop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u177	You have the right to an audience, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is not downloaded from the program this is important, i.e. it will be implemented, is coming, as I said, as soon as the travel routes are prepared to take on the increased traffic and proceed to the repair of the 24km track. Otherwise, in addition, I will tell you that my personal opinion, which I have already shared with the management of API, has asked for a survey based on the rising annual traffic rate of about 30% from Turkey to Europe. The task that I have set is to do research on whether this route specifically does not have a gauge of up to two plus two, i.e. a four-band road, since freight traffic in the south, according to the observations they make in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, is that with the perspective, while we design it, until the relevant EIA, estrangement procedures are done and so on, traffic will be so great that the traffic on this road with two lanes, with two lanes of movement will become absolutely impossible to move citizens between so many cargo transports. That is why I have assigned an assignment to do such research. It will take a long time, at least six months to monitor traffic and to conclude whether it is economically correct to proceed to such public spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u179	Thank you. Mr. Karadjov, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are now moving on to the issue of the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov on target heating aid for the upcoming winter season 2022. Here you are, Mrs. Sacheva, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, my question to you is related to the target heating aid during the current winter season. Since the beginning of July, the collection of applications for targeted aid for the new heating season has started. I would like to ask you to provide information to both myself and the Members of the National Assembly whether changes in the conditions of granting this target aid are envisaged, given the expected increases in the price of electricity and natural gas. Do you intend to introduce in the legislation a definition of energy poverty that has been valid since the beginning of this heating season? And if you expect in relation to the measures envisaged for pensioners and their increased pensions from 1 July, what are the measures that you have taken so that they do not fall out of the conditions for receiving this aid in case they need it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Mr. Minister, please respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, the main priority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is to provide support to the most vulnerable groups. Therefore, in 2022, the Ministry will continue to implement the policy of ensuring social protection of the lowest income and risk groups of the population by granting targeted heating aid. For 2022, we foresee such support to receive 300,000 persons and families. In comparison, in the last heating season 2021, the target heating aid received 261 thousand persons and families, with the amount paid for them being 135, nearly 136 million. lv. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 approved additional expenditure on the centralised budget for the payment of targeted heating aid amounting to 50 million. And 100,000. lv. In this regard, and in relation to the expected increase in the number of eligible persons and the appreciation of energy carriers is this increase. In this way, the total amount of funding for the new heating season 2022 will reach 181 million. And 300,000. BGN, while 131 million were envisaged for the last heating season 2021. And 200,000. lv. Annually in the order of art. 2, para. 3 of the Ordinance, by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, lays down a correction coefficient whereby pensioners do not lose the right to aid for heating and after updating pensions. For each new heating season, the coefficient shall be updated on a chain-based basis by a percentage equal to or greater than the percentage determined by the rule of art. 100, para. 1 of the Social Security Code, on the basis of which the monthly amount of the target aid for the upcoming heating season is determined. The correction factor used, which will include this year's percentage increase in pensions, will ensure that adults are entitled to continue receiving heating aid during the next heating season. It will also increase the amount of aid that will compensate for the increase in the price of electricity for domestic consumption. The amount of aid shall be determined annually according to the changes in electricity prices adopted by a Commission decision on energy and water regulation on 1 July each year. The beneficiaries shall be given the option to choose the type of heating used "solid fuel', electricity, gas or heat. In the context of KEWRC's forthcoming decision to increase gas and heat prices, the question of so-called energy poverty is again raised. The position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has always been that this is a complex problem which cannot and should not be solved only with the targeted heating aid, even more in the absence of an accepted definition of energy poverty. Energy poverty is not determined solely by social indicators. Energy poverty parameters are also the energy efficiency of buildings, energy and infrastructure prices, income levels and a number of other indicators. The European Union focuses on energy efficiency and its key to addressing energy poverty in the long term, while social payments and support are seen as a time-limited and effective measure. Temporary income support is only one part of the measures, with the emphasis on the adoption of long-term measures and investments to reduce dependence on fossil fuels through increased energy efficiency of housing... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, just let me finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u183	Here you go. I'll just remind you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u184	Yes, thank you. ...decarbonisation of heating and cooling of buildings, including the integration of energy from renewable sources. Other important measures are to ensure wider access to mobility and transport with zero and low emissions in favour of vulnerable households, micro-enterprises and users of transport. Given the key role of energy policy, the definition of the concept of energy poverty is implemented within a working group of the Ministry of Energy with the active participation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and other interested departments such as the Ministry of Economy and Industry, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Sacheva, you've written it down quite thoroughly. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I always write down, so you should be careful when talking to me, because I do take notes from conversations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u187	Who was that warning to?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u188	No, I just want to tell you that I listen very carefully when I talk to someone, and that's why I wrote it down. Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for answering so comprehensively. What I would like to draw attention to once again in relation to the pensioners is that the coefficient of charge should also provide for those 60 BGN, which will be on the increase of 10%, because it is possible precisely because of these 60 BGN, which you are currently predicting to enter the pensions - something that we believe is wrong in principle, a large part of the pensioners to be deprived of the opportunity to receive heating aid, and this is very important, especially given the expected difficult winter season. I understand that there will be no movement in terms of energy poverty within this year, but I hope that from next year and from the next budget specific measures relating to energy efficiency can also be envisaged, because you know that there is already good practice in Sofia with regard to a programme for replacing solid fuel heating with targeted aids that provide opportunities to buy heating appliances that will work precisely in this direction of energy efficiency. I also believe that there should be a significant increase in aid specifically for electricity and natural gas, because from last year's data, most of the target heating aid is still for solid fuel only 5166 people have received steam and only 440 for natural gas. I believe that this year they will be considerably more and I hope the Ministry will prepare the appropriate measures for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u189	Thank you. Interesting dialogues between former and current ministers. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, you are aware of everything we are talking about right now, and you cannot be unaware of what we are talking about supporting the so-called energy aids that have gained widespread popularity. I assure you that we will comply with everything we do for the pension for their increase, not to affect the support of the pensioners, although everyone must admit that pensions are increasing, and currently as an electric one. the energy for domestic consumers is not increasing. This, of course, does not apply to solid fuels, gas, steam and so on. However, this correction coefficient by which pensioners do not lose the right to heating aid will be such that they are not affected from this point of view. As far as the concept of energy poverty is concerned, I very much wish we had already defined it, and not today, not in a week, not from the beginning of the new year, but 10 years ago, 15 years ago. However, the definition of this concept is not easy. If I can make an analogy, it's as difficult as it turns out to be the electronization of the workbook. For me this should be a simple process, but it turns out that this workbook process is very complex and its electronization that we are currently working on. It is the same with the notion of energy poverty. Believe me, we work, we study other people's experience, and I have to tell you, rather, you know that there is no country in Europe that has finally defined this concept. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, when it comes to the social aspect of support for increasing energy prices for people who can't pay, it has been known for many years that we are implementing it now, we will continue to apply it. It works to a certain extent, but it is, I repeat, a temporary measure. You know, no matter how much we support a retired guy, if you want, and a guy who can't pay his fucking bill. energy, because its dwelling is not sanitized or its appliances are not energy efficient, we will not be able to resolve the issue. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So we'll keep working. I hope from 1 January 2023 we will have a clearer concept of energy poverty in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u191	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your participation. There was only one question for you. Next are the questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Teodora Genchovska. The first question is from the National Representative Rumen Hristov about the Sanatorno-Science Complex Kamchia. Please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, before I ask the question, I will not hide my disappointment that he was redirected by the Prime Minister to whom I had addressed him. I think it is extremely important, especially that the Prime Minister is also the Chairman of the Security Council, but whatever. Mrs. Minister, publications on the Sanatorno-health complex of Kamchia appeared in the Bulgarian media, near the town of Varna, which is owned by the government of Moscow. A disturbing report of the Russian state's intentions on this property was submitted. The complex has a territory of 470 thousand. kv. m or with an area greater than the Vatican State owns on Italian soil. In December 2019, the Moscow National Security Council discussed in the presence of President Putin the passage of the holiday complex of Kamchia. During the hearings in the Upper Chamber of the Russian Parliament of Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is asked the following question by Russian senators: Isn't it time for the government to put a point in this dispute and to create on the basis of the Russian Humanity Centre as the main foreign cultural humanitarian site for the promotion of our................................ the Russian interests in Europe?........................................ If we are talking about soft power, it is its ideal image in the most positive sense. These facts become extremely relevant in the context of the war in Ukraine. Why is the Russian government at such a high level, President Putin and Foreign Minister Lavrov discussing the children's camp in Bulgaria? Isn't that a prerequisite for a soft force to become a firm force? I am concerned that this property, owned by the government of Moscow, will not serve as an occasion for Russian conquest interests to head towards the Bulgarian part of our Black Sea coast. In relation to these facts, my question to you, Minister, is: what is the legal status and structure of the property of the Sanatorno-Stand-Standing Complex near Varna? And is Bulgaria's national security at stake in your opinion? In view of the above facts, is it not good to consider whether the property can be returned to the patrimony of the Bulgarian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u193	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, the Sanator-health complex is a Bulgarian legal entity registered as a sole shareholder within the meaning of the Commercial Law, with sole owner of the capital, the government of Moscow, acting on the basis of the law for the city of Moscow through the Department of Property of Moscow. The subject of activity is the management of an investment project for the construction of the Sanator-health complex for children and young people with health, educational, cultural and rehabilitation functions through recreation and tourism. Hotel complex, medical center, school, children's camp and sports facilities are located on the territory of the complex. The company has issued class A investment certificates for priority investor, in 2007, 2009, 2012 by the Bulgarian Investment Agency. According to data from the cadastral map of the village of Bliznatsi, Municipality of Avren, Varna, the complex Such information on the right of ownership of individual land properties is publicly available through the Property Register. The Sanator-health complex "Kamchia" is owned by "SOK Kamchia" Ltd., established in 2003 with a special investment purpose, registered with headquarters and address of the management of the Republic of Bulgaria, Burgas, represented by Nikolay Georgiev Nedyalkov, Bulgarian citizen. In view of the fact that the ownership of the complex is private and is not acquired under an international contract and the contract for the investment project is concluded by the Ministry of Economy, in this regard the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no relation to it. Regarding the questioning: Is the property of Bulgaria threatened by the national security of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs inquired to the State Agency of National Security, which informed us that no specific information has been received, giving reason to claim that the complex is currently a threat to national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u195	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Christov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u196	Thank you for your comprehensive response to the structure and composition of the property. However, what concerns national security was only in one sentence based on an inquiry to the State Agency of National Security. I pay attention to all Members of the National Assembly, as well as to you, Mrs. Minister, for me this land represents a Russian enclave. Is there any reason for him to be protected for one reason or another? In this sense, perhaps specialists in this area need to work a little deeper so that there are no problems after a while our country. I mean, for me, the issue was not so much about ownership, of course, that it is important, but about how it could be used, because you heard what I was quoting just now, and most of all what Lavrov said. This could be an ideal centre in Europe for their propaganda and perhaps for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u197	Thank you. Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We move on to the next question, which is also to you, from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev about the flight of a Russian government plane through the Bulgarian airspace. Here you go, Mr. Gadget. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers! My question is yet again on this subject, as I have asked a similar question to the Minister of Transport, who is referencing to the Foreign Ministry, and that is why I am asking it to you. What's this about? On Easter this year, a Russian aircraft, despite the ban on Russian aircraft flying over the territory of the European Union, flew through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria at destination Sochi, Belgrade and vice versa. According to the data provided by the Minister of Transport, the permit of the flight was granted by the Foreign Ministry after it assessed and granted humanitarian status to the fields. I must point out that there have been several similar flights of aircraft of the Russian Federation for the transport of, for example, diplomats who have been declared persona non grata from different European capitals, but they have not received humanitarian status and have had to bypass the entire European space until they reach the capital or the airport from which they will be driven. The brightest example of this is the removal of expelled diplomats from Madrid, where a Russian company plane traveled across Europe by 14 000 km to avoid passing through the European Union aviation space and to comply with this ban. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question is: which official in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and on what grounds did he grant humanitarian status and accordingly authorise the abovementioned flight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, in the performance of art. 50, para. 3 of the Civil Aviation Act, flights in the airspace of foreign non-military aircraft are authorised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. By order of 9 April 2022, I have authorised the Director of the Consular Relations Directorate to sign all documents concerning the provision of presentation and obtaining of diplomatic permits necessary for conducting flights from Bulgarian and foreign aircraft. In the case of flight RSD 096 of the Russian Federation on 24 April this year on the route Soci, Belgrade, Moscow has complied with the internal coordination procedure, ordered by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of 4 March 2020 and issued a diplomatic permit for the execution of a flight in order to evacuate diplomatic officers of the Embassy of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of Ordinance No 22 of 21 July 1999 the permit for the implementation of the flight is agreed with the Directorate General................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The authorisation issued for the implementation of the flight is based on a derogation under art. 3d of the 2002 Regulation Council No 334 and use of the principle of reciprocity for the performance of flights of Bulgarian aircraft. On March 28th of this year, on the Sofia route "Moscow" Sofia to evacuate diplomatic officers of the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Moscow and on April 18, 2022 on the Sofia route "Sochi" Varna to evacuate Bulgarian sailors from the ship "Tsarevna". In accordance with the requirements of art. 4h Paragraph 4 of the 2014 Decision CFSP No 512 on 27 April the Ministry of Foreign Affairs notified the European Commission and the Member States of the derogation for the implementation of the flight accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u201	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Gadget, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u202	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, as far as I understand from your reply, administratively you have complied with all the requirements since 1999, on the various directives, although since March 2021 one of the packages of sanctions has imposed bans on Russian airlines and the Russian state through the airspace, you have actually made a binding mechanism, that is to say, you have derogated the two fields that are for transporting Bulgarian diplomats from Moscow, plus the shipping of sailors from the ship "Tsarevna" through Sochi and on the basis of this you have authorised the removal of Russian diplomats from Belgrade. That is, when the Russian Federation gave us permission to perform these two fields and you gave as a replacement coin the same permission to transport and fly a plane to the Russian Federation. I mean, as far as I understand it, the derogation that we have requested from the European Commission of the plantation package is related to exchange flights between the Bulgarian State and the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u203	Thank you. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gajev, the derogation we requested is for humanitarian flights, not flights.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u205	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This has run out of questions for you. We are moving on to the questions to Mrs. Serbenova, Minister of Health. The first question is by Elisaveta Belobradova on amending and supplementing the Rules for Implementation of the Public Procurement Act with Decree No 167 of 22 April 2021. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Serbenova, with Decree No 167 of 22 April 2021 amending and supplementing the Rules for Implementation of the Public Procurement Act adopted by Decree No 73 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 and promulgated in No. 35, the drug market is further closed and the competition is limited by law when participating in public procurement to submit an offer mandatory on all nomenclatural components. Something that is within the power of a very narrow circle of companies, as you can see, this has been done in the last possible seconds of the former management of GERB. The correction has been made and shall enter into force since 1 January 2023. Two provisions of art. 30 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. I'm not gonna quote them right now, and I don't need to. In the light of the above, I would like to ask whether concerted changes are not a prerequisite for corrupt practices, and how will the Ministry of Health ensure that the processes are as transparent as possible, and how is dropping diversification in favour of public and municipal hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Belobradova, the Ministry of Health maintains the position not only of this management but also of the previous ones, regarding public procurements for the purchase of medicinal products and medical devices, which are conducted by public contracting entities, that the possibility should be made available for individual nominations within the separate positions, as the contrary would make it very difficult for hospital hospitals to organise under the Public Procurement Act to purchase the products, medicines and consumables quoted by me. I would only add to the response that my colleagues have prepared without quoting a particular hospital, but a large Sofia hospital, for example, may have a 900-position announcement, which means that after 1 January, the period you have quoted, 2023, this would require the cancellation of an order, on several orders, for example, over 20 committees, 20 appeals and so on. The initiative is such an opportunity for the establishment of separate denominations within the separate positions to be legally governed by the Ministry of Health, the temporary restriction is until 1 January 2023 and is introduced in connection with the entry into force of the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1780 establishing new standard forms for the publication of notices in the field of public procurement at European Union level. Provoked by your question, for which I thank you, we have also made appropriate calls with the Public Procurement Agency. We will also refer the matter to the Ministry of Finance, but also through the health attaché we will send questions to the Member States about how this matter is settled in their territories, as the formal basis of a form should not prevent hospitals from properly organising public procurement. We believe that, at present, the principle allowing participation in one or more or all nominations within a separate position should be maintained, as this principle is fully in line with the Public Procurement Act and, in this sense, the process for dropping the temporary restriction laid down in the Rules for Implementation of the Law will be initiated. So rather, the problem on which you place attention and light, I could not at this stage answer whether it could lead to corrupt practices, of course, but what I will certainly answer is that it would make the work of hospital hospitals difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u209	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Belobradova, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u210	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. Within what time can we expect an answer from the Member States to whom you have asked questions, and at what time can we expect your expert position and possibly your analysis of whether there is a need for urgent changes or how will this regime be approached at all after 1 January 2023?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u211	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Belobradova, there's no way I can commit to a deadline that's not up to me. However, I have said several times in the reply that previous managements of the Ministry of Health have also posed this question. I have examined and tried extremely carefully to clarify the genesis of the problem that you are putting in place and the period in question, which expires on 1 January 2023. Of course, it should not reassure us that there is half a year until then, so I say that we have taken measures. But before me is a letter signed by a former Minister of Health with an outgoing number on January 20, 2021, which poses the same problem, Professor Angelov. So it really is a problem that should be solved. So far, as far as I have also been informed by my colleagues at the Ministry of Health, the calls with the level of the Public Procurement Agency have not worked, so we will raise this issue further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u213	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Health, which is asked by the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov about the scientific activity and the question of the academic growth of the staff at the University Specialized Hospital..Active treatment of oncology.................................................................... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u214	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In recent years, cancer has increased dramatically. They've shifted the cardiovascular disease. We are talking about a socially significant disease in Bulgaria. There goes an extremely important Republican-important hospital this is the oncology hospital. My question to you, Madam Minister, is in the name of thousands of patients who rely on competent opinions and treatments for their severe diseases. Why would these patients not have the opportunity to be treated with the best specialists built for years? You are probably not surprised by this question because this question was addressed to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and you have been aware of the problems that have been in the cancer hospital for years. These signals were written by respected professors and habilitated individuals who built for decades their authority and that of the Oncological Hospital in Sofia. During the last more than four years, the director Konstantinov has destroyed for years what was built by prominent specialists. They were fired or forced to leave the hospital, such as Professor Balakki, Associate Professor Ganchev, Dr. Glavicki, Dr. Katerinski, Professor Alexandrova, Associate Professor Nikolov, Professor Kurtev, Head of the surgical department, extremely good specialist leading, Professor Kurteva, Head of the Tumour Treatment Clinic, she is of international importance and authority. In recent years, scientific activity and the question of the academic growth of staff at the University Hospital of Oncology have been completely ignored. During the period from 2019 until the beginning of 2022, no action has been taken to select a new Scientific Council, which is a necessary condition for the implementation of the research and academic development of the hospital. Competitions for head of clinics and wards, deputy director, head nurse and others are not announced within the legal deadline. At the same time, there is also a shortage of staff in almost all units of the hospital and a huge turnover of staff, which is harmful to the specifics of work for the cancer hospital, especially for patients. What are the reasons for the systematic eradication of the scientific potential of the oncology hospital?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u215	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prof. Ivanov, really for the period quoted by you, no action has been taken by the selection of a new Scientific Council and not only for the period you are quoting, from 2019 until the beginning of 2022, but also after the expiry of the 5-year term. This has also established the verification of the Ministry of Health, respectively, which is a violation of art. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Scientific Council oncology at the specialized hospital for active treatment of oncology. These Rules have been established by Protocol No 3 of 17 July 2012. At the same time, however, the verification finds that the functioning of the Council, although it has not been busy, has not been interrupted. Because according to the same rules until the election of a new Council, the old one continues to perform his functions. We should also take into account the fact that this Scientific Council is an autonomous body and operates on the basis of the Rules of Procedure adopted by its Members. In connection with several signals that the Ministry of Health received, indeed, from the level that you quoted, as well as written directly to us, I ordered inspections both to the Internal Audit and to the Inspectorate. As, of course, the scope of the checks does not include only the foot security, which you are quoting in your question, we have extended these checks. Indeed, the General Assembly of Employees was delayed, but this was held in January 2022. A new Scientific Council has been selected. At the moment, the hospital's claims are that it is fully operational. With regard to the turnover, the Ministry of Health's verification found that in recent years some of the habilitated persons, you quoted some, but there are others, have acquired the right to a pension for insurance service and age, according to the information provided by the Executive Director, an opportunity to work until their age has been reached under § 11 of the Additional Provisions of the Higher Education Act. On the update of the Scientific Council, measures were indeed taken only at the beginning of this year. I would like to point out that this is about a month and a half before the Department of Health's inspection. It wasn't until the beginning of this year anyway. I personally commit to following your concerns that this affects the quality of medical activity, I will follow them. This is not confirmed so far, but I personally believe that the checks in this direction have not been completed at all. In the period January 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] concerning the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). " 31 December 2021" have left 19 doctors, and these documents have been checked by colleagues from the Internal Audit (Inside As health care professionals, they have been received.33; they have left 45. However, we have established a non-current roll call schedule, which means that effective control is not provided and the data is not updated in a timely manner. Not only for the period you are quoting, but for a longer period, the Ministry has found that from September 2017 until the end of last year no contests have been held for taking up an academic position assistant, chief assistant and associate professor. Again from this highest tribune, I assure you that I will personally monitor the scientific development of the personnel and concept of management in this direction. With regard to this interruption in the academic growth of the personnel you are quoting, our checks do not confirm that this affects the quality of medical care. During this time new research has been introduced, new methods of treatment. The checks of both the Ministry of Health and the Agency for Medical Supervision found that at the time of the checks the expired term contracts of chiefs of clinics or wards in the medical establishment were announced. Competition procedures are already under way. Thank you for your attention. If there's anything to specify in the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u217	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, right to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u218	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let me disagree with you. I think a large part of the facts that have been found in the three checks, which, of course, you have appointed, someone conceals the facts about Dr. Stefan Konstantinov. One of the things that worries me personally that I asked for the documents for these three checks that I didn't get in full the reports for. I will only say one thing: that Rosen Ivanov's conclusion of the report has been transmitted to the prosecution, which you did not provide me with. In three years, the Medical Council, Madam Minister, has gathered twice. For the last four years, since Konstantinov was director, a competition for professor has been announced. As you yourself said: none for assistant, chief assistant and associate. No new people have been appointed to the post of the released members of the Academic Council. From two years and between 15 September 2017 and 27 January 2022 there is no legitimacy The Scientific Council, because the Executive Director Konstantinov refuses to convene a meeting for the selection of the Scientific Council. It's January 27, 2022. I've checked. Targeted is reduced the number of habilitated persons, making it impossible to protect dissertations and new habilitations. I would like to quote the Director in question to my esteemed professor: "There can be no scientific activity in this hospital, I am now in this position. "I can do what I want and you will obey, end the quote. I don't know from these checks what conclusions have been drawn, but I'll quote Art. 37, para. 1 of the Rules of the Law on Public Enterprises under Section III, Chapter Five. Madam Minister, what is the legal law and the basis for Dr. Chavdar Marinov's Deputy Executive Director of the Board of Oncology to be governor and to reconcile two positions? Where's the law? The same colleague, Dr. Chavdar Marinov, was fired by Decho Dechev for financial abuse and has bankrupted two hospitals. The same goes for Chief Nurse Villalena Ognyanova. There is no competition for her position either. What's this?! Is this transparency and where is the change I would ask?! I have requested all contracts from 2017, which have been concluded for the hospital, so far, have not been granted to me. The scientific department is currently headed by Trayan Yordanov A young doctor, it's okay to be young people assigned to such positions, but not to head a Scientific Council where people for years, I would say, have been proving their professional qualities for decades, defending labors and proving professionalism abroad. In recent years they have been forced to leave, as you said, 40 nurses from the operating block and anesthesiology. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just give me a second. I would like to say that there is no way not to violate the normal function of a hospital when from the operating block and the anesthesiology department leave experienced nurses. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. If urgent measures are not taken to change the management of the USBAL in oncology, the hospital itself will have subsiding functions. Please, Madam Minister, pay serious attention, because these are letters, these are the wishes of people who want to preserve not only the authority of the hospital, but to take care of the patients. Give them the opportunity to exercise what they have accumulated for years, and I do not think that they would lightly release their positions. I rely entirely on immediate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, I gave you more time. [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] As I understand it, this is about a period of time when you ruled. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u220	That was incorrect.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u221	Why, isn't that true?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Ivanov, in fact you correctly pointed out for the verification of Rosen Ivanov. For the House to say that this is actually the head of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health. As I told you in my reply, we expanded the check past the signals we received. Some of these checks, of course, not for the scientific part, are directed to other bodies because of this opinion of the colleagues from the Legal Directorate for the failure to present this particular part of the Report. I took very careful notes of the facts that you presented. It's like I didn't say for a reason that these checks weren't over, so we're going to join those facts in the investigation to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u223	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a personal explanation? [[Calls MP Lachezar Ivanov.]] You're holding back. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question to the Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov. The issue is from the MP Vasil Zashkev about the relations between "Borosport" AD and the State Forest Agency. Here you are, Mr. Zashkev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, my question relates to an extremely sensitive subject for a large part of the Samokov public. It is about relations between Borosport company and specifically the Forest Agency, because a large part of the Samokov public feels a guest in Borovets and the slopes which several generations of self-sakovists with voluntary labor have built. They are currently inaccessible to local people. On a number of my admissions they ask the following questions: which territories cover the eight contracts concluded at the time of their conclusion in 2009 to establish the right to use land by the State Forest Fund between the State Forest Fund and the State Forest Agency? This is exactly what ski slopes covers, what are the obligations of the Borosport JSC to the Forest Agency at that time? Is there any financial obligations, and is Borosport AD fulfilling them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u225	Thank you, Mr. Zashkev. Mr. Minister, please respond for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zashkev, I will answer you with contracts as given. The Treaty No 86 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the Borosports Department established a right of use for a period of 30 years on areas of the State Forest Fund of a total amount of 92,503 decares necessary for carrying out activities related to long-term and short-term recreation, physical culture, sport, tourism, which do not require construction within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on Construction on the Area, namely ski slopes..Markudzhik 2. In the land of Samokov, for which the Company paid a price for establishing a right to use, amounting to 89 thousand. 100 leva. and overheads of BGN 1782 2. Contract No 87 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the State Forest Agency was established a right of use for a period of 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 31,807 decares necessary for carrying out activities related to long-term and short-term recreation, physical culture, sport and tourism, for which no construction within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area, namely the ski track..The Company...................... the Land of Samokov............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 503 lv. and overheads of BGN 2830 3. Contract No 88 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the Borosports Department was granted a right of use for a period of 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 11,867 decares necessary for carrying out activities related to long-term and short-term recreation, physical culture, sport and tourism, for which construction is not required within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Land of Samokov ski track, for which the Company paid a price for establishing a right to use, totaling 52 thousand. BGN 627. and overheads of BGN 1052 4. Treaty No 89 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the Borosports Department established a right of use for 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 19,735 decare for the same activities for which construction is not required within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area, namely the ski track "Fonfon" in the land of the town of Samokov, for which the Company paid a price for establishing the right to use, amounting to a total of 20 thousand. 467 leva. and overheads of 409 BGN 5. Treaty No 90 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the Borosports Department established a right of use for a period of 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 59,437 decares necessary for carrying out activities cited earlier, for which construction is not required within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Area, namely the ski track "Sitnyakovo" in the land of the town of Samokov, for which the Company paid a price for establishing the right to use, amounting to 248 thousand. BGN 986. and overheads of BGN 4980. 6. Contract No 91 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the Borosport JSC was established a right of use for a period of 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 98,423 decares needed for the same activities which I quoted a short time ago, which does not require construction within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Land of Samokov, for which the Company paid a price for establishing the right to use, totaling 94 thousand. £880. and overheads of BGN 1898 7. Treaty No 92 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forest Agency and the Borosports Department established a right of use for a period of 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 79,580 decares required for the same activities for which construction is not required within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Land of Samokov, for which the Company paid a price for establishing the right to use, amounting to 352 thousand. BGN 756. and overheads of BGN 7055 8. Contract No 93 of 3 February 2009 between the State Forests Agency and the Borosports Department established a right of use for a period of 30 years on an area of the State Forest Fund of 42,132 acres required for the same activities is still not required for construction within the meaning of art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area, namely the ski track "Haramiya" in the land of the town of Samokov, for which the Company paid a price for establishing the right to use, amounting to a total of 40 thousand. £615. and overheads of BGN 812 According to the above-mentioned contracts, there are no financial obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zashkev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mr. Minister. The answers made so formally show that everything is right. I will not speak here as a lawyer of the State Forest Agency and the Ministry respectively, but it was very important for the Samokov public, a large part of it to hear in what way, how they were given, for how long, because these are things that local people are excited about and will obviously continue to get excited, I think, after your answers. Another is the question, and here I'm going to take a little detour, that these tracks, I don't know how, were listed in a certain period of municipal property as state property, I think to the detriment of Samokov Municipality and she did nothing then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u229	Thank you, Mr. Zashkev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zashkev, what I can add is that, as I just said, all 8 contracts between the State Forest Agency and Borosport are for an established right of use within 30 years. That's how they got them. As the established right of use is a limited right of property and does not constitute a concession, it is not a concession. There is no order in the Forest Law to grant concession territories. As a matter of fact, there are currently no reports of irregularities and non-compliance with contracts, which is interesting because it obviously excites people, but has not submitted any signals to the Forest Agency. And what I can add is that the contract provides that contracts can only be terminated on a judicial basis, and that is under certain conditions, which obviously did not occur at this date. If you have any additional information that can be commented, of course, you are welcome, and if there are any signals to be discussed accordingly whether there are any violations available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u231	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions to the Minister of Culture Mr. Atanas Atanasov. Mr. Petrov, you are the first to ask a question about a non-working community center in the village of Sofronievo, Miziya municipality, Vratsa district.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! In the village of Sofronievo in the municipality of Miziya, Vratsa district, there is a Chitalishte to which there is a Chitalishte board and according to the information of the villagers, this community center has not been active cultural and enlightened activity within the meaning of the law for 20 years. Since the beginning of 2020, it has not functioned at all and even annual celebrations have been held in the square of the village rather than in the building of the Chitalishte. On the other hand, according to the information provided by the residents of the village, the same was received state funding according to art. 21, para. 3 of the People's Chitalishtes Act. According to the data of the residents of the village of Sofronievo, who wish to develop cultural activity, there are currently more than 200 applications for membership in the Chitalishte Board of Citizens who have not been processed. Thus, according to them, they are violated the right granted to them within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1 sentence 2 of the Law on People's Chitalishtes, I quote: "In their activities all individuals can participate without regard to restrictions on age and gender, political and religious views and ethnic self-consciousness. " Under the Law, the Minister of Culture assists the development of the Chitalishte case, supports and supports the Chitalishtes of the People, including by analysing the state and activity with the help of the district and municipal administrations. 4b, para. 2. Mr. Minister, given that you were appointed as a Chitalishte Actor, a person who is interested in the Bulgarian Chitalishtes and seeks to keep them and preserve them, my question to you is: is there any real cultural and enlightened activity in the village of Sofronievo? Has the Chitalishte Board accepted any new members, and has it received any state funding in the last 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u233	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, please answer the current question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u234	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Petrov! As regards the receipt of state funding from the People's Chitalishte of the People's Citadel of Probuda of 1927, the Chitalishte of Sofronievo received a state subsidy allocated by the mayor of the Municipality of Miziya commission under art. 23 of the Law on People's Chitalishtes, the subsidy for the activities delegated by the state and is part of the municipal budget. As regards the carrying out of cultural and enlightened activities, after an official consultation in the Register of People's Chitalishtes and Chitalishtes, it is found that the Chitalishte in the village of Sofronievo has been entered under No 2790 and has submitted information cards for its activities for the last two years and 2022. The Chitalishte has library and information activities, applied for the enrichment of the library fund on projects of the Ministry of Culture for the purchase of books in 2020 and 2021. Next, it is evident from the submitted information cards, the Chitalishte develops educational activities, amateur creativity and participates in regional events related to the cultural calendar of the municipality. It is important to note that, according to the provisions of the Law, by 31 March, the chairmen of the Chitalishtes presented annually to the mayor of the municipality and the municipal council a report on the implementation of the annual programme and the expenditure spent by the budget in the previous year. The funding of the community community centers is a two-sided process of planning and reporting, in which the people's community centers and municipalities are equally involved. The law regulates the clear link between the planning of the activity and its financial provision, on the one hand, and the reporting of the activities carried out and the funds spent and its subsequent funding, on the other. At the heart of this link is the Annual Programme for the Development of Chitalishte Activities, which should be accepted by each municipality, which is based on the proposals of the local Chitalishtes. In this regard, an immediate monitoring of the activities of the Chitalishte has the local authorities, the Municipal Council in Miziya and the mayor of the municipality. Regarding the admission of new members of the Chitalishte under the Law on People's Chitalishtes, they are traditional self-governing Bulgarian cultural and enlightened associations in the settlements and have the status of non-profit legal entities. The requirements for acquiring the quality of a member of a Chitalishte are listed in detail in the Law on People's Chitalishtes, and it is also stated that the Statute governs the method of acceptance of members and termination of membership, as well as the order for determining membership. It is apparent from art. 12 of the Law on the People's Chitalishtes Bodies of the Chitalishte are the General Assembly, the Board and the Verification Commission. In view of the above, the Minister of Culture cannot exercise control over the management bodies of the Chitalishtes of the People's Chitalishtes respectively on the admission of new members. That would be in violation of their principle of self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! I'm a little surprised by your response, and I'm guessing the villagers are looking at us right now. According to what you answered, I was under the impression that the community center has been working at full speed for the last two years. Something that we cannot claim is happening because according to reports from the villagers I have seen more than once, this community center does absolutely no business, and you are now saying that it has not only submitted information cards, but has even received state funding. Could you please tell me how much money this community center has received, at least to let the public know what money is made for a community center that residents say does not operate? Next, Mr. Minister, regarding the fact that you cannot control the control and management bodies of a community center and the admission of members, we do not want you to control them, we want to understand from you, Mr. Minister, in fulfillment of your commitments under the People's Chitalishtes Act, I quote you: Minister, I expected you to analyze the activity and say are there 200 membership applications that have not been examined in this community center or not? In this way you would understand whether this community center is engaged in any activity or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u237	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u238	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Petrov, if you want to know the exact funding, of course, you can ask it in a separate question. That wasn't a question for today. I told you there's been one in the last 10 years. We'll be happy to make further inquiries. The other thing that can be done is the inhabitants of the village of Sofronievo, including you too, you can refer to the Minister of Culture for lack of Chitalishte activity from the specific Chitalishte for taking action under art. 27, para. 2 of the People's Chitalishtes Act. Otherwise, as I have told you, the analysis and support is carried out together with the municipalities and the mayor, so I know it from personal experience, so again, I would not interfere and I cannot interfere with the management of any community center. Personally, this is what I love about community centers that they are the fruit of the community and not of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Ivelin Ivanov on the delay of the coordination of the Project for partial modification of the General Development Plan by the Ministry of Culture for the Municipality of Silistra. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I am asking about the delay of the coordination of the Project for partial modification of the General Plan by the Ministry of Culture for the Municipality of Silistra. After a further request has been made to the Ministry of Culture and respectively to the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage by the Municipality of Silistra several times, the National Institute has accordingly sent a reply in which they have included and registered the necessary instructions and prescriptions to the Municipality of Silistra for implementation in order to supplement the necessary documentation and update the data for the preparation of the agreed opinion required by the municipality. Most likely this was an adjustment, as part of the documentation over time expired and had to be updated, in which there is nothing wrong, that is the order. It's made with an ex. No 0800 4520 of 16 March 2022 Accordingly, the municipality of Silistra has followed the instructions and by letter with ex. No 902 of 14 April 2022 has sent the dossier to the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage with instructions. The latter was entered with the corresponding entry number and until now the reply to the municipality of Silistra from the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage is not available, or if such consensual opinion is prepared, it is simply not provided to the Municipality. I also checked yesterday, there is still one missing, which in turn leads to a delay in all activities that Silistra Municipality has planned after this partial modification of the General Planning Plan. And my question is: when will the respective opinion of the municipality of Silistra be obtained, so that they can continue the activities of carrying out the tasks they have in this particular portfolio? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. To answer your question, you have the floor within five minutes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u242	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am pleased to inform you that the project for partial modification of the General Development Plan of Silistra Municipality final project is already agreed by the Ministry of Culture, so that the opinion, together with the graphical part of it, can be obtained from the Ministry of Real Estate Institute. It's already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u243	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for further questions, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for that answer. This is a satisfying response, with the corresponding adjustments that the Municipality will draw up in order to move its documentation. After all, they have also made their internal government correction, as some of the things have not been implemented precisely by Silistra Municipality, but when working together and there is understanding, it is always a good result, for which I thank you, and a light job.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u245	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I guess we can finish the procedure with this. We move on to a question from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov, Kiril Simeonov and Lubomir Karimanski regarding the acquisition of property by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, part of the building of the Youth Theatre in Sofia. Are you going to ask the question, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, our question is about a property of the Youth Theatre in Sofia, which many of you may have found out about last week. From information published on the official Facebook page of the theatre, it became clear that in February this year the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission entered a file in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in which it declared its desire to acquire free property, which is part of the building pa Youth Theatre, claiming that the property was devoid of necessity. In connection with the request of KEWRC of 25 February this year, received at MRRB on 4 March this year, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works requires from the Ministry of Culture, as well as from the Youth Theatre, opinions on whether the property with the possibility of meeting the request of KEWRC. The management of the Youth Theatre prepares six pages an opinion in which it reasoned and categorically states that the space is not devoid of necessity and the theatre has already taken steps to make it a puppet theater scene according to the artistic profile of the Institute. On 3 May 2022, the Ministry of Culture sent a second letter to the Ministry of Culture on the file already formed, stating that at present no letter has yet been received from the Ministry of Culture, which is essential in view of the procedures of the case, and this has only been received by the director of the Youth Theatre. In response to this letter, on 10 May this year the Youth Theatre sent a new letter to MRDPB, confirming again the necessity of the theatre from the above room. As of 25 May 2022, there is still no information for a reply from the Ministry of Culture, and in this regard, please tell us what the opinion of the Ministry of Case Culture is, and what steps have you taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u247	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u248	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, Dear Mr. Simeonov and Dear Mr. Karimanski, documentation was received yesterday at the Ministry of Culture by the Youth Theatre. In this regard, it can be found at this stage that by preliminary protocol of 14 September 1950 in the implementation of the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 2187 of 27 June 1950 the property is transferred to the management of the State People's Theatre of Youth, which is currently the Youth Theatre. However, please note that due to the volume of information regarding this building and the fact that there are documents from 70 years ago, technological time is needed for a detailed unshakable justification. The most important thing for me and for the Ministry of Culture is that I express my strong support to the Youth Theatre by the Ministry of Culture in terms of the development of its cultural activities, and this has not been questioned at any time. This I really want to repeat because there is still unnecessary tension. The steps we have taken further are that I personally called the new director of the Youth Theatre, we had a very long conversation before all these documents became a problem. I was under the impression that we had achieved an understanding. The only thing we are trying to do is to concrete the position of the Youth Theatre legally and documentaryly so that no one can have any claims anymore, but it is a process that requires technological time. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Kirilov? To say that it is preferable to sit down and listen to the ministers' answers. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am really glad that we are on the same side and are fighting for culture in Bulgaria because, killing culture, killing part of ourselves. I hope that the case will be resolved in the right way, with the right approach, because if we create a precedent, there will be a next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u251	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. If we could see if Mr. Rashkov is already here. The answers and questions with the Minister of Culture took place quite quickly. Now let me get this straight. If we have to, we'll take a short break. It is coming at any moment, so I can say in the meantime that the first question to the minister is from the MP Ercan Ebatin about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. [[(Mister Boyko Rashkov enters the Chamber. He says hello!]] Good afternoon, Minister. Here you are, Mr. Ebatine, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you know that DPS is particularly sensitive to the rights and freedoms of the individual and exerting pressure on them during the election campaign. This is the type of question we have, which is quite in relation to you as the head of this institution. At the same time, I am a Member of the National Assembly from Varna. There are two cases I'd like to address to you and have an answer for them. It is said that on 7 July 2021 in the city of Varna, the district of......................................................................................................................... is called to the police........................................................................................................................... As a local chairman, he signs a protocol that he will not participate in voting schemes. For what reason has this been done, on what basis, what is the data and evidence from the Ministry of Interior to be approached in such a restrictive way with regard to the rights and freedoms of the individual? What is the expression of sufficient data to bring about this forced signature of a protocol, has the prosecution been informed and what further actions are? And what is the result, after all, what have you established about this person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u253	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ebatine, we are all sensitive to human rights and freedoms and citizens. It is not a privilege of any public group, of any political party, and every citizen is and must be sensitive on the subject. And there is a European Court dealing with human rights and freedoms, so that both members of political parties and non-members of political parties, each citizen has the right to respect his rights and freedoms. This cannot be a privilege of only one party, and I think it is unnecessary to point out. In the country there are also established bodies that watch and protect the rights, freedoms, the interests of all citizens in our country. Among them is the Ministry of Interior. Of course, what the Ministry of Interior works then goes to the prosecution and to the competent court, if there are prerequisites for this. On the case at hand. Once again, you are focusing on a question that everyone already knows by heart, as the questions are the same, we are talking again about a local President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, where you are probably elected as a Member of the National Assembly. However, when we talk about rights and freedoms, we must not forget that, apart from rights, there are obligations first. These obligations are expressed in respect of the law and to be respected by absolutely all citizens, because non-compliance with the law automatically gives rise to the need to take appropriate action by the competent state authorities. It does not mean the freedom of every person to do what he wants, especially if he is a member of a particular political party. There are no such privileges. In this case, I can provide you with the following information: yes, this person has actually been drafted a warning protocol under art. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. There's absolutely nothing illegal about that. This man, whose member, of any party, has no privileges in this regard. Article 65, para. 2 of the SVR does not divide citizens to those who belong to one party or another. When such a representative of the public affords himself the luxury of committing unlawful acts, he will not only be warned but will be applied to him and to what the Law provides. In these actions in relation to the elections, I would like to remind you that it is not only the Ministry of Interior that is involved. According to the instructions and orders of the Prosecutor General at the time,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So all these actions that we have taken are in the context not only of the Law, which I quoted, but also the instructions of the former Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov. I'll continue, Mr. Chairman, in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u255	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! If you have listened carefully, I have not been able to obtain any specific information about the person in question from the point of view of what wrongdoing he has committed. Nothing! In the most specific case, it was about the legal hypothesis of a member who allowed something, but in a particular particular case. I claim that this person did not commit this particularity and that action was not necessary. The majority of the Minister's reply was that rights and freedoms were not a privilege of a particular party. Rights and freedoms are a privilege of all parties and they are a priority of the parties and a privilege for the Bulgarian citizens, especially for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I want everyone to know that. Why are we sensitive to this subject? Because democracy, rights and freedoms are the most valuable thing in Bulgarian society. And it has not come to this democracy without the sacrifices that have been given, including by the community that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is protecting. For this reason, it is especially important for us that no state institution, ministry and government leadership allow themselves to blackmail democracy, rights and freedoms of the individual. That is why the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is asking these questions to understand every political party that we hold on to rights and freedoms. And as we hold, so every single minister and self-conscious citizen should treat the Bulgarian society with responsibility for the rights and freedoms of the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u257	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Would you like to add something, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ebatine, the first part of my speech has been lost in time to say specific things and I will now share them. I didn't think it was necessary. I've been in law, rights and freedoms for over 40 years. If I were you, I wouldn't ask about this man, frankly, because somehow it doesn't make any political sense, but it is, of course, your decision. As for the citizen you are asking about, it is indeed in the city of Varna. On the basis of all these documents and regulations, which I have just shared, as I have already pointed out, a warning protocol has indeed been drawn up against him under a legal provision and this protocol has been drawn up since 18 June 2021. They have been brought up at all in Varna, keep this in mind as a People's representative from Varna, there have been cases from previous years, from previous elections, persons for whom they have entered the time data that they are engaged in buying and selling votes. Buying and selling votes! That person you're asking about is one of them that has that kind of data. To be even more specific in front of the people's representation, I will return the tape a little further back when such a protocol is drawn up in 2017, under the direction of a prosecutor from the Varna Prosecutor's Office. I have this decree before me, where, literally, the prosecutor, although it is not very right to read his decrees, has said that in relation to this person there is and has received payment data in relation to upcoming parliamentary elections, note now that this person, to whom I will not mention the name, has acted not on behalf of a particular party, because he was not sure, says the prosecutor, where they will give money. In the verification, the monitoring prosecutor has instructed police officers what actions to take and such actions, as they are mandatory, of course, are taken. However, let me remind you again that you cannot ask questions to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, because it is in the judiciary and the prosecutor is independent, but because the Minister of Interior is here, and for actions that took place five years ago, we can give you information. The very person you're asking about, your chairman there has given an explanation in this regard and now listen to what I have to say. He has said so that he has made lists of people who have been designated and will eventually vote for a political power that he has sympathised with so far does not know the party who it is, but the other part of the sentence of which he was a candidate for an MP in previous years. I don't know which parties he was a candidate for. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And now, I'm just finishing on the basis of these previous data, as this citizen apparently was engaged in such activity, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have determined that he should be warned not to engage in such activity, as he could commit a crime under art. 167 et seq. of the Penal Code, better known as the Buying and Selling of Voices. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior have fulfilled their duties, they have fulfilled the instructions of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u259	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question again by Mr. Ebatin, again on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the second question is similar to the first one and concerns a second person from Varna. During the election campaign at the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in the region of Varna, Varna, Varna, Mr. Aleko Todorov Atanasov, former local President of the DPS, signed a protocol that he would not participate in voting schemes. With the intention of examining and enlightening this process, I ask you: on what basis and in what is the availability of sufficient data again and on what basis has this protocol been signed? And please, when responsible, be for the specific case, for a specific date, for the specific month. I'm the one who set this election up. I know there was nothing to do with buying votes. I'm telling you it was responsible for last year. Let the arguments have no general political character, in terms of compliance, the hypothesis of the law and some previous years, where someone forced someone and pulled, and exercised political pressure. I mean, when you answer, my idea is to be specific for this year what your evidence is, if there are any, on the basis of what these people are even accustomed to, because these people are sensitive, I explained to you. Our community is sensitive. She has had pressure in previous years, and when during an election campaign you exert such pressure, you deliberately interfere with the electoral process. By interfering with the electoral process, you are interfering with the fundamentals of establishing democracy in society, what you, as a minister, claim to work for legality, for rights and freedoms. And elections are the only legal means to establish democracy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u261	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ebatine, we are interfering by exercising the powers conferred on us by the Law on the democratic process. It's a nonsense. Then, when data is entered in police authorities, the authorities of the State Agency "National Security" in the prosecution for a crime committed, they are obliged to take the necessary action, I will emphasise this, whether at the moment, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow elections are pending for MPs. Then, when data are collected for a person who is a candidate within the relevant deadline, as the Law says, he has immunity, but does not have 100% immunity. And that is why, including the Law, I will say something that may not be very pleasant to sound, but the candidate for the MP may also be detained under the conditions laid down in the Law. I mean, the law predicts. This is the democratic "If someone commits a crime, regardless of what they apply for, appropriate action should be taken with regard to him. For example, in these instructions, which the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic has drawn up at that time "Sotir Tsatsarov" in one of the introductory points of these instructions, which he has made, I will stress again to the authorities of the State Agency "National Security" and to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior it is stressed that, given the need to ensure to the maximum extent the political rights of the citizens and to conduct an election process in accordance with the requirements of the Law, checks and investigations for crime under art. Article 167, Art. 169d of the Penal Code are carried out at maximum speed. Here, the Prosecutor General does not respect the fact that these corrective actions are directed at one or another representative of a political party. And if there is data, the actions are carried out immediately, because tomorrow we will choose a person who has participated in the electoral process by committing a crime, and will fall into this room a person who has committed a crime. These are the instructions of the Attorney General. If anyone believes that we should not follow these instructions, let them say it publicly from this tribune here. But we respect that. In addition, the criminal proceedings, said the Prosecutor General, should start at the beginning as quick proceedings. Speedy proceedings, that means time-consuming. And I would stress again the impact of this action, including political action, on the election result of one party or another. I'm sorry, you're arguing with the Attorney General, not with me right now, figuratively speaking. In this particular case, I think that I have given a very specific indication of what are the legitimate grounds, too, the previous time? The legal grounds for a warning protocol are written in art. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. And since the Law has long been published in the Official Gazette, it is assumed that all citizens are familiar with its content. It seems to me that when a minister who is obliged to do so is asked a question here, someone has to deal with the legal framework in advance. So to claim that democratic rules are being violated, the processes where a state authority respects what the Law prescribes to carry out a preventive activity, not to commit the crime of buying and selling votes and if it is anti-democratic, it is simply unforgivable to speak here from this tribune. So with regard to the particular person you are asking me about, I will read only one sentence: Let those viewers who are watching, if anyone is involved in criminal activity, should they, or shouldn't the Ministry of Interior take appropriate investigative action? And this is not about evidence, Mr. Ebatine, it's about data, preliminary information that doesn't have the procedural value of evidence. There is a very significant difference in the concepts that need to be known. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u263	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I think it is clear that there is no concrete evidence for the two persons for the particular period of time that they are dealing with a voting scheme. I can see that. It is clear to me that by the law's hypothesis, you can summon anyone and force them to sign a warning protocol. This has been done, including with me by the old leadership of the Ministry of Interior in the face of Mr. Tsvetanov. But it's a political tool to pressure and create discomfort in your political opponent. He may be dressed in legal form and you can find a way here to justify him, but that doesn't mean that we don't have our purely human and political arguments to disagree, because this is contrary to human nature in terms of justice. In order not to think that one of us is messing with you and the DPS are doing it, I want to say something else about what was done last year. Coping, colleagues, with the question of buying votes last year from the previous team of the Ministry, has been successful. And that is why my praises regarding the management of the Ministry, including Minister Rashkov helped DPS to some extent in Varna, because he made so that there were certain vote dealers who worked for different other parties. There are people who, when they don't buy them, come to the DPS anyway, because it's about their rights and freedoms. But I want you to know that there is no butchery in this matter with the question of justice. Because provided that I was in charge of this electoral process and I knew every detail about it and I guarantee you that there was no such case specific to buying votes from those persons and none of the persons who worked in the election campaign for. I'm sure of what I'm saying. And I really wish the Ministry of Interior in a future campaign to be at the height of the responsibility of democracy, because the elections are the main democratic instrument in its imposition and upbringing, and the imposition, if you will, of such a value system, respect for partners and for differences, for the different partners. We need to find a formula to respect each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u265	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Mr. Minister, will you continue with the assortment? No. We move on to the next issue by the MP Dimitar Avramov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question to you is this: in the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021, Mr. Tihomir Grigorov Trifonov, DPS Regional President, has signed a warning protocol. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the questions: On what legal basis and in what is the availability of sufficient data to draw up this warning protocol? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Questions do not affect the personal rights or interests of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u267	Thank you, Mr. Avramov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Avramov, I can answer your question with only one sentence. Otherwise, it is standard in three paragraphs. You are asking for a citizen from Montana region who is once again politically engaged with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in which there is nothing wrong, of course. I just want to say, I don't know why you're asking for a protocol that's drawn up, and you think it's something illegal. I have said many times that this activity, which is not much of a desire, so to say, to the employees because it is a commitment, and it is quite serious, but they are obliged to fulfil these legitimate obligations when, of course, information was received. I mean, under Law, the warning can be both written and oral. Then, when the warning is made orally, there is no protocol. This is only a quote of the Law because I have to answer you, as you ask, has signed a warning protocol and then you have indicated on what basis. The answer is this: there is no protocol drawn up regarding this person that you point out in your question. And so, if there is, I will answer you, but since there is no such written protocol, I cannot answer you absolutely nothing more. However, I will remind you of something that is not pleasant at all. We have convictions in the Montenegrin area for buying and selling votes. I don't want to get into the details. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u269	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Mr. Avramov, for a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps in the present case there was no formal formation of the protocol, but the gentleman was called to the police and there was also a verbal warning, as you said. Of course, we cannot prove this at the moment, but he has also been made specific threats not to be present at all on the territory of Montana during the entire election campaign, and if it will reassure you or please you with regard to it, he has fulfilled these recommendations of the authorities, but you yourself decide whether it is democratic or moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u271	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u272	I, Mr President and honourable Members, said what the result of the inspection was. There's no protocol. And from now on, the other conclusions made by Mr. Avramov, whether it is democratic and so on, and so on, I do not know where he is suing for threats and similar actions, according to your claims, has to this person. And since at the previous parliamentary control, your colleague, a Member of the National Assembly, from the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms, presented a case in which, in a similar case, when such illegal acts were committed in relation to a Bulgarian citizen, and after alerts have been made to the prosecution, it has initiated pre-trial proceedings............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Perhaps, if there was a reason for that, the prosecution would look into it, take action to protect its rights and legitimate interests. Since in this particular case, due to the lack of any data, neither can you protect it from this tribune, even less me. I've checked Montana, there's no such material. From now on, everyone could say different things, including untruths, because, of course, we all know very well that this is a political tribune and the most political body is parliament. Indeed, here each of the parties represented in this House will claim what is in favor of its cause, its party is known to everyone. But since you're talking about justice, honesty and so on, let's be really honest and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u273	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. We move on to the next issue again by the MP Dimitar Avramov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u274	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My second question is identical to the first question. In Montana, Montana District, in the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021, Mr. Plamen Veskov Petkov signed a warning protocol. My questions are again: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data? Did he really sign, or was he just being verbally warned, as was the case earlier with my previous question? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? Once again, I would like to point out that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the questions do not concern the personal rights or interests of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u275	Thank you, Mr. Avramov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Avramov! Identical question, only concerning another of your activist, the municipal chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in Montana. Yes, there is an identical question here, but the answer is different because there is such a protocol drawn up. On what legal basis? I will repeat again: on the basis of the Ministry of Interior Act. Information has been received regarding this activist of yours in the respective Montana branch and on this basis he has indeed been warned by a protocol and this warning is related to evidence of a possible crime against the political rights of the citizens. Shorter and more popular: buying and selling votes. So there is nothing illegal about the actions of the Ministry of Interior officials. They have done their duty, their duty. I would just like to remind you that there has been a discussion lately regarding another paragraph of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act concerning domestic violence. There is now an argument, dear Mr. Avramov, whether we should wait for the preventive activity of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, should we wait for an attempt at violence, a second attempt at violence, a third attempt at violence, and finally we have death cases. Should the Ministry of Interior stand and wait because someone would think that these authorities would intervene illegally? It's about the same here. They are in one paragraph, in one text, these legal capabilities of the Ministry of Interior and its employees should we wait to buy votes in real terms? Shouldn't the authorities of the Ministry of Interior do anything? Do they have to react, as there are other questions, by the way, are they very interesting, and there we will really see remarkable actions like this, should the authorities of the Ministry of Interior stand idle? I understand that perhaps in certain hypotheses this would be politically very profitable for some, as it was in the recent past, why there were no criminal cases for buying and selling votes? Because it was profitable for certain political parties. We last year, during the two rounds of elections, have tried to fulfil our obligations arising from our laws and in such a way to tell the public that we are not politically engaged and that anyone who takes such action and tries to do so will act on it, then we will take the necessary action. If I'm running out of time, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Procedure Cvetan Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, what you just said first, I would like to make some clarity. We are talking about a proposal by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We propose an amendment and an addition to the Criminal Code where no three signals are expected to the Ministry of Interior to take action in a particular direction. And what you were doing, Mr. Rashkov, during the election and yours...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u279	Is this a procedure, Mr. Enchev, or an attitude to Boyko Rashkov's response?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u280	Yeah, it's procedure. Every single person I met during the campaign every single one of them! A warning protocol has been drawn up for him under art. 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u281	Mr. Enchev, this is not a procedure of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u282	But I'm not a criminal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u283	To Jayhan Ibryamov is the next question about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u284	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My question is under art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Constitution. Reg. 91, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on the election day. In Yablanitsa city, Yablanitsa municipality, Lovech district, during the election campaign for parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 Mr. Luben Vassilev It is attended by officers sent by the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Lovech, responsible for serious crimes, according to the two officials. When they find out he's a candidate for the MP, they soften the tone. It's in the story of the victim himself. Even more has been said to him, colleagues: this is not our job, but since we have an order from the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, we must come and make you sign the warning protocol because it was a matter of crimes committed and he should have thanked himself for not having come early in the morning. Therefore, in order to clarify and clarify on what basis the specific case itself in the specific answer: on what legal basis and in what is the existence of sufficient data and not information to draw up a warning protocol for a candidate for a representative of the Lovech district? Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? I'm looking forward to a concrete response.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman and Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Ibryamov! Chapter 3 crimes in the special part of the Penal Code, and this is a crime against the political rights of citizens, where the compositions are for buying and selling votes in different options, some of them are indeed serious crimes. So if the police authorities have actually held such a meeting with your candidate for a Member of the National Assembly and there has been a talk about what crime and so on and they have said about serious crimes and I can guess, I can conclude that they had reasons, if they were referring to these texts, which are severely punishable. There's nothing weird about that. It is precisely because they are severely punishable, that with regard to their disclosure, the Law allows the use of special intelligence resources as well as with regard to many other crimes that are serious, intentional and explicitly referred to in the Law. You're focusing on what kind of data there was, and why didn't there be reports? Because the law says...... and does not say................................................................................................. It's not that you can't say anything, but they're by definition the same as content, so they're understood in practice and in theory. Yes, the employees of the Ministry of Interior are not obliged to know at any time of the dozens of candidates for MPs who is a candidate and who is not a candidate. This, if it is true that they have changed the tone is an expression of respect for someone who has been shown political trust, but I see that you are not satisfied with it either. Of course, you will do as you wish. Now a sentence in this relationship. A check has been carried out on your signal, of course, at my request at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. The candidate for a Member of the National Assembly, whom you are quoting, that we have so strictly restricted or restricted his rights, has not been warned by a warning protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. I have nothing else to say to you! A person who has not been warned by protocol, the Interior Minister is currently in the Chamber to say that he has not been warned by a protocol in the case of a statement in the matter of the MP that there is such a protocol. We do not have such a protocol and where there is such a protocol, I say it honestly and openly. If you know that there is a protocol, give some sign.. present the protocol, disprove me if you have to, I will take back my words, but we did not find a protocol. How am I supposed to interpret his claim that this man's rights have been violated? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We learned from the minister's reply that there is no warning protocol, that is, there is no such protocol. Then it is very strange what has the fellow Member signed for a Member of the National Assembly? Each of us has been a candidate for a Member of the National Assembly, and each of us, including him, has a certain legal protection as a candidate, not to sign or sign, by law! There is also such a document for voluntary signature. You know, this is the model introduced by Tsvetan Tsvetanov while he was Minister of Interior. And here he is his heir. This model had to break up because it was the change you came to power with. Give me a document proving that he volunteered to sign. Those are his words: I signed a document. The system changed, but what do we see? That leaves the approach! The Minister changed, but the approach did not! And we wanted a change! But apparently, as long as you are the Minister, dear Mr. Rashkov, there will be no change of pattern! And what I'm saying is exactly the pressure and repression that we're talking about. Really, show me the document that the person voluntarily signed. Yes, you will deny it because you said just now: "No. " But show that he has voluntarily consented to be questioned and I will apologize to you from this stand. Yeah, I'll apologize. There is no police officer, whether from a district directorate or from a regional directorate, to perform these actions without your order. And you have admitted that you have given this consent, and sufficient data whether it is due to a signal from an opponent. I expect a really explanatory answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u289	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, some parallels are made here usually, including with the revival process 30 years ago, and now Tsvetan Tsvetanov intervenes, he is long gone, talking about the model Tsvetan Tsvetanov. I do not know at the time of Tsvetan Tsvetanov that there were cases of buying and selling votes to say that the model was continued. Now the pattern is completely different. The model shows the efforts and aspirations of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and other state authorities to work in the name of the law in our country. So I don't know what you mean about Tsvetanov, it didn't become very clear what model Tsvetanov had and so on. Here I claim that there is no written protocol, you want there to be, but there is no actual protocol. How do we comment on that? There's no protocol drawn up on this guy. It is true that your question then becomes easier, I agree, but these are the facts. We can't make up facts. Another point is that you are saying that while the Minister of Interior is Boyko Rashkov it would be so. If you want to say that the Ministry of Interior will continue to fight against the crimes of buying and selling votes, I accept your reproach, I agree with it. That's exactly how it's gonna be! But at the same time as a Bulgarian citizen who can be a minister, but may not be a minister, I am personally interested in you doing as a political party absolutely everything possible to limit the buying and selling of votes that you have been involved in over the last years quite a lot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u291	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Second issue on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u292	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, at the same time, in the same election campaign, the same year He's been called, but it turns out he's in the city of Sofia. The following day he volunteered to appear at the District Directorate with the same two employees who interviewed the previous colleague who was a candidate for a Member of the National Assembly. Of course, after the removal of his explanations, they offer to sign this warning protocol voluntarily. The coworker refuses. On what grounds? To prove that he really committed a serious crime, that he was really accused, and that there was evidence that they were actually buying votes? Such data has not been provided to him. All he's told is you better sign 'cause you don't have to get in trouble. And he's really signing. Here my question to you, Minister, and I declare that I best ask: on what legal basis is the existence of sufficient data to sign this protocol by Ivan Ivanov; has the prosecution been informed and what further action on this described case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u293	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Ibryamov! You're asking again for a citizen, a city councilman. You say he's been warned. So that I don't keep repeating myself with the same and not waste parliamentary time, in terms of the face Ivan Ivanov, right, I'm not wrong? Yes, I'm not mistaken, we have also been examined at our request in relation to your question. The answer from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior is that in respect of this citizen no warning protocol has been drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act in relation to the parliamentary elections held last year and from now on I can say nothing more. I leave the possibility of interpretation to you, since you are talking to your activists locally, you can bring out here all sorts of those who, unfortunately, I cannot accept them nor can I disprove them, so this is from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior: they have not drawn up a warning protocol for this citizen either. A second example is given in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u295	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ibryamov, for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u296	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Colleagues, democracy is a risk in general, and this democracy is not for everyone. I, deep down, realize the seriousness of dealing with politics, and I hope you do, too. In times of universal replacement to speak truth, it's an evolutionary work, you know. And we at the DPS, speaking of that truth, are hated by the instigators. You know what I'm saying? In times of widespread lie to speak truth, it sounds like extremism. Mr. Minister, I don't mean to, but you remind me so much of the Eternal Amber. Do you remember, there was a tape and it turned out that it was faked in the early '90s, so you weren't accustomed to carrying out nothing but untruths? A magistrate must always speak the truth and only the truth, otherwise he resigns, assuming responsibility. I urge you, if you speak untruthfully, to resign and take responsibility. That's why I say, "You're like the eternal Amber." At least answer me this question, because the answer to this question I know: why do cyclists shave their legs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u297	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Minister, after this involuntary comparison and this question, would you like a duplicate? As you wish. I'm interested in cycling, but... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u298	I, Mr. Chairman, perhaps I should speak in a very brief, telegramically, because the MPs of the DSS are just here playing some theater, the Eternal Amber, someone shaved their legs... It is a political language, I regret to say it, and all Bulgarian citizens see it, of course, and hear it. This is the political action at the moment, and just a moment ago the sentence was: "I am aware of my political responsibility as a person who deals with politics."................and if this is the realization of political responsibility, Bulgarian citizens can hardly expect any positive changes in their lifestyle, standard and so on. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Ibryamov, I'm a magistrate. Yeah, I'm proud. I'm famous in my field. I'm a real lawyer in my line of work. I hope that you are also an accomplished specialist in a particular area. I have a degree, teaching and so on. I'd love for you to be one too. So you're telling me that I, as a magistrate, should speak the truth, it's unnecessary to say, because my actions and acts as a magistrate, as an investigator, are being checked by several instances. However, I do not know your claim here, today, from this tribune whether it is at all subject, and whether it makes sense to be subject to any control. I'm sorry to say this, but you're challenging me because you're trying in parliamentary control to use the stands here to make some personal assaults, insults and so on. I don't concern you personally. If you please follow the rules on the activities of the National Assembly and when there is parliamentary control, speak to the substance. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u299	Thank you, Minister, although the cyclist mystery has not been solved. The next question is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Mr. Escheref, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is answered to you. The same is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during election campaign and election day. Dear Minister, on July 8th, exactly three days before the early parliamentary elections 2021, in the town of Aitos, Burgas Municipality, a search or search of Mr. Yuzjan Faik Yumer's vehicle was carried out, who is the chairman of the Municipal Council of DPS Aytos, and is also a candidate for a national representative for the upcoming elections. It has been made a protocol by the Ministry of Interior for handing out agitative materials and training using a tablet with machine voting simulator in the villages of Chernograd, Karageorgievo and Peshtersko in the municipality of Aytos. With the intention to investigate and illuminate the specific case on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the abovementioned search or search has been carried out; what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol; has the prosecution been informed of the search and search carried out and what further actions? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the questions do not concern citizens' personal rights or interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u301	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is one of the typical cases of which I have to inform the People's Representation, from which it becomes very clear how one or other actions are normally taken by the competent officials of the Ministry of Interior. That's what this is all about. Indeed, on 8 July around 20.30 p.m., a signal came from the person, and I will not tell him his name, H.S.P., it is indicated EGN, the locality. The signal contains reports of suspicious persons, people circling the village and carrying various objects. It's been established or a relevant file has been registered, and I have the numbers of this file that I'm saving, according to the Aytos District Police Department's description, in connection with an assumption to prepare for the execution of a crime under art. 167, para. 2 of the Penal Code. It's a guess! During the inspection by the employees of the Regional Management Department are identified the persons for whom they were directed, by the sender and here they are in front of me..............................I will not read them........................................................... Two people have been identified. It turns out that one was actually a candidate for a deputy later, of course. No one can tell whether he's a minister or a candidate for a member of parliament or a member of parliament anymore. They checked the people, they found out, they found out he was running for MP. Of course, it is known, it has also been established that the motor vehicle they were on and started, so to speak in general, checking in this direction. It's a little inaccurate, maybe, which I could explain, a search hasn't been carried out. There's no search! A check has been carried out on the motor vehicle to see what is in it, which checks are carried out under the Ministry of Interior Act continuously, continuously. Nothing more than that has been done, but there's no search. Obituary is something else. It requires that bystanders, most often requires that pre-trial proceedings are initiated.................................................................................................................. The person who has been checked, indeed such a verification protocol has been drawn up. We also have a written report from him, but no warning protocols have been drawn up because police officers have probably found that it is not about what the signal was about and there is no such protocol drawn up. Regardless... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...the file was reported to the Aytos District Attorney's Office and on the basis of these collected materials in this examination the prosecution refused on July 10th, see how quickly on the 8th, on July 10th the respective monitoring prosecutor had already given a refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings. That's the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u303	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mr. Esheref? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, yes, that is why we ask these specific questions both at first reading and at first glance our intentions and opinions with you coincide with you or at least what you officially declare from this tribune. It is also our request and intention to cross, to remove this vicious practice from the electoral process, and that is why we are most interested, and in this respect we declare that you will meet our full support. Because it doesn't matter to us whether there are elections or not, we are constantly among the voters. They constantly put their problems, demands, and where we can help and cooperate, and where we can't, we explain why we can't. This is our understanding of making policy, this is our understanding of holding elections, and that is why I say: we are one of the most affected when it comes to this vicious practice. But how do I say, if, under an imaginary pretext, fighting the bought vote, the hidden goal is to change the voter's attitude for which party to vote and whether to vote at all, if that is the goal, is then, be assured, you will meet our firm resistance. That's why we ask these specific questions and we want specific answers. In parallel with this, Mr. Minister, we have requested documents on each particular case. By Constitution and by the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly you are obliged to provide them to us and we have nothing concrete for the fifth month. Once again, when it comes to illegal acts, you have full support, but the rest remains to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u305	Thank you, Mr. Escheref. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Esheref, it sounds very good that you are about to remove the vote bought and that you will cooperate, which we naturally have to welcome. In your person, obviously in the future, we will have entities as a party and you as a person who will also help the authorities of the Ministry of Interior so that this ugly phenomenon can be eradicated as much as possible to buy the will, conscience, political attitudes and intentions of the Bulgarian citizen. Including not just money, which is enough examples from last year. I am forced by the accusations, quite unjustly, of course, to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, I was forced to start wearing photos, which were produced during the investigation of such cases, here in the Chamber and to show them, and to publish them in the media, and so on. So what you said really deserves to be admired in terms of buying votes, and then our goals, our intentions, will match from here on out. Two. As for the fact that you rely on the actions of the Ministry of Interior authorities against the bought vote, I assure you that there is no such thing. And since you are a MP, if you are asking me about persons living or citizens in Burgas region, I will tell you that in Burgas region the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have carried out an investigation regarding such actions to buy votes carried out by representatives and other political parties, Mr. Esheref. However, they do not ask me about cases, perhaps because cases have been used for pre-trial proceedings, and some of them have already been sentenced. So find out the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. We do not claim that behind every action there is an actual intention to commit a crime. Buying and selling votes, but when a signal is received in this direction, our employees are obliged to take reflective action and are obliged something else to be politically impartial. Otherwise, they risk being removed from the posts they occupy, as the Ministry of Interior Act says, not because I say so. Therefore, there was also a case, I remind you, let us be objective, with a deputy candidate from another party in the Burgas region, not from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, for which the chief prosecutor submitted a request for the waiver of his immunity precisely because of such activity. In the activities of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, there are also cases which end with refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings, as is the case you are asking me now, and in the direction of drawing up an indictment to be submitted by the prosecution to the competent court for bringing public proceedings against persons for whom there is already evidence of such a crime. So I welcome you to work together against the vote you bought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-03.u307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That's why we ran out of time in today's session. The next regular meeting of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly will be held on Wednesday, 8 June 2022, at 9.00 p.m. Have a nice weekend, everyone! [[PHONE RINGING]]
