ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Please register. Online today is Georgi Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u3	Good morning! And Miroslava Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u5	Thank you. A total of 198 MPs were registered in the hall and 2 online representatives of the Parliament and 200 MPs. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Today's agenda includes parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 91 - 103 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, including debates on the inquiry by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova on the policy of overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and of nurses and the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria, then answered questions and questions. I'm giving the beginning of: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Please invite the members of the Council of Ministers who are here. Friday, 1 April 2022, in the first two hours of the plenary session in the parliamentary control under art. 104 will participate: Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov. Due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting under art. 104 of the NTSB will not participate: - Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting under art. 104 of the NTSB will not participate: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Cyril Petkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova. Due to the large number of absent persons and on the grounds of art. No. 104, para. The 3rd sentence of the second sentence of the President of the National Assembly, in agreement with those absent, will set a meeting at which the members of the Council of Ministers who are absent today will answer current oral questions that they will not be able to answer today due to their absence. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, and then Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! The Blitzcontrol, as you rightly pointed out, Mr. Chairman, is mandatory in the presence of the Prime Minister and all Deputy Prime Ministers. I understand that perhaps the Prime Minister believes that today is his professional holiday, as it is the Day of Joking and Lying and has the right to celebrate, but we would celebrate together. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS]] Even I bought a relationship today, President Biden likes to wear exactly that kind of relationship, and look, I didn't lie about him giving it to me, but I bought it in this honor, in honor of this holiday. [[Elevator bell dings]] [[Laughter]] That was, of course, my greeting on the day of the joke to the entire hall, but now seriously. I suggest that next Friday be the blitzcontrol, that we don't conduct the blitzcontrol today, because it's mutilated blitz control and it's losing its meaning. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Welcome to the procedure, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u8	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the beginning of the week, we tabled a proposal for a hearing of the Prime Minister along with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in connection with the case of the detained Bulgarian ship at the Ukrainian port of Mariupol. At the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday, we received the assurance from the President of the Council because you were not at the Council at the time......................... that these individuals were included in the Blitzcontrol list on Friday and proposed and we agreed not to require any further burden on the agenda by deciding to combine them. To our great surprise, however, we see today that, as you said, due to urgent commitments, the Prime Minister will not attend the blitzcontrol. I do not know what his urgent commitments are, are probably very urgent, only that we wanted to get answers on the subject that we care about and not just us. For more than a month we have not been able to get an answer to the questions how exactly the Bulgarian state takes care of the 17 Bulgarian hostages in Mariupol, because there are absolutely no actions taken yet. I say this very responsiblely there is no action taken and especially against the backdrop of the fact that last Sunday the Bulgarian Prime Minister lied, saying that it depends on the Russian side the release of the ship, because it had to provide a blue humanitarian corridor for the export and for the removal of everyone, and not only on the Bulgarian ship, for all ships from the war zone. As we had previously said, and as yesterday was confirmed once again, once again, the Russian side provides such corridors every day, and not only for our ship The point is, it's the Ukrainian side that doesn't. And we were going to ask the question: does our country have any contact at all with the Russian and Ukrainian countries? In fact, I do not know if it supports, because we in Russia and Ukraine no longer have ambassadors. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I would like to express my deep outrage of this concealment today and I believe that it does not honor the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Prime Minister. He really doesn't do honors! This question is very important and we had to get answers. We will continue to ask it, but we do not know if in the meantime some unpleasant things will happen, which I repeat: they will be responsible for those who do not take action or hide from taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u9	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u11	I understand. Thank you. I know about this arrangement that you had on Wednesday, and indeed at that moment when Mr. Vigenin made the commitment, he had no information that the prime minister would be absent from the blitzcontrol. And as I said, we will set a meeting, which will be next week, at which the members of the Council of Ministers are absent from the blitzcontrol today to answer current oral questions. So that their absence today has only short-term consequences. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u12	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u13	Yes, come in, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't figure out what this procedure is going to be like, some kind of blitz control piece by piece. Now, with all due respect to Mrs. Ninova and Mr. Karadjov, who have come here and are ready to answer questions, but we have prepared ourselves for other people. Now you are telling us to listen to Mrs. Nino and Mr. Karadjov, and at some point next week Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev, who we need. We are keenly interested in them both. We need to ask Mrs. Ninova some questions today, say, about things she doesn't have as much respect for them as she hasn't spoken to them in the last few days, she hasn't dropped any bombs that the other two were throwing. And I do not know what urgent commitment Mr. Petkov and Mr. Vasilev have, but in my opinion, a more urgent commitment than to go to your superior, you cannot have, because we are their superiors here......................................the National Assembly. The program should have them here. They didn't realize yesterday that they had to come today, they knew from a month ago that they had to be here and now they've gone somewhere because they have an urgent appointment. At least to say what this urgent commitment is, because we had to come to the Culture Committee yesterday, for example, to the Minister of Culture, he said he had an urgent commitment and you saw it in bTV, which cannot be an urgent commitment. I have the feeling that some people are beginning to hide, but the Rules of the National Assembly are also being violated because I cannot understand what the procedure is. By the way, Mr. Kiril Petkov wanted to scare us with the arrest of Boyko Borisov. Turns out he got scared, and we haven't seen him since. That's not good. Therefore, if you can call them to come today and answer their questions, it would be best not to make some flick-flicks with the Rules and make a precedent again, and thus make it a practice to do a blitz control of parts - half deputy prime ministers today, tomorrow the other half. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. I don't want to split the blitzcontrol either, but in this case, that's what we have to do. If you have no questions for Grozdan Karadzhov and Cornelia Ninova, you don't have to ask them. Next week, when the other members of the Council of Ministers come, then, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I think it's become very clear that there will be blitz control next week, Mr. Bikov. And I can't understand what tragedy is being played when your Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, for four years no one could bring him here in this room to answer any questions. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Therefore, if it really happens next week that the Prime Minister and the other Deputy Prime Minister do not come, you will have some reason, some reason. But let's go by procedure today. There are two deputy prime ministers who are in the Chamber and for the first time the Prime Minister is not present for blitz control. So let's still be correct. We are MPs, not a sitter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Okay. Let's start with the questions we have for Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova and Grozdan Karadjov. On the part of..We continue the Change... there is a question. Here you go, Mr. Terziysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Mr. Karadjov, my question is to you: what is the planned budget for municipal roads? How and when will municipalities be able to apply for it, and by what criteria will the roads for which this funding will be granted be chosen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. I'm just reminding you that the questions in the blitzcontrol are without detailed data.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the budget for this year, there are no direct funds planned for municipal roads, neither for basic or rehabilitative repair of municipal roads. However, I think that in February, at the first meeting I held with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria it became clear that for more than a decade no funds were allocated for major road repairs, that the capital expenditure of the municipalities included funds for ongoing renovation and for maintenance of serious major repairs were not allocated. This has led to a very serious and very serious damage to many of them, for which we received comprehensive data from the National Association of Municipalities. At our second meeting, which was in March, which expired just now, I said I was ready to transform some of the funds into the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, namely 250 million. lv. in funds for major renovation of municipal roads and we have built a partnership line between the Ministry and the National Association of Municipalities, precisely in order to find those roads which, according to clear criteria, will be financed first this year. With regard to the criteria very specifically at the moment as part of the question, but criterion 1 naturally is the safety of movement. These roads run the same road vehicles that move both on highways and on first and second class roads. So the safety of the movement remains criterion number 1. Where repairs are necessary due to circumstances that the safety of movement on them is severely impaired, they will have the highest criterion. Where repairs are necessary due to the nature of the damage, i.e. multiple craters have opened, openings have opened on the very track that threaten the movement along these sections will also have a very high funding criterion. For now, we are waiting for the Minister of Finance's instructions on the implementation of the budget to be published. Before that, no minister could carry out this transformation within the Ministry's budget. But I think it's a matter of days, and probably next week will start, so let's say, at a competition start, as is our management coalition agreement, the evaluation and financing of municipal roads will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Terziysky, is there a line? No. We are moving on to a question from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Here you go, Mrs. Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my question is, unfortunately, to Deputy Prime Minister Ninova, simply because no representative from Unfortunately, it's starting to become a practice thing. Ms. Ninova, you are Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs and I hope that you can answer my question, as in the last ten days the public is seriously worried about signing a memorandum with a company that, according to data from the anti-corruption search engine Google is related to Russian oligarchs. This memorandum is not clear which Gemcorp is signed with. Because there are different news. One time it's with Gemcorp "Capital Management" and the next day it's Gemcorp "Holdings." One is registered in London along with another, again connected to a Russian oligarch company, at the same address. The other one's registered in an offshore area. Please clarify, if you have such information, which of the companies has this memorandum been signed with? Also Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev said that this company, related to Russian capital, was presented to the Council of Ministers by American Embassy officials. Whether you know which employees of the American Embassy in the Council of Ministers have presented it, or Mr. Asen Vassilev is lying, even more yesterday the American Embassy officially denied any connectivity in the Gemcorp case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u23	Mrs. Ninova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Obviously, your colleague Bikov, who said it, is right that you have prepared yourself for other people. It's not about me. I cannot be useful with any information, as I have not participated in the negotiations prior to the signing of this memorandum, in its signature. I don't have enough information to answer that question. You will have to wait until next Friday and refer the matter to colleague Vassilev, obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u25	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u26	Wait! Do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u27	That is why I apologized, Mrs. Ninova, that the issue is to you, but because the issue is really important and I believe that you, as Deputy Prime Minister with portfolio economy, was absolutely necessary to be informed about the details of this agreement, at least about the company, because the anti-corruption search engine Google, which is a reliable source of government corruption transactions and practices, shows that this company is being investigated for corruption in Africa and for the diversion of 100 million. The dollar from a dam construction project. Also, this anti-corruption search engine Google shows that the company is really connected to Russians and in 2019 has concluded an agreement with Sberbank for 5 billion. The dollar that contract aims to finance trade between Russia and Africa. The contract was concluded in Sochi during a forum attended by Putin. Putin says he expects trade between Africa and Russia to double in the next 4 years. Is this question a conductor of Russian interests? I will give you these documents, which we have extracted from the anti-corruption search engine Google, and I will ask you to bestow them on Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo! (GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u28	Mrs. Ninova, the dot? You don't want to. Thank you. Procedure! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u29	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues! The procedure is in the manner of conduct, Mr. President, in relation to such misunderstandings. Today, a part of the Council of Ministers has good reasons or disrespectful reasons not to be before the National Assembly, as required by art. No. 104, para. 1 of the Rules of Blitzcontrol today and we are putting members of the Council of Ministers who are here in an awkward situation. The situation was received, as a few weeks ago Kiril Petkov and Asen Vassilev and members of the Council of Ministers did not know about the emergency situation and the force major, who wanted to be introduced by a deputy prime minister, now Deputy Prime Minister Nino cannot answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u30	I have to ask you to tell me what the procedure is!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u31	... about Asen Vassilev and about Kiril Petkov what they said, who they met with, whether they had meetings with gemcorp, who were sent to.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u32	What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u33	Therefore, it was better to gather all members of the Council of Ministers, as per the regulations, that Prime Minister Kiril Petkov be here. I still insist that you ask them, call them, contact them, have them in plenary so that we can ask our questions. Because, look, it gets awkward: Mrs. Ninova could not answer that question, and it is adequate and needs to be answered now. I think it is decisive and important to answer this question. There are such misunderstandings. So please contact the members of the Council of Ministers once again, invite them, have blitz control today, as is the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u34	And thank you, but it has become clear that they will not come, so it is pointless to discuss this issue once again. Procedure? What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u35	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u36	You don't like the way you're holding it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u37	Dear Mr. President, you said earlier that it had become clear that the honourable Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister would not be able to come, who had found an apology note, so to speak. And using the government's Google tool, I was able to find out from a press release of the Ministry of Finance that, for example, Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev is leaving today and tomorrow at a forum, a lecturer will be in Italy. Because it is also known in Google that one can find the program of the forum and it is seen that Assen Vasilev in the program is a lecturer tomorrow, not today. I mean, what's keeping him from being here today? Unless you want to, I'll pull out your flight schedule to see that it can actually come here and then fly. So he's probably just gonna be in the Treasury office waiting for his flight, but he's using it as an excuse so he doesn't show up for blitz-control. So please, Mr. Chairman, you and the President of the National Assembly, check out these apology reasons why the Deputy Prime Ministers are not here and that this is no longer the case. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u38	Okay. Thank you. Do you have any questions from the BSP for Bulgaria? From the DPS? [[There is, there is! But you're in the wrong order!]] I'm not confusing him. [[(DPS ……]] Okay, okay. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have my question. We've seen what's been going on since mid-last year in terms of inflation. We warned in September with a question until the prime minister then that inflation would speed up, that a direct cause would then be energy prices. Then other factors were added to them, which I hope will be well known and analyzed in the government. Either way, we haven't seen these analyses yet or the reaction of them. Meanwhile, producer prices have surpassed the inflation rate of the producer's prices have exceeded 30% for the domestic market and 42%. These producer prices are naturally transferred later to consumer prices, such as inflation already double-digit. I would just remind you that the Institute of Economics and Policies at the UNWE we warned that inflation would be double-digit, we warned him several times and by looking at the budget. Of course, the reaction was that they were overrated, that they were done because we were from the opposition and so on. Either way, that's a fact. Inflation is double-digit, inflation will continue to rise. At the moment, we do not see any strategy what the government intends to do to control this price pressure, to help people and businesses so that inflation does not continue. In other words, this should happen as it is modern to talk in Europe. There we are always talking about smart growth, smart recovery. Here perhaps we should also talk about intelligent control of inflation. If you can tell us: do you have a strategy how you will manage inflation in an intelligent way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u40	And thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Mrs. Ninova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u41	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! That's the question of today! That is the question: prices and inflation. And not all the other attempts to mull the dialogue today. As you know, since last year, preparing the budget for 2022 and the measures to help businesses and households, we have done several things. Firstly, a moratorium on prices for domestic consumers. All arguments against how it is harmful, how after it is dropped, prices will rise dramatically and we do not help families crash into dust. Yeah, the moratorium's over, and the prices aren't jumping too fast today, are they? Does anyone doubt that this measure helped domestic consumers to meet the worst first three winter months without a huge increase in their household bills, in their homes? Secondly, in terms of business, until 1 April the aid of the state was 250 BGN. of a megawatt hour for energy users. Since April 1 it has increased to 300 leva. For megawatt hours, because prices are constantly growing. This support was achieved in negotiations with almost all business organisations, that is, there was dialogue, there was a search for a solution, a reasonable solution was found. The next step of the government is the 60/40 measure which helped many companies-workers and workers and job retention. As you know, this measure continues now. Before I talk about consumer prices, to sum up like this: through government measures 4 billion. lv. have reached the economy and households in three and a half months to support overcoming this inflationary leap. As far as consumer prices are concerned. If you want, we can open this topic in a separate discussion. Because all the measures taken by the government, almost all of them, were challenged by one side or another. I am referring, for example, to the fight against speculation, the Commission's checks on consumer protection, the files that have been brought to the Commission for Protection of Competition for some strange movements of petrol prices and oil. May have been challenged, or at least by the opposition, by you very categorically! Did they get a hit?! In exactly 24 hours this spike in prices is completely artificially created, disappeared and the next day there were no such prices. It is not a small effort of the government to combat speculative measures. Almost all of you in the opposition here were asking questions: is grain exports stopped? We replied that it wasn't that you were checking exports. Did you argue with that? You challenged him, it was a non-market measure. Did you give a result? If prices go up, no. Do I have time?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u42	No, you're out of time, I'll ask you later in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u43	Probably, if there's a line, I'll fill in the back. I want to sum up: a package of measures that is for business and a package of measures that is for households. You may have forgotten, but from now on all those measures that represent 20 billion. lv. The part of the budget for 2022, which is oriented towards increasing the minimum wage, increasing motherhood, increasing the funds for raising a child, vouchers for food workers from 80 to 200 BGN, 50 million aid to municipalities for their subsidised activities, delegated activities and so on, free kindergartens all started today. From now on, it will be valid throughout the year. These are measures to help businesses and support people's incomes. These are the two directions that the government is trying to work with all the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u44	Thank you. Mr. Chobanov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, of course there are measures and they cannot be defined as I said it is modern in Europe as an intelligent solution for inflation. These are measures per piece, these are measures collected from here- hence, these are measures that do not produce results due to the fact, as I said, that inflation continues to accelerate and will continue to accelerate With regard to the budget, which will now begin to be implemented and will end somewhere by July, when we expect the next budget for this year, we will see during this period what part of the social measures will be taken. There is no way I can agree with you on the fact that we have overcome speculation. Of course, about this non-market approach and the moratorium, and the announcement of speculation, and about the government speculating on what the production price is, let's say, on the oil, we can also argue and we can have a whole discussion here about this. What happened to grain exports is also not to praise. People suffered losses of 250 euros a day to delay a container due to the fact that they were allegedly subjected to checks and de facto this grain export was stopped. It was released, but this was going arbitrarily and it was going by verbal orders:.. Don't process documents, then drop some of your containers...... which also goes away with normal management and market logic, so there's nothing to brag about. With gas station prices, we also have nothing to brag about. They are three leva, oil prices also have nothing to brag about, and in some district shops they are seven leva each, so at the moment we have no convincing evidence and confirmation of the the thesis that we have intelligent control of the problem of inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u46	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u47	Dear colleagues, we are not bragging, we are simply saying what measures we have taken and we are very well aware of how the Bulgarian people live and that we have not solved all problems. But I have a question for you. You personally and the party you represent are European people, aren't you? You claim that the measures that we are taking are anti-market, and do you approve of the measures that Europe has taken? far more stringent than those that take the Bulgarian government, and how would you define them? Is it anti-market to stop oil exports, wheat, flour, sugar, measures that have taken a number of European countries, leading European economies?! Is it as anti-market as a Spain to impose a price cap that we have not yet allowed ourselves to do? Not that it's not a good measure, but we haven't done it yet because we're looking for softer options. Well, we cannot say that we are euro-oriented people, that we respect European politics and do not see what is happening there in countries and statesmen who are concerned about their economies and their people, but to criticize the Bulgarian government, which takes far softer measures and is also concerned about the economy and its people. So please, more calmly, arguing and with facts to discuss this issue. Hardly the people who still can't pay their bills today will be satisfied if we just attack politically here without any result. That's why I'm calling you. In the government, we also apply this in the Ministry of Economy before taking any measure, we study what they do in other countries. In the Ministry of Economy and Industry we have sales representatives in over 70 countries and every day we collect information, analyze and do what is best for the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Of course, it is ridiculous to address accusations against the party and questions whether it is European, it has proven itself, there is no point in talking about it at all. I expected you to lean on the last thing Europe decided, namely that a new state aid framework was approved and that you would share what the government is planning to do under this framework approved on 23 March, which also gives many opportunities for response. We have proposed a bill in energy yesterday and we have announced it to the tribune and what can be done with regard to the overincomes that are generated there, so we are making our contribution, we hope to be heard. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u50	That was a second line. After all, to invite the colleagues from BSP again. No. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Ninova. The case of my question is related in particular to the industrial zone in Varna, and you know very well that this is the last of the major cities that do not have such a zone and this is vital for its economic development. From the current mayor of Varna for years we have heard promises about how this area will happen, but absolutely nothing happens, and the case is very important to the public. I was pleasantly surprised that you had taken this question to heart. I wanted to ask you what is next in this case, what will you do about the construction of an industrial zone in Varna? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mrs. Ninova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u53	Yes, it is very strange that precisely in Varna due to economic development due to human potential due to its geographical position, there is no industrial zone. Of course, attempts have been started over the years for some terrains around the municipality of Aksakovo and for the construction of such an area, but nothing has been brought to the end. Construction of an industrial zone in Varna is an absolute priority for the Ministry of Economy and Industry and it is important not only for the region, but also for the whole of Bulgaria. We held meetings with large companies with international participation and with Bulgarian participation, which currently have built infrastructure, have their factories and assets, starting talks with them whether they are ready together with the state At the first stage we have the consent of these companies and at the moment the National Industrial Zone Company is preparing the next steps, so be assured Varna will have an industrial zone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Simeonov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u55	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Ninova. I am pleased to hear that this is a priority for the Ministry and we will rely on you as soon as possible for Varna to have such an area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Ninova, do you want the floor for the back? No. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Ministers and honourable Members! The question was raised as to what are the possible intelligent solutions to reduce inflation, for lower prices. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" have two very concrete proposals because there is no point in a debate without the specific and without ideas. On one specific proposal we have already addressed a written question to the Minister of Finance, but we are using the case that Mrs. Ninova is here, who is Deputy Prime Minister and responsible for the economic sector, and it is good to inform everyone about these two ideas and to work on them. This is about the following: at European Union level, customs policy is defined, which means tariff and non-cost regulators. We insist that Bulgaria send a list to the Commission for goods that we believe are price sensitive and ask for these goods for six months at European Union level to cancel customs duties and to drastically reduce customs duties and non-cost regulators, that is, if there are quotas, they either increase or cancel at all. This will lead to an increase in imports of these sensitive goods into the European Union and a fall in their price. The fact that at community level this issue has not yet been moved is not a good sign. We find here an exceptional opportunity to reduce the prices of sensitive goods, that is not to wait for a new case like oil and then say what we are doing, but to take this decision now. We have even had a conversation with the Customs Agency on this issue and we believe that each EU country should be called upon to ask the Commission to request those goods which it considers sensitive to be taken measures to reduce import barriers. Here's a way to lower inflation, lower inflation immediately. On the second topic there is a reason and there is a real debate already and we just want to give another argument from the Democratic Bulgaria. There is a great logic for excise duties on fuels to be reduced at European Union level. You know there are common minimum requirements. Bulgaria is exactly on these minimum requirements. These excise duties are introduced to limit fuel consumption because they pollute nature. This is economic logic, but at high prices at the moment there is no need for excise duty to fulfil this objective, that is, again in six months, there is at least every economic logic to ask for a reduction in this excise tax. So in this case it is for you, Mrs. Ninova, but otherwise it is for the entire government, these are smart measures for lower prices............................................................................ we must do them..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u58	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mrs. Ninova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u59	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, in one measure I fully support you, but I say this in my own capacity because it has not been discussed in the government. It is about reducing the excise duty on fuels, and also energy carriers in general, a good measure that will result in a real effect. On your second proposal, however, we can discuss. Reducing customs duties, calling it generally imported goods from third countries, because duties are collected only from goods from third countries and inside the European Union are not collected, it can be a double-edged knife. I will refer to a meeting yesterday that we made at the Ministry of Economy. You know now that there is a global deficit for the war in Ukraine, steel and steel products, let's say in general. They're bars of steel, rolled and so on. At the moment, there is a discussion in Europe about replacing the quotas of the previous quotas from Ukraine and Belarus, with quotas from other countries, Bulgaria is taking part in these talks. But yesterday the metallurs from Bulgaria came to us and said: "We have enough capacity to produce it, but our factories are not loaded enough. We are working on 40% opportunities and capacity because we do not have enough scrap because this product is exported from Bulgaria instead of being given to the Bulgarian enterprises. I think that if we ease even more imports from third countries, we can kill Bulgarian production, that is, it is a matter of very careful balance and analysis. If we have the opportunity for Bulgarian enterprises, Bulgarian factories, the Bulgarian economy to be loaded and to produce this product, I think we should not further stimulate imports of the same products. It is better to load our businesses and factories. This will provide the Bulgarian economy and jobs for Bulgarian citizens, and only then, if we cannot cope, to look for relieved regimes for import of these goods for Bulgarian needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u60	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u61	The situation, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, has a solution, and it is very simple. That's why we said: a list of goods. You can see for which goods the price increase market can limit it by, as you say, for example, the Bulgarian production to grow, but you can see for which goods this is not happening. There are no market mechanisms for price increases to be stopped. It is for these goods that the removal or limitation of entry barriers at European Union level must be requested. It's not about a huge and long list, it's about the riskiest. However, the problem with inflation, honourable Members, is that if for these most risky goods you do not master the price increase, they drag related other goods and other industries, so do it as follows: Try first with Bulgarian, with European, with internal market funds in greater production to master the rise in prices, but if you see that it does not happen, as for some goods will not happen, then the logical economic solution is to increase imports and there is nothing scary. And if there are Bulgarian and European producers... [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Cornelia Ninova.]] That's right. First we try an increase in production. But right now, not anyone telling us, I'm starting to increase it, and six months from now, we're gonna have results. We want results now because people are asking us about prices now. We also need to think about something else, if we allow major imbalances in terms of price increases, yes, it is good for some sectors that produce, however, it is bad for other economic sectors that consume these goods and their competitiveness decreases, so, in a simple way, we give you the following solution: Try first with greater production to compensate for the rise in prices, and if we see that it does not work, to ask like Bulgaria, as a government, as a parliament by the European Commission for those goods that we see we cannot control the price increase and shortages at a level, if you want the European Union and Bulgaria, to ask for at least six months to reduce import barriers. I think that such an approach is balanced, reasonable and should be accepted by everyone. You wanted an intelligent solution, it's an intelligent solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u62	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mrs. Ninova, you have the right to the back. You won't. Thank you. The Parliamentary Group of Resurrection? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u63	For procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u64	Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, just now the anti-corruption seeker Google published photos of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, who is walking the streets of Sofia aimlessly and unless his walk is under some urgency, my request to you is to check that he has not yet gone to the National Assembly to answer the questions that await him. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u66	Thank you. If he's gone, we'll meet him. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Ninova. On 18 March this year I gave you a document I asked you to check. Since I have no information so far on the outcome of the inspection, I ask you this question in plenary. What do you know about the fact that on 18 March 2022 from the "Arsenal" JSC, Kazanlak, at six o'clock in the morning with cargo for Alliance Technologies Operations Radford, USA, were loaded 12 trucks with cartridges and small-calibre weapons intended for Ukraine. The cargo was in Ruse "Dublin Bridge" "Girgevo " Siret, and on 19 March 2022 early this morning it was delivered 15 km deep into Ukraine. On March 21st of the military plant in Lyaskovets,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mrs. Ninova, there's a procedure. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. We just found out that citizens have seen the Prime Minister in the streets of Sofia. Please contact him not to hide like a mouse in the Council of Ministers. If he is a man, come and answer to the Bulgarian citizens and the MPs, because enough is he hiding what he was doing? [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] Yesterday, we heard he must have been overdoing something... [[Reply: come on!]] To come and not hide! [[Noise and lines.]] If it's a man, let him come!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u70	This is the second time you've proposed this. I hope he heard if he was on the streets of Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u71	Now we know it was taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u72	Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for your answer. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u73	Dear Bulgarian citizens! Two meetings ago, I think, at parliamentary control Mrs. Guncheva handed me this unofficially. [[shows]] , this piece of paper, which today from the tribune you called................................................................................... I'm willing to give it to whoever he wants to see what it's about. A paper sheet with no name of a company on a form, no name of a sender and signature, and it is about redirecting one transport corridor through another. It's not a document. And, Mrs. Guncheva, I checked your signal immediately. No such thing has entered the Ministry of Economy and Industry in the Committee on Arms, nor has this transport of arms been discussed, nor has it been granted permission. So, please, let's close this case. The rest of your claims. I have presented to the National Assembly and I know that an absolutely detailed report has been discussed and adopted by the Commission on the export, transfer and transport of arms, dual-use goods and technologies issued for the months, days, weeks during which we are in this cabinet. And there is a detailed description of everything document by document, company, commodity, quantities, amounts for which these goods are exported. Dear Members of the National Assembly, dear Bulgarian citizens! Bulgaria exports, as you have seen in this document, weapons, dual-use goods and technologies, securely in over 60 countries, but once again I declare from the stands of the Bulgarian National Assembly: no exports have been made to Ukraine only in the last months, since the government of Kiril Petkov, but since 2015, after the signing of the Minsk agreements. I declare it, I am here, with my face I stand before the whole Bulgarian people and tell you: Bulgaria does not export weapons, ammunition or goods and technologies with dual use for Ukraine! And allow me to say something as a leader, deputy prime minister in the government, but also president of Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria": the firmly and firmly coalition partner "BSP for Bulgaria" will not allow the funds available to us by law, parliamentary, executive power, will not allow Bulgaria to be involved in the war through the delivery of weapons, ammunition, goods and dual-use technologies! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u74	Mrs. Guncheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Ninova! I fully welcome what you say, and I know, and I hope that the BSP will not give up its firm position on this issue. I have no doubt that such a request has not passed through the Ministry of Economy. My question was whether a similar check was carried out on site in Arsenal-AD, Kazanlak. And since this document clearly does not inspire you, we will provide other documents as well as witnesses to what has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Do you want a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u77	Dear colleague Guncheva, the Commission in the Ministry of Economy and Industry has neither the legal right that you give nor the practical right to check transactions on the ground. The Commission receives documents which, notice, are reviewed and signed by: a representative of the SANS, a representative of the Military Information (MIA), a representative of the Ministry of Defence, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and only then the Minister of Economy and Industry last puts the signature, whoever he is, is currently me. It's the law. If you have doubts that something is going on outside the law, that there is some crime, that there is a violation of Bulgarian or international rules on exports of weapons, goods and dual-use technologies, please contact the competent authorities. The Commission in the Ministry of Economy and Industry cannot carry out investigative activities. She looks at documents, judges and approves. And as you have seen from the Report, which I presented to the National Assembly, there are sufficient export and transfer permits, but there are more than enough refusals because some of the documents do not meet the requirements of the Bulgarian or international standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We finished the first round of questions. [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Bozhankov.]] Before that, you asked for the word Mrs. Atanasova. Before that, you asked her to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u79	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen and Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! My procedure is in the manner of conduct with which, in addition to asking for a break from our parliamentary group, I will call, Mr. Chairman, in the fastest way to connect the management of the National Assembly and to inform Mr. Kiril Petkov that the blitzcontrol is currently taking place. Mr. Kiril Petkov, visible from a news site, is in Sofia. [[shows colorful picture]] You can navigate by publications, that is, there are no urgent commitments. He walks, which is commendable, is not with three jeeps and 20 guards, but apparently he has the opportunity to come to parliament. [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] The photo was just published on one of the leading news sites. In this sense, Mr President, I would like a break from the parliamentary group and, until then, I hope that the Prime Minister will fulfil his constitutional obligations, even though he does not understand them, and rules of procedure. In accordance with art. 104 he must be here in the hall answering questions about blitzcontrol. Please, Mr. Chairman, a 20-minute recess on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go. [[Presents to the President a colour photograph.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u80	Well, that's great, but it's not clear how long it's been here?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u81	Novini.bg and 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u82	No, no! Okay, stop with the pictures, please! [[Noise and lines.]] A break was requested from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u83	It has something to do with keeping...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u84	After the break, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u85	Then it won't be relevant. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u86	Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct and is connected, in my opinion, with unacceptable behaviour of MPs in this House. No attempt was made to interrupt or thwart a conversation in which specific companies were attacked. I think that's unacceptable. Bulgaria's defence industry is an industry of national importance and is one of the few working industries. It is unacceptable for MPs to make suggestions. It's not about facts, it's not about documents, it's about a person who heard, saw, someone told me. The names of specific companies are also involved. All those who have some economic knowledge know what consequences can lead to how sensitive banks, creditors, partners who make deals with these companies are and how they can be harmed. Not to say that they might go bankrupt when out of this highest tribune in the country is being made suggestions with someone who heard, saw, said. And here I see an attempt to attack specific plants in Bulgaria. The economic side, and that should not be allowed in this room, Mr. Chairman, is that there are tens of thousands working there. The social element in this case is that tens of thousands of families in Bulgaria make a living in these factories, which, despite all the difficulties, still work. And if the colleagues of the Bulgarian defence industry want to fail and leave tens of thousands of Bulgarian families unemployed, to go out and say it! And if someone outside is interested in attacking and bankrupting Bulgarian companies, it is unacceptable to allow them to attend the meetings in this Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u88	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. I understand the procedure. I invite... [[Noise and lines.]] It's a lot of procedures. First it's Elena Guncheva, then it's Hamid Hamid and Kostadin Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u89	Mr. Bojankov, I'm glad you're so sensitive to the corporate reputation of trading companies. I ask questions, I don't make suggestions. I think that Bulgaria's national security is much more important than who will think what somewhere. If there is a clear answer to these questions which I have asked, I do not think that these companies have any problem, but this is essential for the national security of Bulgaria, even more in view of the position stated by the BSP. And it is you who should insist, if there is such data, that they be investigated, and not that you say not to harm the economic interests of certain companies. The national security of Bulgaria is more important! If you have nothing to worry about, I do not see any problem and I think that this issue should be checked definitely because the security of Bulgaria is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva, we understand. I really call on us to use fewer names so that we really don't harm anyone, even if we don't want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, obviously or very quietly, I have asked the Prime Minister to come and do his work on the blitzcontrol, as it is under the rules, or you have not heard me, but I am again putting the topic on the table. There's no emergency. The Prime Minister walks with his hands in the pockets in the center of Sofia and completely neglects the National Assembly and the Bulgarian society. I want you to contact him immediately and come here and explain what he's afraid of, what he's hiding from the MPs? Why is he running from blitz control and parliamentary control? I thought you said it wouldn't be like Boyko Borisov or someone else. Didn't you come here all the time? Didn't we brag that the new prime minister regularly comes under blitzcontrol and parliamentary control? Is he out of manhood? What is this coward afraid of? Get down here immediately! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u92	Mr. Hamid, no such... Professor Angelov, just a second to respond to this procedure and I give you the floor. Without using that kind of address, no matter what the situation. [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] Okay. Secondly, I, to your great surprise, contacted, however. [[Noise and lines: "Super. "]] Well, it's not in Sofia, though. [[Voices from DPS: "Eee! "]] What are you saying, Mr. Tsonev? I didn't hear you. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Sorry, Professor, for standing here. [[National Representative Kostadin Angelov waits in the side of the microphones.]] I'll read to you in a second. Let's see the messages received from the members of the Council of Ministers. [[(Replys from the National Representative Nikolay Nankov:]] Why shouldn't I look in the file and who will lie, Mr. Nankov, excuse me? The Bulgarian-Turkish border is written in the message itself. It's in yesterday's message. Anyway, I really connected to your surprise. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev: "What did you say? "]] Look, I understand that you want to do procedures, but on the other hand, respect somewhat and the fact that you are undoubtedly not in full composition members of the Council of Ministers who should be here during the blitzcontrol, but what I do within my powers is fair and the maximum. [[Noise and lines.]] Just a second. Otherwise, which is precisely under art. No. 104, para. 3, Set a Meeting [[speaking indistinctly]] to come and answer. In an unholy manner which I could afford, as far as I am not obliged to follow the procedure under para. 3, we could just have today a pretty limited blitzcontrol and the next one to stay only for next month. We are doing what is as reasonable as possible so that the MPs can get answers to current questions and this will happen next week. Let's have some respect for that, too. Here you go, Professor. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I would like to congratulate you on filling this holiday with content today. You say that the Prime Minister was not in Sofia, but a respected Bulgarian website published a photo of the Prime Minister in Sofia. Now, either one of them is lying or lying to the Bulgarian media, or are you lying?! But on a day like April 1, that's allowed. We very much insist, Mr. Chairman, in addition to your contact, that you tell the Prime Minister, who stands lower than you in the hierarchy of the state, that you are his superior and you call him to come here urgently, because he needs to answer some very important questions about Bulgaria. The most important of these questions is to say: the American or British Embassy have taken to the Council of Ministers a company that is related to Russian oligarchs close to Putin? This question must be answered in this room now, because it appears to be hiding from him. And the second person to come is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, who will be reading a lecture. But these lectures are not urgent, these lectures have been planned for a long time. It turns out that these lectures will be read tomorrow and the Minister of Finance has not left Bulgaria yet. My question to you, Mr. President, is this: you have come to this National Assembly and said that you will return to parliamentaryism, that everything will be decided in the Chamber of the National Assembly that you will be transparent. Well, 100 days later, I'm telling you, you didn't bring Parliamentaryism back, and you're hitting it hard, you're not transparent, and not to say that there's a lot of lies in this country. We just found out in the couloirs of parliament that there are some doubts about the educational and scientific degree of the doctor of your candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. He has presented documents that do not correspond to the truth. Some have ordered his degree to be entered into the NACID, except for the order for all Bulgarian citizens. Evalla for Parliamentaryism! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u94	Professor Angelov, when you say I'm lying, don't overdo it! Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, with the procedure in the manner of conduct, I would like to tell you that we have no claims against you. The procedure in the manner of conduct is for you because you had to fulfill certain commitments that you have fulfilled. However, we do not do procedures because we want to do procedures today. We want to do control, blitzcontrol, not procedures today. In the situation in which the world, Europe and Bulgaria are located, since the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers know from the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly that on the first day of the month there is a blitzcontrol with them, they cannot make any commitments for this day, because the most important commitment of a Prime Minister is to report to the people through the National Assembly. That's how she ruled the Constitution! We cannot accept that the Prime Minister had urgent commitments. When he set them up or arranged these commitments, he should have known that at first he couldn't have such appointments until noon. Therefore, we are doing procedures against our will and against our will, but do not remain convinced that it is to you. Yes, you do. My personal opinion is that you perform your duties very well. I'm just saying it because I want to say it. [[Applause from DPS.]] But the National Assembly is where they should be today. All these notes and phone calls about who was just out of time, outside of the Constitution, outside of commitments, outside of responsibility. We really want to ask because Saturday and Sunday, when we go to the voters, they'll ask us. There's a lot they're gonna ask us about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u96	Thank you, too. Just so you can ask, we will organize in the order of para. 3 possibility of meeting next week to ask your questions. Nikolina Angelkova. Colleagues, blitzcontrol is coming to an end. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u97	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is back to you in the manner of conduct. Before the break, we showed you that you were not in the hall, but Mr. Atanasov was a photo from a leading news site from April 1, 2022, 9:37 p.m. that Mr. Kiril Petkov was walking through the streets of Sofia. You reported that you have contacted him, which is commendable, and explained that he has gone to the Bulgarian-Turkish border. [[DPS lines.]] Which one of you is lying? I understand that today is April 1st and it is very profitable for you to report such news, but it is not right for the Prime Minister to put you in an awkward position as well as for his fellow deputy prime ministers, because we have seen that they are not even familiar with the agenda of the Council of Ministers, especially when we are talking about such important issues for the country relating to the signing of a memorandum with a foreign compromised company behind which the interests of Russian oligarchs stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u98	Is that procedure too, Mrs. Angelkova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u99	Yeah, because this is about blitzcontrol. You're breaking the rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u100	I'm breaking it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u101	...as a matter of fact, by offering a half-hour of blitz control this week, next week...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u102	How do I break it? Can you point me in the right direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u103	You can say next week that again the Prime Minister has some kind of commitment and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev is reading a lecture in Como tomorrow. How exactly is he going to fly to Como with the government's Falcon or regular airlines?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u104	We get it. Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u105	In fact, if it flies this afternoon, there is plenty of time to come and answer the questions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u106	I'm just telling you, guys, the blitz control is up to 11:00. [[Noise and lines.]] Hristo Gajev was the first in the procedure. Nastimir Ananiev wants a procedure, and Hamid Hamid. You've changed, please, Mr. Donchev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct, of course. I have no reproach on you, even on the contrary I refer to your infinite wisdom and the long attempt to think of how to help, facilitate, make it possible for the Prime Minister to appear here. Did I understand correctly that he was headed for the Turkish border?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u108	Once you've finished the procedure, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u109	Because to me, the news that the Prime Minister is speeding towards any border is disturbing. [[(Laughter, applause and lines from GERB-SDS: Will A come back?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u110	I may not have experience, Mr. Donchev, but perhaps the fact that the configuration in the National Assembly is such that choosing a person without experience has to say something to people who have experience, why we have come this far. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Because from the last few minutes before the break, I see an absolutely outrageous behavior on the part of the DPS. [[DSS and DSS lines]] , shoving on the stand, calling the Prime Minister a coward for me must impose punishment on Mr Hamid. Mr. Tsonev, I would ask him: in the Regional Commission, I am constantly receiving letters from your deputies that, for urgent reasons, they cannot attend the Commission meeting. [[noise and lines]] Do they not know when the Commission is being held that they should send such letters?! And from GERB, I can only turn to them, I understand that they were accustomed in the forty-fourth National Assembly not to see the eyes of Borisov, who is the prime minister of escape, because I think that in four years he was seen five times, and Kiril Petkov has not missed out on any blitz control until now. I understand that you are not used to seeing the Prime Minister come so often, but it is also nice to read your Rules. It's very clear in art. No. 104, para. 3 What are the hypotheses which are observed, and where is the prime minister informed. You're waving pictures. Yes, the Prime Minister goes to work at 7:00 P.M. He was probably detected by people early in the morning. He then left for his engagement, which he had notified to the National Assembly. But wasting the time of the deputy prime ministers, who probably have a little more important tasks than sitting here, as you have been wasting the time of the entire National Assembly since its beginning, is just a ruffian that we are looking at young people from above, from the stands, to actually see what the MPs are doing. [[(Shouts from DPS:..woo, ……]] [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u112	Thank you. Colleagues, I suggest we keep a good tone and continue with parliamentary control. First the blitzcontrol, then the regular... [[Replication by National Representative Hamid Hamid: "Procedure. "]] Why? It's that you should be sanctioned. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, two procedures in one statement. First, Mr. Ananiev's personal explanation. Mr. Ananiev, if I've offended you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u114	No offense, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u115	...that your Prime Minister is a coward, I apologize to you. However, Mr. Ananiev, when a man is afraid, he is a coward. Obviously, the Prime Minister is afraid to come and face the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u116	Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u117	My procedure, Mr. Chairman, however, is, we understand he's on his way to the border, the Prime Minister. However, on extremely important topics and national issues instead of the Prime Minister always spoke Mrs. Lena Borislavova. Therefore, I ask you to put to the vote for admission in the hall to allow Mrs. Lena Borislavova to answer instead of the Prime Minister, because she is obviously the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and not the Marionette Kiril Petkov. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u118	Mr. Hamid, you've taken offense twice. This time I'm going to impose on you for this. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Ten minutes, colleagues, until the end of the blitzcontrol, if you want to hear... [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mr. Gazhev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, MPs! Two in one, I'll try to make one. Firstly, the Prime Minister's commitment to the Turkish border. If it is he who announced yesterday in one of his media appearances from Blagoevgrad that he is going to Captain Andreevo to get acquainted with the phytosanitary measures, as well as about the food in Bulgaria, this was announced yesterday in his live participation. I hope the Minister of Agriculture is with him, too, because it is really within his competence. And we're seeing that he's excused from parliamentary disease control, and I hope he gets better quickly. After all, the road to Captain Andreevo is about two and a half hours. With the NSA, a little faster. As long as it is simply to get acquainted with the measures, and it is not some urgent task, nothing prevented him from coming here at 9:00 p.m. to comply with his commitment, to pass the questions to him first and then to be able to start meeting the organization of Captain Andreevo's border. That wouldn't be a problem at all. I hope for the future that you will show more coordination between the leadership of the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, so that these things are respected. Because it wouldn't have come to all these procedures and asked where the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister are, provided that the commitments they apologize for being here, to put it mildly, are not urgent. The check couldn't have been at 10:00, but it could have been at 12:00. The second thing I would like to draw your attention to, because we are going to parliamentary control anyway. Members of parliament here have long wondered why they have not been answered the questions. I have a similar question for you. On 8 March the question was submitted by written answer to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, No 472-54-06-972, by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev concerning Russian agents and pro-Russian agents in the National Assembly. It's April 1st. Almost a month later. The answer is in the process of processing, i.e. the text of the question has not been uploaded. Planned reply date says on the website March 15th. Neither the text nor the answer nor your resolution whether the question has been accepted, answers the Rules of Procedure or does not reply to the Rules of Procedure on the site. Please inform us what is the case with this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u120	Okay. Thank you. I can't remember by heart what the case is. I'll check it out. With regard to coordination, I agree, I also do what I can, of course, by the Rules of Procedure. I always wish you'd respect him a little bit, and that respect can show it to me with less procedures in the way of keeping and more movement on the agenda. Mustafa Karadayi, Radomir Cholakov, Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I expected you to make a remark to Mr. Gazhev, who admitted an actual April 1st inaccuracies. Mr. Gazhev claims that the road Captain Andreevo "Sofia" is for two and a half hours. This time it's about the other days, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Chairman, you should have made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u122	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u123	Because Friday isn't exactly like that. The traffic is more busy because people are going to a Friday market in Adrianople. In both directions, the movement is more busy. You can't take that distance for two and a half hours on Friday. Make a note to him, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u124	Mr. Gazhev, please take these things into account. Mr. Cholakov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u125	Mr. Chairman, a note to you. It's not a note, it's actually a suggestion. We understand earlier that you have contacted the Prime Minister, you said: to our surprise. We are not surprised because the most normal thing is for you to have constant contact with the Prime Minister. We hope that at least when you call him, at least he answers his phone as soon as it's right. Next time you contact the Prime Minister, I assume he's taking your advice as well. Because, as my colleague Donchev said, and it wasn't ironic at all, you really are a wise man. We hope that you are giving advice to the Prime Minister and we hope that he is listening to your advice. So, give him the next time you hear from him, advice not to hide. We understand that very well. Let us also tell the young people here what the National Assembly works. So many problems and so many crises have hit the country that we understand that the Prime Minister is panicking. It's a scared man.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u126	Mr. Cholakov, it's already out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u127	He's a genuinely scared man. Give him some advice. So I'm telling you by procedure, give him some advice not to hide. I want him to come because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u128	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u129	...these crises like an avalanche catch up to him...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u130	He'll be here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u131	...built it up and overwhelmed both the parliament and the majority and the whole country. It's in his best interest that he gets here as soon as possible and starts answering questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u132	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u133	Because otherwise this crisis that is coming will wipe out all the political ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u134	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. In the next two minutes, which remain of the remaining blitzcontrol, will not be able to come even with the best wishes. We'll have a meeting. [[Heckling]] Shall we move on to the second round of questions, fellow Members? [[Heckling]] Bogomil Petkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've been waiting an hour to ask my question. My question is to Minister Karadjov: is there funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for water projects? If there is, what is the mechanism and method of applying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u136	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petkov, directly in the central budget of the Ministry of Regional Development there are about 16 million. lv. only for water projects for the whole country. Traditionally, the financing of the water sector in the country has been financed through the operational programmes so far and through the new European programmes probably since the end of the year. For complementary funds under these European programmes was created several years ago, the water holding company in which the state then capitalised by 1 billion. BGN, of which, roughly speaking, I have reported here to you, is currently available about 900 million. This basic scheme of financing the water sector will remain, but along with it... First, it has some defects, for example, does not finance municipalities below 10,000. people equivalent residents, and this is a large number of municipalities in Bulgaria, I think that more than 170 municipalities remain outside the scope of funding. Secondly, overall, there are 14 district cities that have received such funding so far, another 6 is coming in the new period. In other words, this is very, very insufficient to meet the huge need, which is estimated to be over 12 billion. lv. direct investment in water networks and facilities. To this end, we made a commitment at the beginning of February at my meeting with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria and we expect the opportunity to transform 250 million. BGN to go for water projects that have applied under different programs and for one reason or another have remained.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, in April, an application procedure will begin on clear criteria that have been published on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, rather before the Department of Water Supply and Sewerage, where there has been such methodology for assessing water projects for years and it is by this methodology that they will be assessed and ranked for funding under this newly established instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u138	And thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u139	I asked this question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because I am from the town of Sevlievo and since I remember the problem of the water supply of Sevliev municipality has not been solved, and I have grown up enough. Do you know what it's like to get up in the morning and not be able to wash your eyes or a mother can't wash and wrap her child? And looking here, some of my colleagues are getting excited and nervous by a picture...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u140	Mr. Petkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u141	...tell me, what should be the nervous system of Sevlievians?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u142	Thank you. I'm guessing there's no duplicate, so I'm shutting down the blitz because of the time drain. There is a request for a declaration by Desislava Atanasova on behalf of GERB-SDSS, but before that, Ms. Ninova has the advantage. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Just so you know, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u143	Very.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u144	A lot? Ten minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u145	Less than ten.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u146	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm referring to art. 59, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, I have understood all along that you have prepared yourself for other people, but I have prepared myself for you and therefore please listen to me. I respect statehood and institutions in Bulgaria. I've been in your shoes, fellow Members, and I know what it's like to fight to increase the authority of the National Assembly. I made a promise to you that I came to tell you that I couldn't keep. I can't not because I don't want to, but because I don't get the chance. The promise sounds like this: on 18 March this year, I answered a question from you: I will soon come out to you, Members of the National Assembly, with the results of the checks and from the Court of Auditors' report you asked. And not just for the 500 million for dams, but for other things that I will announce to the National Assembly very soon. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sure you've forgotten that you've ordered an inspection of the Court of Auditors at the State Consolidated Company. This was done by decision of the National Assembly. I don't know if you know this, but you won't see the result of the check you scheduled. As a principal and sole owner of the DKK capital, I am also refused to be given the report on the results of the verification of the State Consolidated Company. Not only that, I'm forbidden to talk about what happened inside. I know from the persons who have received it, this is the Board of Directors of the DKK, who is entitled by law to receive it, there are enough lawyers there................................... that every sentence in the Court's report is a Chamber of Criminal Code. I draw your attention to the fact that there is no other case in the history of the Court of Auditors or at least in recent years, I have verified that a full report of the Court of Auditors has been classified and handed over to the prosecution for crimes committed. Usually, colleagues, if you have not followed the Court of Auditors' checks, things look like this: the reports show findings of violations and suspicions of crimes, and these parts of the Report are removed, transmitted to the Prosecutor's Office, and the rest of the Report is published on the Court's website, transmitted to the Minister's principal, and sent to the National Assembly. For the first time, the entire report from the first to the last page was sent to the prosecution with suspicions of crimes. As I told you, from the people who have read it, since I am deprived of that right, it is from the first to the last page of the Penal Code. I address you all here, but all of us, without regard to parties and colors, have sworn that we will work in the name of the people. Everyone here has sworn that fighting corruption is an absolute priority. I guarantee you that one of the biggest corruptions of the new time of Bulgaria is buried in the DKK and I address you with the following proposal: I have received, and I already know that the President of Parliament has received, and the DKK we have signaled it, a letter from the Court of Auditors, which tells me as the principal of the DKK: 58, para. 3 of the Law on the Court of Auditors cannot be disclosed data on the audit carried out until the end of the criminal proceedings. " After 28 years, perhaps the prosecution and the court will complete some criminal proceedings, which we will all have forgotten what we are talking about. The audit report cannot therefore be provided to you, Ms. Ninova, and will be given to you after the criminal proceedings have been completed and the Court of Auditors will be notified by the prosecution bodies on the basis of art. 58, para. 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Article 58, para. 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors states that in the case of criminal data in the Audit Report the report is sent to the Prosecutor's Office and no data is disclosed, which is why the mouths of those who want to present the truth about corruption in Bulgaria during the management of GERB are closed. Do you not find it insulting that you, who have assigned the inspection to the Court of Auditors, will not receive the report, will never see it?! [[Noise and lines.]] But you're contracting entities! So far, you have argued whether the National Assembly is the highest authority in which we should come to account. Undoubtedly, the National Assembly in the Republic of Bulgaria is the highest authority and I am here as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister to report to you. I promised you that we would deal with the DKK and I have come to tell you that there is no way to report it, even though I owe it to you on Constitution because I can't talk, and I can't read it. Aren't you curious and curious?! Don't you want to read it?! Mr. Chairman, fellow professionals and lawyers in the National Assembly! You don't all have to know the law in detail. Let's make sure that these cases don't happen again together. There can't be corruption, there can't be your highest authority that checks these things in the state, the Court of Auditors has told you in 500 pages a description of the word for word, argument on argument, document by document, and finally wait 28 years to complete any criminal proceedings to take action. This is ridiculous! Let's try to get out of this situation together. I must admit, as Minister, I have no move. And on top of all that, imagine the impossible situation in this report, I have been given instructions to take steps to file cases, to terminate procedures, to announce public procurement. How am I supposed to do that if I can't read it and see what I'm recommended to do?! If I don't do it, I'll be blamed for being homeless. If I do, I'll be accused of reading the report and breaking the law. That's just one precedent. Well, imagine 50 more cases like this in the country! What are these institutions in Bulgaria working for?! For what does the National Assembly function, which gives checks to the Court of Auditors, for what does the Court of Auditors function, which does checks so that the executive and Parliament cannot then take measures?! And did you know that this report may have to change somewhere about five or six texts in the law? How are you going to do that if you haven't read it and you don't know what the Court of Auditors has recommended? That's the kind of case we're in. And I am here to express respect for the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian institutions. This is where we have to solve these problems. I have promised you and to an entire people that we will fight corruption and that I will draw to you the data on this corruption proven by the Court of Auditors, not by this one said, the Court of Auditors said, with documents, with facts, with everything. I suggest to you, Mr President, that we find a way for you, as a contracting entity, to ask the Court of Auditors, as the author of the Report, from the prosecution, where the report is sent, for any permission to enter it, if necessary, in secret proceedings. Try to decipher it. We want the truth, nothing more. The truth and do our job by the instructions given to us there. As a minister in charge of the DKK, I have done so, I have called you and the President of the Parliament to take measures, I have sent a letter to the prosecution, in which I ask for instructions on what to do, because I am obliged to take action on this report, but I cannot fulfil these obligations. I suggest that representatives of all parliamentary groups be broadcast in some meaningful legal team and resolve this case because it is a precedent, but allow me to predict, it will not remain the only one. And all the oaths that we will fight corruption, respect statehood and respect institutions, remain in vain if we let this case go to nothing without a solution. Thank you for listening. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Now each parliamentary group will have two minutes to express its opinion on the subject, as it is not a item on the agenda. If you want in the framework of this procedure. Will the Change continue to express an opinion? No. From GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, from our parliamentary group you will receive support for the truth that is needed to come out. However, I am using these two minutes to provoke reflection and respect for this House, and perhaps you, with another similar case in which the Court of Auditors has not yet submitted an audit report to the National Assembly. This, Deputy Prime Minister, is the report on the construction of the Tol system, which was commissioned by the National Assembly in another term, not the forty-seventh National Assembly, of the Court of Auditors in 2020. So far, I remind you that we are 1 April 2022, that is, for two years now the Court of Auditors has not had a report, there is no conclusion, there is no notification to the National Assembly of what the delay in the findings of the Toll System Report requires! I have, of course, an explanation and I'll tell you what it is. Once again, it is either about pressure to find something and someone being branded as a symbol of corruption, wrong decisions, wrong actions, or someone seeking political support, indulgence and other such definitions because their term has expired, a large part of the members of the Court of Auditors, too, and it will be time to choose others. I don't know, I just wish we could talk about it. In this sense, Mr President, I appeal to you to assess when next week, unless it will be very busy, to listen to the Prime Minister in the form of blitzcontrol, I conclude, to invite the President of the Court of Auditors to give us an answer to these questions, which we ask not only from our parliamentary group, but also members of the Council of Ministers, in this case the Deputy Prime Minister. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u150	Thank you. Will the Movement for Rights and Freedoms express an opinion? No. "BSP for Bulgaria"? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! Yes, the proposal, The project for an audit decision of the Court of Auditors of the Montagues and of the Automagistrals was proposed by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. I am surprised, in my perplexity, how could the contracting authority not be able to receive the report?! It's the National Assembly's decision! The Court of Auditors must send both bodies simultaneously! Attempt to cover up a crime, I say from this tribune, performs the one who sent the report to the prosecution and has not sent it here, and who abandons the decision of the National Assembly. How did you send the Report for the Automages to the Bulgarian National Assembly with the same crimes probably, doubts and did not cover it up in the prosecution, and now the one for the Montajs says it cannot be sent?! Dear Members of Parliament, I propose to you next week the first thing we do to change this article to this law, which prohibits or says such a thing, and to ask again, if we must, today to vote on a draft decision to present the report immediately to the Bulgarian National Assembly. You are and we are representatives of the Bulgarian citizens and they need to know what happened and where their money was going because the truth must come out. And it will come out when it is presented to you when it is presented to the media, when all the measures are taken not to happen. Secreting him in the D.A.'s office, no one other than the D.A. will ever know what happened and will use this information possibly for other purposes than to hide the relevant violations and to protect corruption. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and Mr. President, we would like you to make every effort to make the report as early as today, as it is ready to enter the Chamber of Justice of the National Assembly, and I, as an importer of this request, want it to be made available to me personally in the framework of today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u152	And toll too. We have supported you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u154	Mrs. Atanasova reminds me thanks for your correctness. I just asked them to check on the tol system and we are importers and have proposed to carry out an audit. Once again, I call on the Court of Auditors to fulfil its commitments as they are. Thank you once again to colleagues from GERB and their President Mrs. Atanasova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Will there be such a people to express an opinion? No. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Not either. Will the Parliamentary Group of the Party ARCHIVE state an opinion? No. That's all we're done with. I thank Grozdan Karadzhov and Cornelia Ninova for their participation in the blitz control today. Mr. Karadjov and I will see each other later at regular parliamentary control in approximately an hour. Moving on to regular. PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I give the floor to Desislava Atanasova for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, honourable guests of the National Assembly! Less than seven days ago, fellow Members, you celebrated 100 days of government. Less than 24 hours ago, a young colleague of yours from the "Change" defined these 100 days as a "100 days" 100 lies. And because today is April 1st. The Day of Lie, we can congratulate the Bulgarian government with the holiday. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, it's been a year since the lie turned into a norm. The head of the Bulgarian government stood a man who was proven to have violated the Constitution and signed a false declaration...................... by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria.....................................................of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Since then, we have been convinced daily that this is indeed a norm. Kiril Petkov started lying before he got into politics. First of all, you lied to President Radev to believe him. Then he broke the Constitution and signed a false statement. Then he lied to 700,000 Bulgarian citizens that he would fix their lives with a magic wand. Finally, he lied to the system parties BSP and DB to support the government, headed precisely by him. Since the caretaker government, whose unconstitutional member, as it turns out, was this man, is lying. He lied about the empty dams. The minister of service Vezeva exposed him. He lied about the BBI while handing out money to spokeswoman Lena Borislavova in the amount of 37 minimum pensions each month. He lied about the DKK until Vanya Karaganeva gave away a million dollars for legal fees. He lied about eight billion being stolen, and in just nine days before the New Year, nine billion disappeared. He lied three times about the Recovery Plan that it was sent, that it was approved, that it would finally negotiate with the European Commission. In recent days, she lied again, involving the President of the European Commission with the claim that she herself will be in Bulgaria the next days and the Recovery Plan will be final. Yesterday, the Commission spokesperson disproveded it officially. There is no date, there is no final option, the plan is not ready for signature. He lied and involved the European prosecutor Koveshi in the case of Borisov's arrest, which Petkov himself became a cocoon witness. He lied to people that he would provide food for the Bulgarian people and did not know the price of bread. He lied about increasing pensions, and in January thousands of pensioners were damaged. You lied about the electricity, the gas, the heat wouldn't go up, and today a new price shock is expected. He's lying about Macedonia, and he's preparing to give up the national interest of the state. He lied about having a meeting with the President of the United States, and we all saw that it took eight seconds and couldn't be called a meeting. However, lying, colleagues, is not just a patent of Kiril Petkov. The lie turned out to be a systematic behavior of his entire so-called team A. The first attacker, the supervice, was warned by his partners that he was a fraud and a thief of intellectual property, I quote: "He, while lying to the Bulgarian businessmen that he would introduce adequate measures to help them, called them incompetents. "He also did so to the Bulgarian builders, who for months lied that they would get what they were doing and finally told them that if they did not want to work at insultingly low prices, he would invite foreign ones. Meanwhile, you lied about growth, inflation and debt data, and budget parameters are a real April joke. He lied to the museum workers and took away the 12 million of the already voted in the National Assembly a budget, which also lied to you. We can literally say that this man has restored parliamentaryism. His gigantic lie is about the production of batteries, which becomes his trademark and his fiction, because apparently he has a commitment to someone, and with a clear awareness that he will severely violate European rules, that he risks financial sanctions for the state and leads the entire state government to a phase of command breathing driven by limited-life batteries. He also lied about the fuels, involving the youth GERB, to which he issued sentences by the TV tribunal. The second attacker in A team, the smiling face of good governance, lies about how something works and deals with refugees, and volunteers and municipalities are on the brink of their powers and capabilities. The third attacker, worrying about the impact of unrequited bathing on natural resources, lies about the smooth transition to green energy and the work of the mines on weekends. Meanwhile, the air is dirty, the excavators are on the beach, and the business of the green octopus continues. The fourth doesn't know how many kilometers of roads he's built, and now he's seriously entangled in lies about how he's going to pay them, and he's the guy who had to make one highway a year, at least five bridges on the Danube, two tunnels under Shipka. At the moment, the inhouse is booming, and at the expense of this tol fees are increasing between two and four times. The team's half doesn't know what the cost of heating is because it pays with a debit card, and he's the guy who has to provide heating for people. He lied that the budget for 2022 provided compensation for businesses, hospitals, municipalities and social institutions. He lied that the new chairman of the KEWRC meets the conditions set out in the Law. He lied about dealing with high electricity and gas prices. He lied that he worked actively to complete the interconnector Greece. He lied about not selling natural gas to their companies for three seconds at night. You lied about there being no political purge in the energy sector. He lied about negotiating lower prices for Azeri gas. Another of the Halfs, who transported the ball from point A to point B with loud requests, once sent a plane to Skopje. The plane was on 22nd. However, the plane to his hometown failed to take off, and there was nowhere to land, and he was guilty of being mayor of his coalition partner. He lied that Bulgaria will receive two-storey trains, in BDZ it will be clean and will serve food and has not yet built a meter track. The goalie, the boy who painted the doors of the Chitalishtes, lied to the cultural figures that the golden age was approaching in art, and slept away 12 million of those voted in the museum budget. On the other hand, the single-handedly won a competition for a director of a cultural institution. The veteran of the team, the returned jadai, while lying about eaten people, sacks, wiretaps, bundles, bars, houses, lists, elections, missed the crime, but he acquired 22 properties. Twenty-two properties! Today his subordinates go out to protest to inform him that they no longer recognize him as a minister because he lied to them and there is no increase in wages. He also lied about arresting her. You can't! He can't do that either. Guys, seriously. Yesterday, the US Embassy in an official address was distinguished from the words of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. Do you understand what's going on, or don't you understand?! The Embassy of the United States said Minister Assen Vassilev has spread false allegations of involvement of US government officials in mediation of a deal of the Bulgarian government with questionable businessmen. The U.S. Embassy has distinguished itself from these allegations. And this is no longer a joke. It's a tragedy. Who would you like to know and in what way to tell you that the head of the Bulgarian government stands people with no sense of responsibility, no dignity, no morals and no conscience. At the head of the Bulgarian government, the majority in this House, including you, who are few now left, put a handful of adventurers who took power with lies, restrained it with lies and failed, trapped by the pile of lies that they have told over the last one year and especially over the last 100 days. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, within a minute. Our partners in the European Union and NATO say very clearly that they are being abused and their trust is being abused. Such a blow to the foreign policy authority of Bulgaria and to our people so far Bulgarian history does not know. I suppose that the colleagues from the system parties are also worried about these lies. Colleagues, it's not scary to admit that you've gone astray. It is no shame to say that you regret that you supported a group that promised what you wanted to hear, but which turned out never intended to keep promises, because words such as honor and dignity meant absolutely nothing to them. I'm expecting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u157	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u158	...Mrs. Cornelia Ninova to show dignity, I expect Hristo Ivanov and Mr. Atanasov to also do so by withdrawing their ministers from this government. Because it really doesn't make any other sense for this government to stay in power a day longer. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As for GERB... I'm graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u159	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u160	...we're proud we didn't break, we didn't fold, we didn't retreat, and every day [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] We're showing you how dangerous what's happening in this country is. We don't expect you to admit it. We do not expect you to apologize to us and our constituents for the insults you have caused us. We expect you to apologize to your constituents for agreeing to participate in a plot against statehood and for letting liars play their horse for a year. Again, it's time for this to end. Leave this government and keep your dignity...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u161	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u162	...of Bulgaria! Dignity is what does not only one person a person, but one state a state. Save our country's dignity and end this tragedy as soon as possible! Resignation, amateurs. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u163	So, first of all, gather in your speaking time. And second of all, limit yourself to insults. Received written answers to questions and questions for the period 25 March 31 March 2022: - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Assen Vassilev to a question from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova, to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - from Minister Asena Serbenova to a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobadova; - from Minister Bozidar Bojanov to a question from the National Representative Nikola Dimitrov; - from Minister Georgi Gokov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Klisurski and a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadzhov to two questions from the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova, to a question from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov, to a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - from Minister Dragomir Zakov to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - by Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; - from Prime Minister Kiril Petkov to a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - from Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - from Minister Nikolay Denkov to a question from the National Representative Tsvetelina Simeonova-Zarkin and Hristo Simeonov; - from Minister Hristo Prodanov to a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - from Minister Boyko Rashkov to a question from the MP Hristo Gazhev. These are the written answers. We move on to the first point of today's regular parliamentary control, which is: INSTALLATIONS ON THE POINTS. The debates are on asking the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova on the policy for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. The above-mentioned request was answered in a meeting on 25 March 2022 last Friday. At the same meeting 51 MPs from the parliamentary groups of the DPS and GERB-SDS submitted proposals for a debate on the questioning together with a draft decision. Thus, the proposal for debate on the questioning and the draft decision was sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 25 March 2022. The draft decision submitted by 51 MPs was registered on 25 March 2022 at 13.38 p.m. I give the floor to the importers to present the proposal and the draft decision within 10 minutes. Here you are, Professor Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, we at the DPS insisted on discussions on the lack of medical staff in the healthcare system and the need for measures to retain such young personnel in Bulgaria because the situation is really critical. It is necessary to identify measures as part of a long-term state policy to address this problem as soon as possible and to start implementing them as soon as possible. In response to my question to the Minister of Health Professor Serbenova here in plenary, we have heard extremely disturbing statistics. The information from recently announced results from a sociological survey index of hospitals made in Bulgaria is confirmed that: 73% of hospitals have a shortage of doctors and about 90% of nurses and 78% of hospitals have difficulty providing 24 hours of work, and as a consequence 45% of the hospitals surveyed indicate that in view of these problems they have problems with timely diagnostics and sometimes deficiencies in diagnostic and medical activities. In addition, the exceptional load of medical personnel shall be indicated. According to information from the Bulgarian Medical Union over 60% of doctors are over 50 years old. According to the Bulgarian Association of Healthcare Professionals, every third nurse is retired and the forecast is that in 10 years there will be less than 10,000 sisters if the current trend is maintained. From Prof. Serbenova's reply, there is a serious shortage of doctors specialists in emergency medicine, infectious diseases, internal diseases, transfusion haematology, forensics, clinical laboratory, pneumology, phthsiatry, pathoanatomy, anesthesiology, resuscitation, pediatrics, as well as to personal doctors and specialists from the hospital aid. Overall, the total number of doctors remained within the country's required range of 32,000 to about 30,000. But as I have already pointed out, firstly, there is a superspecialization of certain specialties and doctors in these specialties, and a sharp shortage of already mentioned specialties. Secondly, these doctors are unevenly distributed in the various regions of the country, and certain specialists are missing in places at all. Thirdly, adequate measures in the field of medical education must be identified. The Bulgarian Medical Union has a proposal which recently presented its chairman, the state to take over the full maintenance of the training and then to its specializations, and this support is bound by a contract for work in Bulgaria for a certain period. And those who do not wish to use such assistance may continue to study under the same rules as they currently have. It is necessary to discuss different options for creating both the necessary medical professionals and for them to remain in the country, because the problem of lack of medical personnel is a problem for almost all countries in the European Union. Recently, at the opening of a congress of the German Medical Chamber in Berlin, its chairman said that Germany should pay attention to the shortage of specialists in the healthcare system is so acute that there is a risk that it will collapse and that at the moment in the country many hospitals operate thanks to doctors from abroad. Unfortunately, our country has a contribution that we would not like to be proud of. I point this out in order to see how high the competition is in the search for medical personnel in general in Europe and Bulgaria must compete with such developed countries as Germany, Britain, Norway, in order to motivate the young people who train to stay working here, which, we have to admit, will be very difficult. Fourth, a full analysis of the needs of the healthcare system and on the basis of it should be applied long-term state planning, not half-steps and solutions that do not lead to the desired results and effectiveness. We hope for a fruitful discussion, devoid of close party positions, but on the contrary, with consensus, and why not a non-partisan, to solve these problems in the interests of the whole society, in the interests of the medical community, so that there is a full effective activity for the healthcare of our population. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to present a project. DECISION in connection with debates on the inquiry by the National Representative Dr. Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Prof. Asena Serbenova on the policy for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and of nurses and for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Within three months of this date, the Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly specific measures with specific deadlines for their implementation for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. 2. Within six months of this date, the Minister of Health shall present specific financial estimates for the funds needed to implement the planned measures and a plan which of them will be included in the state budget for which year. 3. Within one year of this date, the Minister of Health will present to the National Assembly the relevant measures, as well as the first results of their implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u165	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Before I open the debates, I want to introduce you to the time distribution in this discussion: There is no possibility of extension in this debate. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, for your speech. I'm writing you down for a statement. [[turns to MP Kostadin Angelov]] , Asen Baltov also, Ivaylo Hristov and Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Professor Serbenova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of my speech, I allow myself to congratulate the parliamentary group of the DPS and personally associate associate professor Chakarov, as well as his colleagues who have shaped this question, as the question is extremely painful. The issue is very difficult and I will allow myself to repeat one more thing that makes me a very, very ugly impression and I shared a few days ago that issues that are about to blow up the public usually find a half empty room. Here are the doctors: Professor Baltov, Professor Angelov and all the other doctors, of the other colleagues there are very few doctors, of course, colleagues from IHN. This brings a lot of pain in the soul for us doctors, as we rely on the folk representation for attitude, understanding and searching for solutions to problems that have been accumulated for years. I don't want to go back to my reflections here in this speech backwards. The Bulgarian Socialist Party for five years posed a very acute problem for the severe health problems.....................................................the management and financing problems, the desire to have a common sub-party consensus, as Associate Professor Chakarov said, we had proposed it and quite officially. There was no understanding, and the two-year pandemic crisis caused us to consummate the bitterest cup. To my greatest regret, this cup was consumed by my colleagues, doctors and nurses, nurses, rehabilitators, all health professionals who are on the verge of exhaustion, who have burn syndrome, and who brought out all the problems of this pandemic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. But this discussion is not about throwing accusations in the past. Not a word, it's beneath the dignity of a doctor. Whatever it was, we need to turn to it and learn from it. What we see, and what I would like to say specifically to Associate Professor Chakarov, that coalition governance very carefully at the very beginning in the first meetings before the formation of the country's governance, drew attention to the very severe personnel crisis. You did a very nice dissection, I can give you more data, but that's not the point. The important thing is to mourn which are the main places that give reasons for this crisis to be overcome. From the very beginning, I can say as a professional, Professor Chakarov, that this crisis will not be overcome in one year, not in two, not in three, not in four. Only medical education is six years old, vocational training at other universities is also long medical in various specialties. The accumulated woes in the professional community are very big, the deviations in thinking are very big. And Parliament's efforts must be enormous in the legislative direction, in support of the executive power, so that things can happen. And the first thing that we think and are accepted by all of us as governors is that we need to change the specialization system to make it attractive to our colleagues and at the same time make it compliant with modern requirements. Therefore, the idea that is carefully discussed with all of the Rectors' community with all of the higher education institutions is the uniform specialization of the staff that should put young doctors at the base, in the backbone of healthcare and through their work, but also through their growing up as a qualification to be ready to enter the ocean of difficulties of modern medicine, which you very well know...................... when you were a young doctor, how timidly a person steps into the first duty, how scary the first night of duty is, when you don't know what will happen to you, you pass six years and you are still so fragile as knowledge and experience that you need the hand of the more experienced. And that has to happen so people don't hear how to specialize, how to pay. I don't want to go into the details that they're giving up win-wins because the pay is so low that they can't pay the flats, the expenses of the month. All this needs to be changed through this single system of specialization, but also through its funding, which you have paid attention to, and this funding has no one else to take over. Whether we call them municipalities or the state, the state must take care of the footage. But here I want to tell you something that is a serious issue and on which I would be happy to hear the attitude of other colleagues. We intend to discuss in the coalition format, to discuss with all of you, with all colleagues in the Health Commission, whether, when you receive, and I would like to tell you: my colleagues have shared with me, my colleagues who are my friends from Antalya, colleagues from Athens, from Thessaloniki. The Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Turkey have a very serious long-term programme for the specialization of young personnel outside the territory of the country. Their footage goes for five, seven years, but they have a signed contract with their homeland that they will not stay there, they will return and have conditions for development. I'm delighted with the Antalya Hematology Center I saw. Antalya is a resort center in all of us' ideas, but we do not know that teams from Antalya are going and operating That is, the state here or there in the Balkans has created conditions for people to be able to specialize in the country and outside it, but then return, that is, there must be a contractual start. In such an expensive education, colleagues, such as medicine, dentistry, pharmaceuticals, there must be a contractual beginning? You get a lot from the state, but you are obliged to your country to return this love to you with what it has put into you. Secondly, what you have mentioned, and what is being considered, is not serious, as it is a matter of fact, you said to analyse, and very often you ironicize the government that carefully analyse what is happening and what should happen. Indeed, the Health Card should be analyzed, Associate Professor Chakarov, but not only in the aspect of age characteristics, not only in the aspect of mortality in the different regions, but what are they, if you will... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I regret that my time is running out and that this must be respected, of course, to take into account all the factors and to create the conditions for the state to have the opportunity not to move hospitals, but to conclude contracts in directions and in areas where this needs to be done. That is, the second basic principle that we put as a governance, as a quadruple coalition, is the regionalization of health care, which will enable local personnel to feel... You know, and this concludes that the hospitals in the Federal Republic of Germany will work in Hamburg, whether in Cologne, whether in Berlin, they are equivalent. This is not the case in Bulgaria at all, it is not the case at all! And they know very well both Professor Angelov and Professor Baltov that 80% of hospitals are located in five cities in the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] All these problems will try to solve them with the help of the Health Commission, with the help of all specialists, regardless of their political views, because healthcare has a national hue, it has no party hue. I would therefore be delighted and would like to interrupt, so that I do not violate the regulation introduced by the respected President and hear all those who will speak so that we can make a common decision which will benefit the serious problem, I congratulate you once again, which you have put forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u167	Thank you, Professor. Are there any lines for Georgi Mihaylov? I won't. Professor Kostadin Angelov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! The problems in healthcare regarding its resource provision in Bulgaria have been for many years. Looking back from a position of time, much of them seemed almost unsolvable, but we cannot continue to act in the same way if we want to achieve a different outcome. There are two main problems in our healthcare regarding its resource security. First, the number of doctors and nurses who are in retirement age and in pre-retirement age remains five or six years. The second big problem is the number of young doctors and healthcare professionals who want to work in places other than major university centers. Based on these two main problems, of course, there are many others, but we must clearly tell our citizens that after maybe ten years, if everything goes on like this, the Bulgarian doctors and nurses, those who are in hospital and part of hospital care and mainly in primary outpatient medical care, as personal doctors, will be almost all at retirement age if we do nothing today. Regarding the number of graduates of young doctors. Medicine falls into the so-called regulated specialties and there things are supposedly a conscious state policy, but a large part of our doctors, after they graduate, are going to work outside Bulgaria. This, of course, is acceptable and is one of the values of the European Union, but we have seen a good trend for the past three years that this desire the number of young people who, as a percentage of graduates, are going to work outside the country, has a very slight tendency to decrease. What are the reasons? They can be examined, but this fact that young people do not want to go to work abroad or that their desire decreases does not solve the main problem, namely the lack of enough young doctors and healthcare professionals to meet the needs of the Bulgarian system. If we look at all the private cases in the country, we will come to some conclusions. Definitely the state as such must do all that is possible, all wishing young doctors who want to specialize, including in non-attractive and attractive specialties, because at the moment the state finances mainly those who are on non-attractive specialties to be funded by the state. Why? Because if the major university centre is absolutely eligible and able to afford the funding of a specialization, i.e. to give money to someone to specialize in the form of remuneration, as laid down in Ordinance No 1, then in small towns, where colleagues work first level competence, second level of competence, the financial resources they receive under the National Health Insurance Fund and part of Ordinance No 3 of the Ministry of Health as a subsidy are insufficient to afford to pay the specialization of doctors in their medical establishment. There's another paradox. In these small medical institutions, doctors who start specializing in Regulation No 1, they spend most of their time at a large university base where they need to acquire skills and qualifications and return to the medical institution accordingly. This, of course, is the result of the changes in the Regulation, which were agreed upon, were desired by all young doctors, were supported by them, were coordinated with hospitals, with their representatives of university hospitals, but remain another type of medical institution that strongly disapprove of this type of approach. Here you need to think about changing Regulation No 1. We launched such a moment with a change of the Ordinance, but the situation in which our government was working in terms of a species crisis was impossible to reach consensus because of the inability to hold presence meetings of all interested parties. And I will set a specific example with the hospital in Smolyan. The hospital in Smolyan is a district hospital, a large multi-profile hospital, which is a base for specialization. Those who begin to specialize there young doctors spend four or five years of specialization, almost all the time in Plovdiv, where they should receive all the skills and qualifications. I mean, the hospital pays a doctor, but he doesn't work at the hospital. We had put an idea in our program that we came up with in the election. That's the idea of three-strength funding. The fact that we will fix the specialization regulation and will be able to specialize young doctors in district hospitals will definitely not decide the wish of these doctors to stay in small towns, nor will they send health care professionals to go to work in these hospitals, for the simple reason that the salary that can give a hospital in these unattractive settlements, if we can call them according to the example of schools and education reform, the creation of protected schools should consider whether we should create and secure medical facilities for hospital care, extra-hospital medical care and so on. Because this must be a conscious policy of the state in this part, namely, additional funding under the municipality, either by the county government, and by the medical establishment, so that one person, when he goes to this place, knows that his salary will be sufficient. It will be enough for him not only to rent an apartment, if the municipality cannot provide one, it will be enough for a normal social life. Because by talking to young doctors who go to work abroad, they don't just go because there the salary is very high, they go because there they have a normal social life for their families. They have provided kindergartens for their children, have a normal opportunity for social contacts, while in small towns this is missing. That's what stops people from wanting to work in these places. So I think we should focus on increasing funding under Regulation No 1, namely extending the scope of the number of medical professionals to be financed under the Ministry of Health and the State. Secondly, to create opportunities for permanent funding for residents and nurses. Three. Something that we did with regard to nurses, but I do not know how much this result was in 2021 when we turned the specialty into a health care professional in a specialty, something that enables higher schools who declare more numbers to receive more money as a subsidy from the state and enrolled students to receive double scholarships.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u169	Three and a half minutes left, just to warn you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u170	That was the right move. It is in this direction that we should aim to work to make this happen in the country. I support Professor Mihailov for the need to give more money, but let's think about how to get young doctors and nurses to small settlements where they are most needed. Because in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Pleven, Burgas there is no problem with doctors and sisters. There are them in other places where we have almost bare areas of new incoming young doctors in various profile specialties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u171	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Are there any lines to Kostadin Angelov? I won't. I'll give the floor to Ivaylo Hristov, so there'll be a little dislocation of the groups. Then Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u172	Colleagues, it is very strange that it is only now, after so many years, that we are talking about the shortage of nurses and doctors, because these problems have existed for at least 10 years. Unlike the previous colleagues, I have another opinion. My opinion is that the basis is not specialization, and the main problems in the lack of staff are two. In both cases it is about money. The second option is career development. This problem has started since 2000 with the so-called health reform that gave the state the role of only an observer. At the moment, the state does whatever it does, and all it can do is provide the necessary specialists, as well as finance them. Then, sadly, for the detention of these specialists in the country, the directors or medical managers are responsible. Whatever conditions the state creates, the main function from there is the employer, the director of the hospital, and that's where the problems begin. The first thing that is a huge disproportion in staff pay not only in individual hospitals, but inside the hospital itself. Is there a difference in pay between hospitals or such disproportion? I strongly recommend that the Ministry of Health do an inspection and present to us the results on the disproportion of staff pay. Because the state can create ideal conditions, but the directors of the medical institutions are the ones who have to realise the conditions. And under these conditions, when hospitals as a result of incompetent management are almost decapitalised, it is absolutely impossible to create such conditions. In this situation, the Ministry of Health has no opportunity to interfere with hospital management because under the Law on Medical Institutions and under the current rules, the Ministry of Health and the principals appear only one observer. Here's an example of this situation. In Varna, the County Hospital, dated yesterday 31 March, colleagues have filed a complaint for increase in wages because the salary of one doctor in the Regional Hospital is BGN 820 and of one nurse is BGN 750. So how are we going to talk about keeping the footage, and how are we going to keep the footage, because of what? Just as the manager of this establishment cannot intervene in the way of management nor the Ministry of Health, which in this case holds 75% of the assets for the medical establishment. In this situation, colleagues there are forced to work literally for pennies. Yesterday, when we were talking here, someone in the back was making noise and they thought the doctors had that kind of pay. Here are the salaries in Varna: department of neurosurgery 820 BGN. As a doctor, BGN 750. for a nurse. Shall we keep the doctors and nurses then? I won't. In this situation in medical institutions there is no financial control, no medical audit, no economic police, no prosecution and no court, that is to say we have some derribes who manage their hospitals as they wish, and in this situation what can colleagues do? Nothing at all. There are two choices ahead of them. One is to pack and the second is to leave the profession. Here we will talk that there was a shortage of doctors in small populated cities, we are talking about the Regional Hospital of Varna, in the same way in the media. Yesterday we talked about older periods again. The doctors at ISUL came out for protest. BGN 900. Doctor's salary, BGN 750. Sister's. Is this the way to keep doctors in Bulgaria? We're talking about ISUL here. In this regard, we of "There is such a people" we will urgently amend the Public Enterprises Act, which will give the principal more opportunity to control how the relevant medical institutions are managed. We would also like to propose, and we have already proposed, the mandate of the heads of the hospital's health care services, two mandates with a six-month interim period in which those who are in the situation are to organise competitions, because mandates already exist almost everywhere. And one more thing. Today it is known to everyone that in the last 10 years the management of large hospitals has been transferred between the same names. The same are regularly discussed for any boss positions in the health care system. Career development is the second. What career development are we talking about, as decades of heads of wards and hospitals are concreteized in their position? Is this career development?! What is the career development in Bulgaria in our own? There are two options - or your father is the head of the clinic and you inherit the clinic and the hospital concerned, or the second option - you kiss the barefoot ring, you become something of a personal doctor, he gives you a hospital, but not the hospital in Upper Downtown, you ruin the hospital and then you become a deputy or a minister. This is the career development in Bulgaria. And this career development gives an example to young doctors in the case of how they should develop. In this regard, I have a proposal for the Minister of Health. At the end of this month, the financial results of the medical institutions come out. I would like copies of the reports of all medical institutions with public participation to be provided. However, with these copies of the reports, I would also like to be provided with copies of the candidate work to those same managers with whom they have taken up the respective position. Let us all see what these colleagues have offered, what they have promised to the principal and to their collectives. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Among other things, I want us to be given along with this average salary in medical institutions and the growth of their duties. In addition, we propose that the Health Minister to the Treaty on the Management of these governors of public health institutions have an application to address the development of human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u173	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines to Ivaylo Hristov? I won't. Dr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Certainly, the topic of human resources is neither a new topic nor today we will exhaust all possibilities of solving the problems in this area. The decisions taken or missed to be taken 10 years ago give the results now. So the decisions we make now or will not make depends on what the character of human resources will be for the next 5 or 10 years. Why am I saying this? Because this is not only a topic of Bulgaria. You know that if Bulgarian young doctors specialize in or go to work in Germany, in France, in the UK, their doctors from those countries I have listed go to work in the northern countries of Norway, in Sweden, and those from Norway and Sweden go to work in America, in Canada. So the free movement of these footage is practically a fact, despite the decisions that are made or not made. This is part of an objective opportunity for people to choose how to meet their qualifications with adequate pay. It's a very natural reaction for everyone. So it is difficult for us, in the conditions of the European Union, to oblige Bulgarian medical professionals, doctors, healthcare professionals, to nail them to work in the same place if I can use this word. Of course, there are opportunities to do a few things, and I will say about some of these opportunities, because we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have always maintained this topic over the years. We have constantly asked the ministers questions over the last 10 years so that we can look for a solution to this problem, which, of course, cannot be only in the powers of one minister, because we expect the Minister of Health to deal with this issue. Regardless of what efforts the current minister, the previous ministers, and so on, is not solely the competence of the Minister of Health, I say. Because if, for example, the National Association of Municipalities, in order to be able to solve these domestic logistics problems around the detention of doctors, if the academic councils at universities, if you will, and the Ministry of Education are not involved in solving these problems, we can hardly boast of any success. The most important thing I would like to say is that we, over the last 10 years, have been talking to the topic of....resources..............we have long analyzed the reasons...................the facts.............. have long ago analyzed the facts...................... There are many sociological studies, there are analyses, studies of the Bulgarian Medical Union, of the Association of Professionals in Health Care, of the Ministry of Health, that is, we are aware of the information. The question is, what should we do? And one of the extremely ugly phenomena in choosing a specialty in my opinion, I allow myself to say it here, we just commented with Professor Mihaylov, is that young doctors or some of them choose their future qualification according to the prices of the clinical pathways, something that is extremely unpleasant, and I regret to mention it, but there is no way to pass this fact. Next, we argue that the ratio between.. I don't know who said this and where he said it, but it is written in documents... doctors and nurses should be 1:2. It's accepted, as far as I know, about 1,000 medical students every year, and the nurses who are admitted to colleges are about 600, and they should be 2000. Why 600? Not because there are no seats, not because this deficit is not planned, but because there are no candidates. And now the question is, why are there no candidates? The answer to this question is in the reasons that we have expressed and which commented on the colleagues here pay, the opportunity for career development, working conditions, the psycho-climate in the different clinical units and so on and things that we know about them. The question is, however, can we regionalize medicine, as has been said here, which is extremely important? We can, but without the help of the National Association of Municipalities, we can't do that. Because back in the day, when the medical staff distributed them, here some colleagues remember, the municipalities offered them homes, offered them kindergartens, offered them, if you will, and transport. I know, there were ambulances providing years ago. Once again, with the efforts of one office won't work. There must be an institutional approach. And what do I mean by institutional approach? Is it possible, dear Minister, and I will end this because we don't have much time, there is a single structure, whether it be a directorate, an agency or whatever, which, based on the multidisciplinary approach, will try to solve this problem and be responsible for this institution solving the problem? Because now the responsibilities are messed up, the directors of the health care facilities, the RHIs, the RHIF, the Ministry of Health, and we end up with this result. Once again, the multidisciplinary approach, responsibility, institutionalisation of responsibility in my opinion is the key to solving the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines to Hassan Ademov? I won't. Associate Professor Anton Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! I take the floor on this very interesting question, asked by my colleague associate associate associate Professor Chakarov, and as a doctor, and as the youngest of my colleagues, I may be the closest to the problems of young doctors, as I have soon had to take their steps and face their problems. For me, one of the main problems that perhaps no one will dare to say from this tribune is that we must first admit that in the last ten years there has always been an increase in funds. With little, with many rulers so far, they have always found a way in some way to stimulate young doctors financially, and from the current point of view, we can say that this has not solved any of the problems. In order to improve the condition of young doctors and reverse this unfavorable trend, unfortunately, it is seen with even greater strength in health care professionals or so-called nurses, we must first be able to tell exactly what the real problems are. Without underestimating any of the views of the previous speakers, only Dr. Ivaylo Hristov, from my point of view, has somehow managed to open the notebook with the real problems. No matter how much money we put as bait in front of young doctors when they enter an institution and receive a specialization, though well paid, where there is a pre-set order for who will work, who will train, who will write only epicrises and trails, no matter how much money we give to this young doctor, he will last six months there and go to a hospital where someone will pay attention and teach him something. In the past there was an idea of course, quite theoretically prepared, to train residents in just a few selected hospitals, so-called university, in which is the highest level of both treatment and teaching. I've watched wards with ten residents, where one or two residents actually work, the rest watch, as they say in some places, the match up close. There are many accumulated problems that need to be mentioned precisely and with a series of reforms, some of which are legal, some of which in the hands of the executive authority, as we mentioned, Ordinance No 1, previously Regulation No 35 is the production of the executive power, and to do so by recognising these problems without worrying that we will insult some of our friends, colleagues or teachers, to make the specialization of young doctors in Bulgaria different. We're going to hear a lot of terms here, more attractive, better paid, but we have to make it different, we have to make it more massive. Why? As you mentioned, I think that Dr. Ademov just now, the European Union and rather its labour market in the sector will not disappear, it will continue to be a strong competition and a strong attractive position for our young doctors. And that's probably part of the good stuff, because if we didn't have this pull force, we'd still be thinking from 1995 or 2000 and believing in some postulates that we should only work in one hospital, with one person and serve his interests for the greater part of our career. Unfortunately, on the ground these postulates are still being taught and the basic rules of conduct and career growth are on them. If you follow these unwritten rules, you grow in your career no matter what you can and how much you can. We should be able to write from this tribune, and in a series of several, say, round tables or just work meetings to write and recognize what are the real problems in career growth and career motivation. Of course, financial support is mandatory, but opening up the system for me is an idea more important. The opening of the system, where every young doctor has a place of work with a sufficient number of patients, where under the control of a more experienced one can work from the first days of his residency. For example, in Germany, they give you a laparoscopic camera on day two, and you start pointing at the camera during laparoscopic surgery without anyone holding you for a year to write documents or any other detail like that. In this case, competition will show us that we fail to do well and have failed to do well with the creation of a product, a young doctor, which is one of the problems, and we are not doing well to keep it. Because if a young doctor needs to learn and become stable and sustainable in his profession, a young specialist needs to see his career path ahead of him within five or ten years, and that along with fair funding to be part of his motivation to stay, to make his patientele and his own name and start earning from them. Minister Serbenova and I have identified several such future workshops and groups in which, by opening Decree No 1, but not only, the necessary changes in view and opening laws, such as the Law on Medical Institutions, the Law on Public Enterprises, the improvement of certain regulations, because these changes, as you said, we will see their positive results in time. And this time should be used for mediation where we explain to our young colleagues what is about to happen and show what our actions have made this thing happen. The work will in any case be overparty, in any case it will be a common case, because the health and the future of the health of our entire country is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u177	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Are there any lines to Anton Tonev? I won't. Now I give the floor to Dr. Alexander Simidchiev so that we can have representatives of different groups. Otherwise I've recorded for speech both Asen Baltov and Mario Rangelov. [[Noise and lines.]] And you, yes. I'll give you the floor, just to have from different groups. [[DPS lines.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. Okay, I meant you, I'm sorry. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u178	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I really enjoyed listening to everyone who's spoken so far, because everyone was trying to contribute something. Party biases were quite low, there were predominantly constructive, albeit diverse points of view. This problem of personnel security is one of the most complex to solve in our health system, but what I want to add as a point of view is this: We've been talking about what it is and what it was. We didn't think much about what it would be like, because healthcare from now on has a lot to change, and the specialists who will have to be made from here on can be quite different from those who have been. There may be a very different mix, which Dr. Ademov also said, between social and health activities, i.e. the specialists we need to do in the future, will have to be people who have a much heavier profile related to prevention and prevention, will have to have a profile much more severely linked to digitalization, that is, we may not have such specialists at the moment, and we should create such specialists. I would like to say that this is a problem in which I see an enormous potential to solve it, because all the speakers so far were people who spoke on the basis of experience with their point of view and contributed to solving the problem, and it was not interparty fighting. In this regard, I am hopeful and hopeful that we can build a sustainable system so that we or others like us in the Forty-nineth and the Fiftyth National Assembly do not return to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u179	Thank you, Doctor. Are there any lines to Alexander Simidchiev? I won't. Professor Asen Baltov for speech. [[Reply from the National Representative Assen Baltov.]] You have almost three minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I'm just gonna take a few moments. Indeed, the review by colleagues has been done quite seriously, and I am absolutely of the same opinion that, unfortunately, medicine is convertible around the world and we have to take this into account. Our colleagues, who graduate from medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, are also convertible and are welcome everywhere - not only in Bulgaria, so "subsidize 100% of the missing specialties, i.e. those who are few. You have to make an index which specialties are most sought after and which are less sought after. Those who are most wanted there must be a binding contract for at least five years. I mean, if you want to specialize in orthopedics and trauma, because it's one of the most wanted majors, you're gonna have to sign a five-year contract at some training facility for that specialty. As for example, as far as an injectioner is concerned, which we know has become very popular over the past two years, but before that we know how it was with a desiccant function, there should really be 100% subsidization for this specialty. The work you allow to do, by specializing, may be possible not only when you are working, i.e. in order to start specializing, it should not be necessary for you to be only working as a resident in a university or district hospital, but also to be allowed in smaller hospitals to have such residents who do not need to attend from one year... eight to ten months in the major university hospital, but, on the contrary, to go on a one-month course, as it was when we were obliged. I am also of the generation that we were not obliged to do, but before my generation everyone was obliged to have a three-year distribution, that is, we allow these people to work in their main place of employment and once, twice a year, to be able to make an update specialization, and then finally to the time needed for specialization, they take a specialty exam. The other thing nobody said is that 365 hospitals are too much for Bulgaria. It's a fact. If this does not change, this really should have a common consensus between all political parties and forces that it is too much for small Bulgaria. We've forgotten some people who have been trying to get into our circles for a long time. They're paramedics. We know that we have a huge missing link here, which, unfortunately, could fill in a lot of the missing ones. Paramedics, we know that they are three levels of competence. The paramedics third level of competence, it is possible to be in helicopters and ambulances, and to replace doctors and nurses and those we know we have a huge deficit on them. Health assistants, too, not least to assist nurses and... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u181	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u182	Practice shows that all who study medicine, whether they are doctors or nurses, if they have the opportunity to work after a second and a third year, they could start working, get a salary and assist the work of missing units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u183	Thank you, Professor. Are there any lines to Asen Baltov? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Gkozdeykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u184	My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman. Half an hour ago you allowed the word to be used repeatedly in a very long string of lies spoken by Mrs. Desislava Atanasova, and once we have the lying shepherd in the Chamber, it deserves a real remark, Mr. President. We heard from GERB's parliamentary group that they want an apology. In fact, they owe us all an apology, ladies and gentlemen! The previous managers owe an apology for these almost 12 years that they should first apologize for Matta Hari. An apology for the bars, an apology for the house in Barcelona, an apology for the house in Barcelona. [[DPS lines: "This is a declaration!"]] , an apology for the falling highways, for the roads on which so many lives were lost, an apology for the beaten students photographed under the columns of the Council of Ministers, an apology for the thousands of gassed protesters, an apology for the bugged citizens, an apology for the deeply rooted corruption, honourable ladies and gentlemen, an apology for the Russian pipe built with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, an excuse for the lack of gas connection with Greece, an apology for a total lack of strategy in energy, education, defence and so on, an excuse for the miserable pensioners, an excuse for the bankrupt small and medium-sized business. You owe a huge apology to every Bulgarian citizen. Dear Mr. President, I ask you very much that when this tribune is broadcast literally and lies are spoken, that you take attention and take part in your role. Thank you. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Replica from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov: "Procedure. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u185	Thank you, Mr. Gkozdeykov. Your procedure is justified. I appeal to everyone to observe a good tone both within the procedures and within the framework of the declarations. Even if you don't agree with your political opponents, that's no reason to always accuse ourselves of lying. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] You don't have time for the procedure group. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] He can't. He's coming in, too. I'm sorry, Mr. Nenkov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Yuseyin Weyselov. Here you go, Mr. Weyselov. I'm sorry I misspelled your name earlier. And when I said no offenses, it also applies to the discussions from the place, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u186	Thanks for the word, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If I may, I will speak for young people, so to speak, who do not have much experience in the field of health. If you recall, Madam Minister, I in the first blitzcontrol during the Health Commission asked you the following question: what are your most important priorities during this term that you need to implement? You replied to me that the first priority is for the electronic file and the second priority is to solve the medical staff problem. This problem is not from today, it was not, and when a species of crisis came, this problem has been for many years. I am aware that to solve this problem, it will cost us a lot of effort, but the time we have now is quite short. As hospitals have announced, there is currently 70% deficit in doctors and about 90% deficit in nurses, every minute is quite important to us. In my opinion, Madam Minister, and from my conversations with young health professionals, the biggest problem, the main problem is pay. Do you know what a student thinks? One student accepting him in some specialty related to medicine, after graduation he has already appointed himself to develop in another European state because of two facts: one fact is good pay, the other fact is that there are very good conditions. I have a suggestion. In my opinion, according to my humble experience, the first step to be taken is to make these students, these young people who graduate, know that once they start working, it doesn't matter whether, as nurses, as doctors, as rehabilitators, as medical assistants and so on, to start with a good pay. In this regard, my proposal to you is: this money that was given under art. 5 of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, to stay to their salaries and if possible to double, because another would be the thinking of a young person, if it started with a salary of about 1500.. 1600 BGN, and consequently to increase this salary. Again, this problem is quite serious, we don't have much time, because in a few years we may have a health system crash and start shutting down medical facilities, hospitals. So, Madam Minister, I would like to hear your opinion and what you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u187	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Are there any lines to Yussain Weyselov? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Nikolai Drenchev, come on in. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be shorter. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, we have heard nice words from the doctors and so a great deal of thinking in one direction on all sides of the Chamber. But I have one reproach for the other colleagues and myself included. We are patients, and the whole system should actually be done not in the interests of doctors, but in the interests of patients. And what is happening is that we see a professional arrogance in terms of results not only in terms of patients, but even others working in the system on nurses' attitude, on the attitude of all kinds of medical professionals. From this point of view, I believe that reforming the system affects much more words and especially all of us, including, of course, doctors, but not only. First of all, financiers, because we see a highly vicious system of funding that shifts the patient from the focus of attention to doctors and sets the provisions of the Health Insurance Fund and the methods and pathways in which money is used. The patient is not at the center of attention. Its needs and needs remain on the sidelines, and the most important remains how to use the relevant clinical path. In addition to the vicious funding, besides the problem of training, the entire system is at fault and in insufficient attention in all directions.... to both emergency aid and hospital care and prevention. These are things that will be great if our specialists, our doctors are involved and organizing them, but they must do so under a careful and strict control of the whole society, of all the MPs, because we are all patients and cannot leave the system alone and only in the hands of those who make money out of it, who, with all due respect to the Hippocratic oaths, look to some extent little or much through the prism of their interest. In this regard, we must help them and we must do so that in the system at the heart of attention this is the health of the patient, the health of our children, the health of our parents and prevention and hospital care, and everything else that benefits the people, not just what makes money on a clinical path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u189	And thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Is there a line to Nikolai Drenchev? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. Madam Minister, would you like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank Professor Chakarov for putting this important topic, which, as we have seen from the discussions, is not only within the competence of the Ministry of Health and I would like to develop a concept of how to keep and not just the young, all doctors in Bulgaria, nurses. I thank Professor Baltov for mentioning the word "pharmacies" as you know that there are no pharmacies and therefore access to pharmaceutical care in Bulgaria, to put it on a consensus level, above party level, which you have actually done just now and despite the last lines, really in the center of this system should be the patient. No doubt guided by the interests of the patient because patient centered systems are supportive, humane and patients are empowered. This means, however, before they are empowered, in an appropriate manner and in a health-informed manner. In these systems, the consultations and advice of doctors and pharmacists are followed accordingly, assisted in the treatment and there is absolute traceability of what is happening. And that is why, in Mr. Weyselov's reply, when I was asked during the blitzcontrol, said these two main priorities: the problem of personnel and e-health, because they go hand in hand. Human resources, however, are basic, without underestimated the remaining infrastructure, the main active element of each active system, because they manage the other resources. Here, several times, questions about the financial management of medical institutions have been raised, about fair or unfair distribution of remuneration, because the state can actually create conditions, but it cannot create all the necessary conditions and it is also important the role of the head of the hospital's hospital for providing a fair payment. What I would like to do in the following weeks, based on the discussions that took place here, is indeed a larger interdepartmental working group in which not only the Ministry of Health, of course, we do not give up a leading and central role, but also the Ministry of Education, as the question of admission of students, the Ministry of Finance, was raised. Thank you, I don't remember who said it, I think Professor Tonev used the word common cause. This is a common case, and this has been seen by these discussions, and I thank you very much for the constructive tone to find all together a lasting solution that from now on starts on a solid foundation, but of course, and those after us to continue it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u191	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I will propose an editorial proposal in the Draft Decision in points 1, 2 and 3. The words "the present date' shall be replaced by "the date of adoption of this Decision' in points 1, 2 and 3 of the first row of each of the points. Instead of the date of adoption of this Decision, the date of adoption of this Decision. There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. There's a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal that the three separate points be voted on point by point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u193	We've suspended the discussion. I ask the MPs outside the Chamber to come in. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to vote on the three points separately. Voting mode. Colleagues online: Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u195	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u197	Vote 148 MPs in the Chamber plus 2 online "150": for 131 in the Chamber and 2 online " 133" in total, against 15, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. First of all, I put to the vote the editorial proposal that I have made, namely: in each of the three points in the operative part of the draft decision, the date of adoption of this Decision. That's good enough for me. The Three Anblocs. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u199	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u201	They voted 147 MPs in the House plus 2 online The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. Now I'm going to read you the whole solution with the already adopted editorial amendment: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with debates on the inquiry by the National Representative Dr. Dzhevjet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Prof. Asena Serbenova on the policy of the government to overcome the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and to detain young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Within three months from the date of adoption of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly specific measures with specific deadlines for their implementation for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. 2. Within six months of the date of adoption of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall submit specific financial estimates for the funds necessary for the implementation of the planned measures and a plan which of them will be included in the state budget and for what year. 3. Within one year from the date of adoption of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly the relevant measures, as well as the first results of their implementation. First of all, I put to the vote the text of That's plus the word "Rest" and then we'll start with the dots. Voting mode. Colleagues online: Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u203	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u205	They voted 146 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. 148: for 146 in the House and 2 online. The motion is accepted. We move on to point one of the operatives, namely: Within three months of the date of adoption of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly specific measures with specific deadlines for their implementation for overcoming the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and for the detention of young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. Voting mode. Colleagues online: Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u207	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u209	They voted 146 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. 148: for 146 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 148 total, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on item two: Within six months of the date of adoption of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall submit specific financial estimates of the funds necessary for the implementation of the planned measures and a plan which of them will be included in the State budget for which year. Please vote regime. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u210	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u211	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u212	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u213	They voted 145 MPs in the House plus 2 online " 147" total: 48, none, 97 abstentions in the House plus 2 online "99" total. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on item three, which, if adopted, will be item two: Within one year from the date of adoption of this Decision, the Minister of Health shall present to the National Assembly the relevant measures, as well as the first results of their implementation. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u214	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u215	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u216	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u217	They voted 147 MPs plus 2 online.. 149 total: 41, none, 106 abstentions in the Chamber and two online.. 108 total. The offer is not accepted. We're done with that... [[(Noise and lines from DPS:]] Okay, re-vote. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u218	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u219	And Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u220	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u221	Thank you. They voted 147 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. 149: for 45, not against, abstention 102 in the House plus 2 online... 104. The offer is not accepted. With this, we have exhausted the debate and the Project. Here you are, Associate Professor Tonev, for a declaration and then we move on to the issues of parliamentary control to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Professor Serbenova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As of today, all mandatory restrictive measures are dropped, although it is too early to be truly happy, although it is early to claim that the pandemic is in history, we can congratulate ourselves. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] The national operational plan for dealing with COVID-19 has worked and the moment has come when we were able to make a responsible decision about dropping the emergency epidemic situation with which we lived for two and a half years. This plan allowed us to take control of the spread of the disease, to maintain the capacity of vital hospitals, and at the same time to allow business to work. There wasn't one such dark closing of businesses at the last wave. Our knowledge of the development and control of the disease is becoming increasingly clear and comprehensive, which enables us to start a new life in normality and comparative calm, restoring all spheres that have so far suffered from the changed conditions. We are making this address to you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, but we are also addressing all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria from today, if we do not wear masks, we will not be sanctioned, from today all the restrictive measures that have been imposed remain only relevant for you and for us. In the last month, we have walked the path of gradually loosening measures so that we can now together make an informed decision based on our safety data and the well-adjusted risk of the decision taken. At the same time, we propose the creation of legal opportunities to allow the executive power and the directors of RZI to be able to react if the conduct of COVID-19 requires this. Masks and measures are now only recommended and I personally recommend that you continue to wear masks in closed public places, for example in urban transport in relation to your safety, and not because it is mandatory. In the name of the smooth transition, we retain the support measures for business as 60/40, and the additional payments of medical and medical workers who played a major role in dealing with the pandemic will continue and will move into a new policy on their incomes, which will no longer be bound by the presence or absence of a co-hospital pandemic and will not have to be asked in three months whether payments remain or are stopped. As of today, we are taking a decisive step towards returning that normality that Kovid took us more than two years ago. It is now our responsibility to approach carefully so that we do not allow the previous restrictions to be restored. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u223	And thank you, Professor Tonev. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is in the manner in which you are guided. I have no right to comment on the declaration, but I would like to ask, when factual inaccuracies are used, that you correct colleagues. The pandemic is a great scourge with which, unfortunately, the whole world has encountered, but our country especially. The fact of the matter, Mr. President, is that due to the management of the pandemic Bulgaria was first in mortality in Europe and leading in the world and for this management of the pandemic in fact the Bulgarian citizens paid with their lives and with their health. [[Applause from DPS]] I only support the call that we still need to be cautious. I congratulate you on that, but when factual inaccuracies are used, Mr. Chairman, they need to be corrected. The pandemic was managed so that we are leading in black statistics! These are the results for two years of management of the pandemic, first by the governments of GERB, then by the official and present. These are the results. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u225	I get it, Mr. Letifov, that we still do not have to make a statement in the form of procedures. Mrs. Belobradova, you are welcome to ask a question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova on administrative facilitation of the possibility for Ukrainian doctors and nurses to work on their specialty in our medical institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the unfolding humanitarian crisis due to the war in Ukraine. At present, Bulgaria is an entry point of more than 130 thousand. people fleeing the war effort, of which more than 60 thousand. people are established in the country for a different long period. Some of these people have a medical education.. doctors and medical professionals with professional experience and qualifications, which require long-term training. Most work with the Slavic alphabet and can easily acquire or improve their language skills in Bulgaria. Our home health care has a serious shortage of such staff, and other countries in the European Union, such as Poland and France, have made efforts to make sure that these people's qualifications can be quickly aligned and recognised, because this, besides helping those fleeing the war, is also in aid of the national health system. The window of opportunity for us will quickly close if administratively this problem is not resolved quickly and other countries offer better solutions. In this regard, my question to you is: are efforts made for the administrative alignment and recognition of the medical qualification of Ukrainian doctors and nurses who, after a certification course for language skills, can quickly and effectively participate in Bulgarian healthcare? With what could the National Assembly assist in urgent order for this problem to be resolved as soon as possible and in the interests of both parties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer. Colleagues, just to let you know that the meeting and parliamentary control will continue until 14.36 pm. We had a 20-minute break at the request of GERB-SDS, then a total of 16 minutes for declarations within the parliamentary control, so it is up to 14.36 pm. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Belobradova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to gain the right to exercise their profession in Bulgaria, the citizens of Ukraine who have obtained professional qualifications as a doctor or nurse in Ukraine must take an examination in Bulgarian and professional terminology in Bulgarian and in addition to the language exam you mentioned, as well as state examinations defined in the uniform state requirements for the acquisition of the relevant medical profession in Bulgaria and this is the so-called exam in art. 186, para. 3, p. 3 of the Health Act. The exam in Bulgarian language and professional terminology in Bulgarian language is organized and conducted by the Center for Evaluation in pre-school and school education at the Ministry of Education and Science. There are no regulatory requirements regarding how and where to conduct the preparation in Bulgarian language, but only the applicant needs to pass the exam in Bulgarian language and professional terminology in Bulgarian language in the center in question. However, it is necessary to pass a single admission procedure for the examination involving the state examinations laid down in the single state requirements, and this is the part that is in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health. The procedure shall be organised and carried out by the Ministry of Health, free of charge for applicants and, in general, shall include the submission of an application accompanied by certain documents specified in that application. As a result of the procedure and following a review of the documents, the Minister of Health issued an order for admission to the examination. On the basis of the order issued, the applicant shall make the examination at the higher education institution chosen by him where training under the profession is carried out. The university has the right to charge a fee for taking this exam and issue a certificate for the successful passing of the exam, which accordingly gives the right to exercise the medical profession in Bulgaria. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, we have discussed the possibilities for optimizing the described procedure. In view of the fact that regulated medical professions, such as the professions of the doctor and nurse, have a direct impact on the life and health of people, the requirements for the knowledge of Bulgarian language and professional terminology, as well as the possession of the necessary knowledge, which must be attributed to the passing of state examinations under the Article of the Health Act, which I quoted, are the minimum necessary conditions to ensure access to the healthcare system in Bulgaria to persons who are sufficiently qualified and professionally prepared. In this sense, there is no need for legislative changes. Easing and easing the procedure can be achieved in particular by organisational and administrative measures to shorten the time limits in individual procedures. They mainly include conducting the exam in Bulgarian language and professional terminology, which I quoted, because at present the practice is that this exam is held once every three months, but there is no obstacle to organizing its more frequent conduct in accordance, of course, with the candidates. The Ministry of Health is ready to shorten the deadlines that are in the department for issuing the orders for admission to state exams and it is also possible that higher schools can organise the conduct of this examination of persons who turn to them in a shorter time. Such a case had quite recently for a Ukrainian citizen who completed a pharmacy which was admitted to four state exams, and the higher education institution held a state exam for her, not to wait for the fall... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Maybe I'll finish the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u229	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Minister, you could have completed your thought. You don't have to interrupt your exhibition immediately, but... I think you'll be able to finish in the back. Just for the next questions to keep that in mind. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u230	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I suppose you, when you finish your thought, will answer other questions. This is good news that in fact the procedure is becoming more flexible, the deadlines will be reduced, but is there any legal possibility, and whether here the National Assembly can help, or if this is done by regulations, even while we have no state exams, doctors can work under the supervision of Bulgarian doctors in the hospital, as is currently happening in Poland and France? If there isn't, then let's keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Come again, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u232	What I wanted to add is that we remain committed to making procedures as easy as possible, but as far as regulated professions are concerned, we must comply with the European directive. We will examine the practices in the countries that you have quoted, but I strongly suspect that they do not have the status of doctors. At European level, a few days ago, I was at a meeting of the Council of Health Ministers in the European Union. This problem has been discussed, but in some very initial version and will probably be considered a change in the directive, so that exactly what you say, at least six months or one year to work under surveillance, but currently there is no such possibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u233	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Yuseyin Weyselov about providing an extra ambulance for emergency assistance in Dryanovo. Here you go, Mr. Weyselov. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During my meetings with the residents of Dryanovo, I was asked whether it is possible to secure another additional ambulance for the city because of the presence of only one. People are worried about the fact that regional emergency assistance is located 22 km from the town of Dryanovo and this means that in several emergency cases at the same time this ambulance has to travel to the town of Gabrovo, to return, which takes about 30 minutes. As you know, emergency services every minute counts. This one minute can save a man's life. In this regard, Minister, my question to you is: is it possible to secure another ambulance for the city of Dryanovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u235	And thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Weyselov! Philial Dryanovo is in the structure of the Center for Emergency Medical Care The other subsidiaries in this structure are: Gabrovo Branch, Sevlievo Branch and Tryavna Branch. The definition of the type and number of teams in the subsidiaries was carried out in the structuring of the CSM "Gabrovo," in the implementation of the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 211 of 1994 and in accordance with the indicative health standards in force at the time. It is currently the current Medical Standard for Emergency Medicine adopted by the appropriate regulations of the Ministry of Health, with reference to area indicators, number, density of the serviced population by affiliates. Special branch Dryanovo serves 8574 residents, including 1027 children up to the age of 18 from the territory of the municipality and the localities of the municipality. km, with one mobile team and two ambulances; Gabrovo branch serves 55 768 inhabitants in 131 settlements, Sevlievo "31 660" in 48 settlements, and Tryavna "9786," distributed in 71 settlements. Three doctors, nine healthcare specialists, six drivers and two orderlies work in the Dryanovo branch. The staff shall ensure the operation of two shift teams, with one mobile team responding to emergency calls and one stationary one providing the need for emergency assistance on site in the subsidiary. The two ambulances in Dryanovo are correct, equipped with the necessary equipment according to the Medical Standard of Emergency. We have also prepared a table of emergency calls in the branch that you are quoting for 2020 and January and February 2022. The average workload of the mobile team in the Dryanovo branch throughout 2021 and in 2022 has been two calls for a 12-hour shift and is currently not required by the Standard for the formation of an additional mobile team.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u237	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Mr. Weyselov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, perhaps when it suits you together we can go to Dryanovo because people were really worried about this fact. I don't know if this second ambulance still works? I didn't stay with those impressions, and I'm sure I'll visit this place to see if it's true. Yeah, well, maybe there haven't been a lot of cases so far, but it's possible that in one day more than 10 emergency cases will occur at the same time. It's possible that in the event of a car accident, one person can have a stroke, God forbid... So if that's the case, I'm gonna have to ask you to get some accurate information on whether it's true or not, and I'm gonna check it out myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u239	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Do you want a hole? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Weyselov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I have no reason to question the information provided to me by the Ministry of Health and which claims that the two ambulances in Dryanovo are fully correct. And as to whether there could be 10 calls per day, the calls made in January were 81 for the whole month, 86 were in January 2021, 74 for the same month in 2022. We will provide you with the necessary data, of course, but given the doubt that you have expressed, we will again ask for proof of whether the two ambulances are working if you have any doubt about the facts presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u241	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Alexander Simidchiev on the Programme for the Training of Medical Staffs for Lung Transplantation at Medizinische Universit Wien Akh Universitatscampus. Perhaps better than I, Dr. Simidchiev, since I don't speak German. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u242	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Serbenova, my question is raised by questions to me about the initiated but incomplete Programme for the training and qualification of medical specialists, doctors and nurses, rehabilitators and physiotherapists in the field of pulmonary transplantation as part of the National Programme "Promoting donation and support of transplants between 2019 and 2023." Bulgaria is limited in its ability to send patients for lung transplantation through a Eurotransplant in other countries, while seriously behind in building the local capacity for the implementation of such transplants. In response to this undeniable clinical need, a process of specialization and qualification with one of the leading centres in Europe, namely the Vienna University Clinic, was launched. Participants in this program were established specialists from the Military Medical Academy and the University Hospital St. Ekaterina. As of January 2, 2020, the program was launched with a business trip by two pulmologists, with a bronchological nurse, a physician-physiotherapist and a chiropractor joining them February. Due to the start of the Kovid pandemic, their training was interrupted in March 2020 and since then the Programme has been inactive and the other trainings for the team members have not been implemented. In this regard, I ask for your clarification on the status of this programme and why hasn't it been rebooted yet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u243	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Dr. Simidchiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The conduct of training in the country and abroad to improve the organisation of all activities related to donation and transplantation shall be carried out in accordance with Operational Activity 5 "Construction of training in the country and abroad to improve the organisation of all activities related to donation and transplantation" by the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplantation in the Republic of Bulgaria 2019 "2016," which was adopted by Decision No 777 of 19 December 2019 of the Council of Ministers. In connection with the pandemic situation with the coronavirus infection, the training in pulmonary transplantation at the Department of Thoracic Surgery at the Medical University of Vienna was suspended by the Austrian side, not on our part, on 12 March 2020. Official correspondence with the Austrian Ministry of Health was subsequently carried out here in the reply we quoted letters from the Ministry of Health. They are from April 2021. "No 04-02-584' and "99' respectively from 14 January 2022. The first letter I quoted was signed by Professor Angelov. The second letter that I quoted from January this year is from me, which highly appreciated the possibility of conducting lung transplant training and expressed readiness to continue this programme. At present, no response has yet been received from the Austrian Ministry of Health. By the way, Austria also has a new Minister of Health for literally several days, so it is also possible that this has had an impact on the lack of response, so I commit to preparing one again, as their Ministry of Health is the national competent authority from the Austrian side on the agreement concluded between the two countries. I can give you some information that in the period prior to the suspension of the Programme, two specialists in Pneumology and Phtysiatry started their training in Austria, a physician specialist in physical and rehabilitation medicine, ergotherapist and nurse with additional qualification for bronchoscopy. During this period the training of a medical rehabilitator was successfully completed by the First Clinic of Physics and Rehabilitation Medicine at the University Hospital of Sofia at the Military Medical Academy. It was planned in 2020 a training at the Medical University of Vienna for another 10 Bulgarian specialists, which unfortunately did not take place due to the cessation of the pandemic of the coronal infection. Within the meaning of the Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplant Act, the competent management body, you know that it is the Medical Supervision Executive Agency, including with regard to the organisation of the training. In this regard and in the implementation of the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplantation in the country the Executive Agency "Medicinski supervising" as a party to the Agreement signed in 2019. The Agreement also undertook to organize and plan the next trainings in active collaboration and after a response from the Austrian country. Here from this tribune, I am actually saying that we will follow and remind the Austrian Ministry of Health again to return an answer in order to start training. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u245	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u246	Dear Minister Serbenova, thank you very much for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u247	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. Madam Minister, this was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next question, colleagues, is to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov. He is from the MP Stefan Mirev on the repair of a bridge on the Maritsa River on the territory of Pazardzhik, part of the Republican road II-37. Here you go, Mr. Mirev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when the procedure for the construction of the western ring road of Pazardzhik was announced, in parallel with that in the Programme of the Agency of Road Infrastructure and Infrastructure and for 2021, the implementation of construction works was included in order to improve the operational status of the bridge of the Maritsa river in the town of Pazardzhik, which is on the road Sofia Pazardzhik. This bridge, which connects the two banks of the Maritsa River, has not been repaired since 1964, but was affected by the great flood in 2005. The facility takes huge traffic from cars and trucks, and its defects are many and visible. Therefore, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: does it remain in the priorities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u249	Thank you, Mr. Mirev. [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] Mr. Genov, the question was not for you, but I suppose you can discuss it with your colleague afterwards. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirev, in the Investment Program of the Railway Infrastructure Agency there is a construction of the bridge over the Maritsa river in the town of Pazardzhik, which is located on the Republic road I-8 Belovo Pazardzhik, at km 188. The facility was built in 1962 and has been in operation for 58 years. That is, since 1964. And since its construction to date, really, as you say, no major renovation has been done. In 2021, the Agency entrusted the road maintenance company with a contract No RD-38-7 from 20 November 2019, the development of a technological project for repair and reconstruction activities of the facility. The project was reviewed and approved by the Technical Council of the Regional Road Management in Pazardzhik and the Institute of Roads and Bridges in Sofia. The value of the repair was estimated at 4 million. 688 thousand. BGN 567, and during the past year only some activities in passing a temporary road and approach to the construction site were performed. However, on 8 November 2021, with an additional API agreement with the road support company with a duration of validity until the end of June this year, the clause is included that this repair of the bridge over the Maritsa River must be completed by the end of June 2022 or the contractor must preserve them and not then continue its operation there. Given that these construction works continue, which is my and my team's will, all the repairs started to be continued under the arrangements with which they were assigned, then all the repairs will likely be completed within this year. In case it does not come to the continuation of this major renovation, then the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning to announce a new public procurement under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor for the construction of a technical project for major repairs of the bridge over the Maritsa River, and then for construction and construction works on it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u251	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. Mr. Mirev, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u252	I thank you for the answer, but the residents of Pazardzhik and the whole area hope that the repair in question will be carried out as soon as possible. Frequently raising the issue on social networks shows that people's anxiety is high. Moreover, just a few months ago in the riverbed, next to the bridge, concrete columns were dropped, which led to the expectation that the renovation would begin. So I would be grateful to you that the repairs will be carried out in quality and within the time limits specified by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u253	Thank you, Mr. Mirev. Would you like a hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. The next question, colleagues, is from the National Representative Manol Genov on problems in the management and activity of the Tol system in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! On 22 March 2022 it became clear that the Directorate-General for National Police in the Ministry of Interior sent to the prosecutor's office materials from an inspection of the toll system led by the Agency of Road Infrastructure. The verification started in October 2021 following a referral that employees in the National Toll Administration committed unlawful acts. From this date is also the report which came out of the Court of Auditors, which was mentioned a few hours ago here from this stands. I assume that all these police actions are also the result of the prosecution, as a result of the violations described in the Court of Auditors' report. As early as autumn of 2020 As a Member of the National Assembly, and a group of MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we have repeatedly alerted, including the parliamentary platform, that there were no public expert and management explanations, at that time, for what reason, according to the new treaty, the state has committed to paying to the consortium Kapsh Traffic Solutions, an additional 140 million. lv. for the Proactive monitoring of the system and upgrade of functions, with which it became widely known and scandalous, and how the original price of 180 million. lv. It's rising dramatically to 320 million. lv.? Mr. Minister, given the current circumstances for referral by the Ministry of Interior to the Prosecutor's Office with data from a closed inspection, after which it is insisted on the formation of pre-trial production of the National Tol system, I address you with the following question: to what extent has the company's commitment to the contract contractor been made so far to train specialists to work with the system? What is the amount paid for this? Is there an authorised sub-contractor in place and, if so, does he use access to the data in the system, provided that such is not permitted in the original contract? Is there a change of contract in any of its clauses following circumstances revealed by the Ministry of Interior for incorrect contractual commitments of engaged contractors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u255	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u256	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, first of all, I would like to say that I also learned from the media information about the verification of the DGBOP and that they will submit documents to the prosecution about the facts and circumstances that they believe constitute the crime. Why can't I comment on this much more? Unfortunately, or maybe that's the right thing to do, I don't get any information from the police or the investigation or the prosecution. On the other issues in your questioning. Regarding your first question, I'm specifying a few things. First, on 16 January 2018, the Road Infrastructure Agency (RJP) concluded a contract with the contractor, a consortium, a "Kapsch Traffic Solutions', for the design, construction and introduction of an electronic charging system for the use of the Republican road network based on distance travelled for vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes (tonne) and on the basis of time for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass of 3,5 tonnes (electronic screw). The contractor has carried out the trainings for which the relevant protocols have been drawn up, the amount of which is included in the total price for the implementation of this first contract. According to the copies of these protocols, which are kept in API, during the period October 2018 until September 2019 the contractor conducted 23 trainings involving over 700 Agency staff. The second thing I would like to clarify is that under Treaty No РД 37-22 of 23 December 2020, which is subject to the "Proactive monitoring', operational support of the interaction between programme and apparatus resources and upgrade with new functionality of the electronic system for collecting fees for the use of the Republican Road Network, it does not include the conduct of training courses in this second contract. According to the subject matter of this contract, it acquires knowledge and skills from the relevant staff of the Road Infrastructure Agency in carrying out the maintenance of the electronic tolling system. About your third question about allowing a sub-contractor to enter into the contract. The contractor did not state that it would use subcontractors in the performance of the activities under the second contract and therefore no evidence of commitments for the performance of a corresponding share of the contract by persons other than the contractor was provided. In this respect, there is no existing sub-contractor under this Treaty, No RD-37-22 from 23 December 2020, this is the [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just thirty seconds, if I may?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u257	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u258	In relation to the question of access to the system, a signal has been sent to the competent institutions, which I have learned from the media. As a more detailed check in the Tol unit, we find that on 7 October 2021, i.e. about five months ago, there was such a signal from an employee, which talks about possible third party access to the system that was submitted to the Director of National Toll Management, for which I have the assurance that he has reached the Governing Council. Unfortunately, from then on, we find nothing more to do with it. The current Board of Directors no longer has any of the previous ones, and I have no way of asking them why they didn't react. Probably this signal because of the lack of reaction was also sent to the police, but that's just my guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u259	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Genov, for a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u260	Dear Minister, you participated here in the hearing a few hours ago. It became clear that the Court of Auditors' report for installation was not available. I'm guessing you didn't get the Toll System report either. Today I checked and it became interesting that the date 21 October 2021 and the day of the opening of the preliminary check coincide with the date of the Report. That's an interesting fact. I therefore tie them together that the Court of Auditors has not come to you with any information, but should also come to the National Assembly. We didn't check that. Thank you for your answer, Minister Karadjov. I have deliberately asked very specific and not even first-line issues about the problem of the toll system, but I have no doubt that the ministry entrusted to you is actively working on the whole series of very serious cases, intertwined indeed in a mysterious ball of commitments, procedures, figures and so on, behind which the previous management of the Roads Agency stands, as it is said, the Road Infrastructure Agency. As part of this orb, it is also that very controversial contract with the Austrian company Kapps. That's one part of the vices detected in this contract. They're already, as we agreed, in the D.A.'s office, and it's encouraging. I know it will somehow not be easy for you as a minister, but I believe that you will not give up unraveling dozens of other disturbing circumstances in which this "unique" works, in quotes, a Bulgarian toll system, which was presented to us by former Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and his people in the "Trails" agency. We all expect you to unravel why the Bulgarian tol system proved to be the most expensive in Europe? We want it to come soon and the moment when we announce who is behind those corrupt 7% of the fees that remain in private, since this is the kind of service in many countries of the European Union its percentage is between 0,8 and 2. We also expect to expose the ring of companies tied around the toll system and to make it clear why the GPS service providers have dropped the possibility of sending directly the data from the trackers to the API system. By the way, answer both this and very serious questions on the subject insist that experts from the Institute for Road Safety and with them and every Bulgarian taxpayer, such as who is interested in the process of preparing tol declarations not to be inside the API system? Dear Mr. Karadzhov, you have a lot of hard work to do on the field of this obvious corruption case with many cuts in the chain and millions of damages for the state and the users of the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u261	The weather, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u262	I wish you to succeed and that the Bulgarian taxpayer can receive information about all the violations that were noted in the implementation of these contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u263	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, you have actually asked the most important questions in the line and now I will respond specifically to each one of them. Yeah, I didn't get a report. Today, here in the Chamber, I heard that there is also one for the Auto-Magistrals, which I also do not have. So if the National Assembly makes a decision and makes a move on these, I don't know, secret or otherwise unprovided reports, really, if it works with already prepared audit reports, it will be much easier for each minister, first of all, to figure out what and how it happened, second of all, to take adequate measures to stabilize the system. Secondly, as you know, and I announced perhaps less than a month ago, I have commissioned an audit of the toll system, which is being carried out by two interagency groups, as far as we do not have as good IT specialists to enter the technology section. We use such of the Ministry of Electronic Governance, as well as several other departments have joined with their specialists to examine both the legal, contractual and from the point of view of the European framework part of the Toll Unit, as well as the technology and the one that is to the software, access to it and so on. For a reason, I asked the company manufacturer "Kapsh" to cancel all access to this system at the lowest level and create a single new yuser with two accounts, one to the database, the other to the operational engine. So there's one single person, it's been communicated to the media and it's known who this only administrator is. He's the only one who can give names, because what I found is that there are yuses that aren't taken anywhere and you don't know which individual is behind them, which is a breach of the security of this very important system. With regard to the contract with Capps. I have already announced on Monday, if you recall, at the meeting with the carriers, I announced that the Kappshes contract is in strict revision at the moment, but also from the preliminary data that I have, there will be a proposal on our side that this contract be seriously reduced as a sum because we do not find any overlap between the services that are being provided and the amounts that are being paid. If the company refuses, of course, we will take all legal measures to ensure the security of the system and prevent collapses. And thirdly, also stated at my meeting with the carriers, except for a reduction in the contracts of "Kapsh', which is driven by the inclusion of no more zero rates for the second-class network of roads, there will also be a reduction in the percentage of the so-called NSAs, i.e. national service providers, which are currently two. The only thing I wouldn't agree with is what you said about tol declarations, because it's the NSAs all over Europe that make up that declaration. They are kind of like customer relations, i.e. accountants who communicate with specific carriers and settle these relationships. They're very important in the chain, I assure you, they're not parasitic. Not only do they get one percent, especially with the new system, which will soon enter here in the National Assembly to watch it, you will see that they have a very important role to play in settling the so-called fines, which are currently very unfairly settled. But I will have the opportunity, because I have overdue the time to talk about this when we present the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u265	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We've run out of questions for Grozdan Karadjov. Thank you for your participation in both the blitzcontrol and the regular parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of Radostin Vassilev, Minister of Youth and Sports. In fact, we have only one question to ask him from Denitsa Nikolova about capacity and personnel guaranteeing the implementation of youth and sport policies. Here you are, Mrs. Nikolova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is related to the policy of personnel guaranteeing management in the Ministry, because in recent months what we are mainly reading in the media and in public materials is mainly related to the change of management in both the Ministry and the ministry's departments to this ministry and in addition to the state sports schools in the country. In this direction, my question is related to this, in view of the changes that have actually been made, what are the competitions that will be announced by the end of the calendar year in order to transparently choose new capacity managers, both in the structures of the Ministry and in the departments? That, on the one hand. On the other hand, in so far as part of the management staff focuses mainly on the implementation of youth and sport policies, which are part of and, of course, the ruling majority coalition agreement. In the direction of programme management and of projects we have a very small part of the units that are focused on the implementation of projects and programmes related to European funding. And in this direction, my additional question is what projects is the Ministry of Youth and Sports, funded by the European Union, and, of course, how is the European Union-funded personnel unit secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Minister, for a response within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has no departments, it has several companies of a commercial nature, which have a principal minister of youth and sport, and several secondary officers, sports schools. So I don't know which departments you mean in asking. With regard to chamber policy at the moment in the Ministry, with my overlap, a comprehensive change of the structure of the Ministry has started, which will end with the adoption of a whole new structure of this administration. Of course, my policy as a minister is linked to changes in the structural staff and in the personnel of this ministry and related units. I don't know what you're reading, but generally less than 5% are the people who have changed the structure of the Ministry and associated structures. At the moment we have 38 seats, where we plan to hold competitions this year. I cannot at the moment know exactly which places there will be ranked candidates and which positions we will announce, but within the coming months with the new Ministry's Rules of Procedure you will be able to familiarize yourself with the policies that this ministry will conduct and the difference from what has been before. As far as the programmes are concerned. Classic in the Ministry there are several main structural units in the policies There are five programs that are developed and administered by us, three are specifically aimed at providing opportunities for physical activity. A program is about providing opportunities for physical activity and sports for disabled people, as well as providing opportunities for sports training. And one sport development program for everyone, including the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, workers and others. At present are approved projects of 98 sports organizations under this programme "Sports for children in leisure time". The program is realized in 46 settlements, participate 3600 children in 28 sports. A project is also being carried out at the moment - learn to ski at the Bulgarian Ski Federation in 2022, which is becoming a traditional one. Projects and programmes of sports organisations to implement sport policy for all will be approved and funded for all, namely the "Sport Development " for all, for people with disabilities, as well as the "Tennis" sport for all, the "Children and Badminton" and a number of others. I can give you an even more detailed answer in writing. Sport policy for students. In fulfilling the priorities aimed at creating conditions for physical activity, the IMS is currently assisting the activities of sports organizations through the development, validation and realization of sport for children at risk and a Programme for the development of sport for students. With regard to the activities of sports schools are currently accepted and examined, and the procedure has been completed under the approval of the program "Helping training activities and the activities of the sports reserve preparation centres for excellence" by prominent students in state sports schools for 2022. The State Admission Plan for State and Municipal Sports Schools for the academic year 2022 is in validation procedure, which I signed today. Coordination, holding a working meeting with the directors and vice-directors of sports activities of all 25 sports schools in the country shall be carried out. The sport activity for excellence is which is of exceptional interest. There a programme for financial support is the activity in sport for excellence for 2022, was adopted with my intervention as a minister and we are currently completing the approval of most of the applicants. The programme aims at financial support for the activities of licensed sport federations in the field of sport for 2022 and has been developed in accordance with the current regulations. It has two directions, for the first time united in a common field of Olympic training and development of sport for excellence, for the preparation and participation of athletes in state and international competitions to achieve high sports results. The main objective of the Programme is the development of sport for excellence. 58 projects of sports federations under the Programme have taken place and at present the Commission has examined 45 sports federations and fully meets the requirements of the Ministry. By order of the Minister of Youth and Sport, the Commission for the Olympic Training of Full Expertity has also been appointed. I'm not part of it, not one of the Ministry's leadership. There are people from the National Sports Academy Vasil Levski, Bulgarian Olympic Committee and external experts. Another is the Programme for financial support for hosting households in international sports competitions, because Bulgaria must host an elite sport so that we can improve our authority, apart from our high sports mastery. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The current regulations in the field of sport and national peculiarities, the main goal is to increase the prestige of the Bulgarian sport at national and global level. 28 projects of sports federations have been submitted under the Programme, which are in the procedure of examination by the Commission, which I have defined, and at present about half of them have already concluded contracts and have started funding under them. Sports Club Development Programme 2022 supports the development of sports clubs. Such a necessary program for post-epidemic settlements such as in Bulgaria, which affected the most sports clubs. The leading role of sports clubs as members of licensed sports federations. The program covers 55 types of sport and supports clubs in the implementation of a full training cycle and racing activity. The program is official and published on the Ministry's website. It's a personnel program. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thirty seconds. This programme is to provide staff clubs through financial support.. means of minimum wage, athletes from different age groups with funds provided by the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Accordingly, the Ministry is also involved in several international programs under the eight programmes under the "Survivor+" programme, I can give them to you in writing, and under the "Human Resources Development" Operational Programme. The name of the project is Development and implementation of quality standards for the provision of youth services in Bulgaria. Under Operational Program "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" the procedure is "Culture and sport in school" with subject "Repair and reconstruction," and the introduction of energy efficiency measures in the sports school "Jurie Gagarin" in the city of Bourgas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u269	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Nikolova, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u270	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the information provided. In fact, my more specific question will be related precisely to the support from the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" related to renovation or rather the introduction of energy efficiency measures in the sports school in the city of Bourgas. We know that the project has been extremely entertaining in the course of the two official governments last year, so as far as my multi-mandated electoral area is the Burgas region, I would like to learn a little more in this direction. And one more question. It is related to the support of the horizontal programme of the European Commission "Erasmus+". You know that within 2022 under the Programme plan there is access available for financial resources, including Bulgaria, from over 3 billion. EUR, of which almost 60 million EUR have access to sports activities and 288 million. EUR have the opportunity to support the initiatives of the youth.. different types of trainings, networking, exchange of experience activities, opportunities to implement different types of initiatives. Three of the invitations to apply for this programme started in November with a deadline of the end of March, actually two days ago. As far as in the coalition agreement on page 92, Section of Finance, Economics and Politics, p. 8, you have a commitment to creating opportunities to finance sport under international programmes, access to information, campaign organisation, application trainings under the programmes, my question is: what has been the help of this process. How many sports clubs, federations, respectively the Ministry of Youth and Sports, public sports schools had the opportunity to apply for these opportunities from the European Commission, because these are means of sport and youth development, which should not be missed in any case. The resources are serious and allow for implementation, including the policies you set out in the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u272	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, with my inauguration as Minister, the case with the sports school in Burgas and its participation in this program was immediately placed on my desk. In addition to being extremely late, there were a number of signals related to abuse in the choice of contractor and supervision of this project, and by my order I have terminated the public procurement on the case. In order not to lose the opportunity to carry out this good work for the building of the sports school, I have sent to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works our deadline for this programme to be extended. And I would like to reopen this process so that one of the sports schools, which, by the way, does not have its own building, will receive the much-needed assistance under this energy efficiency programme. With regard to your other questions related to the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Currently, we have eight programmes of "Erasmus+" that are active. I can list them for you. These are: the "Erasmus+" programme: the "Employment" programme. The name of the Project is............................................ "Erasmus+Sport." The title of the project is "Share the values in sport by strengthening the role of the judges"; "Motivation" is the next program; "Accordance/convergence" is a better management of sport by preparing the codebooks. Once again, nothing can stop you from celebrating the European Sports Week. With regard to the current programs and opportunities for applying with the Ministry of Education, we are in constant contact and we will be very active. It is in the realization of the European Sports Week that we are currently implementing one of the projects that we have won in European funding, which will allow us to be extremely active and to present ourselves in a very dignified way this week. I'm glad you're reading the coalition agreement. It is mainly part of the policy of the ruling coalition, but it is nice when the opposition has an interest in it. I believe that the performances or non-compliances will be mainly in the prerogatives of the ruling coalition, but in 2023 and 2022, too, we will implement significant projects on European funds, which, naturally, when projects are implemented, will be notified in due time. And March 31 for us is not a deadline at the moment for applying to any of the programs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u273	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Ms. Nikolova for expressing attitude within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u274	March 28 was actually the deadline for the three invitations. I hope you applied, but I'm going to ask you an additional question so you can provide me with information in this direction. My attitude will be linked again to your personnel policy, because the largest state sports school in the country "General Vladimir Stoykov" in Sofia dawned two weeks ago with a new director. For the short time of his management what happened was that he stopped the school bus of the children with which they went to two-way sports training. In addition, of course, we should say that we are at the end of a school year when we will have external evaluation, we will also have state maturity exams, and I think that at this very appropriate or rather inappropriate time, the change of a management frame with very clear professional qualities and realization is necessary to be taken into account by you as a minister in the course of your next actions as a governor. In general, you have allowed yourself the most unceremoniously to dismiss from office the director of the school in question without even seeing him a professional, a world champion, a young prosperous man with over 10 years of professional orientation, an educator and specialist in the construction of young athletes to the level of Republican and European champions. This is not unnoticed by children, by parents and respectively by sports circles. I think you should be most aware that a professional athlete who has suffered all the way to sports training would never go against a good vision in youth policy and the development of sports, regardless of who the minister is, of course. You're being misled, and I think you'll understand it a little further. And now I just want to finish with a quote from a book on the 70th anniversary of CSKA, which explicitly states on page 300 that one of the most popular names in the sports sambo is Boris Borisov. Its biggest peak is in 2014, when it becomes a world champion. Borisov is convinced that he who competes for CSKA cannot be a mediocre athlete and should always be driven to the peaks in Bulgaria and in the world. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you are so driven to the tops of the world and to achieve what this man has achieved. But with your dismissal, you certainly didn't do yourself a good service, all the more so because this is a proven person who has achieved success and who has the potential to develop sports at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. With this we have exhausted the questions and questions to Radostin Vassilev. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for participating in parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. The first question is from MP Ahmed Ahmedov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, on July 8, 2021, Mr. Sami Arif Sami, the local chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in Sofia, has signed a warning protocol. This is a two-term chairman. Dear colleagues, you all know that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the first registered political party in the contemporary democratic history of our dear homeland Bulgaria. And naturally, our party is governed by its statutes. The main Managing Authority of the European Union Rights and Freedoms Movement is the conference and it is held at three years old. Between these two conferences are held the Central Council of the Party and between the meetings of the Central Council of the Party meeting the Operational Bureau. Dear Minister, the local chairman of Samuel Mr. Sami Arif Sami as a local chairman and during a campaign, he has only and only implemented the decisions of the Central Operational Bureau of the Party by reducing policies during the elections to the local population. But unfortunately, he was forced to sign a warning protocol. I believe that in this way the Ministry of Interior allows an intervention in the electoral processes in our kind homeland Bulgaria, which is unacceptable, according to the Election Code and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. My question to you is: on what basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol. Has the prosecution been informed and what further action has been taken on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u277	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u278	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ahmedov, I don't need to read your questions. It's like they're on a copier or I don't know how they're made so I can talk without looking at the materials I have. With regard to the gentleman you are asking about in our country, I think that especially in the Bulgarian Parliament it does not matter the person you are asking about which party it is from. Because under the Constitution every MP expresses the will of the people, he is representative of all Bulgarian citizens, of all Bulgarian voters! I do not know why you are constantly concentrating on only individuals who are members of the DPS, representatives of the DPS and so on and so forth. Whoever committed any violation, if there is, of course, we will take attitude, because it is about Bulgarian citizens, not because it is about members of the DPS. And since we already know all of you, the whole room and our community, of course, listening to us, what is the content of your question, I will say the following: firstly, that there has been no harassment or pressure on this person. It cannot, it is not normal, it is not natural to claim that in respect of all these dozens of people you ask about in Parliament, and you consider this to be a huge political achievement, the same thing to have happened to all those citizens with whom you engage the entire public. So pressure, harassment, no exercise. Again, I will say something that I have said to the previous parliamentary control. If such data exists, it should not be addressed to the Minister of Interior. In Bulgaria there are laws and should be addressed to the authorities that are competent to deal with these materials. This is the Prosecutor's Office and the relevant department of the Prosecutor's Office. They are competent under the Code of Criminal Procedure, as you repeatedly stress that the laws of the state must be respected. If you think you can criticize the Ministry of Interior, that the laws should be respected, which I accept, if there are facts, then the same applies to you. You are Bulgarian citizens, even more MPs who need to be alert to the law and observe it in the comma if necessary. I could answer the second part of the question, of course, and I will. Because you are not so pursuing the protection of the rights and interests of the citizens you are asking about, but something else. With regard to this person you are asking about, I will say that there is a file registered in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Razgrad, as well as in the Prosecutor's Office in Razgrad. A complaint that concerns this person you're asking about. And I would also like to raise this question: do you think that this person who is here reflected in this file and who has filed a complaint is entitled to a complaint, or do you not think? If you believe that this person is not entitled to a complaint, then, of course, we will only talk about the citizen, a representative of the DPS, a member of the DPS, president of the local DPS and so on. But there is a complaint here that has been brought to the Ministry of Interior in Razgrad, as well as the D.A.'s office. Every citizen of the Constitution has the right to complaints, to alerts and this right has been exercised by this person on this basis a check has been initiated at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. And imagine, even though the complaint is directed against a representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u279	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a line, Mr. Ahmedov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u280	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, yesterday a large part of the Bulgarian public and most of all we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have followed your press conference. I couldn't understand: was this a press conference for the past 100 days or a press conference for the past 10 months since you were a minister of the service? And I highlighted some essential phrases spoken by your mouth. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, to read them, namely: The Community must decide which party participates honestly in the elections and which party does not. We will not stop doing our work, despite the echoes in parliament and the threats that will be asked 20 000 questions. This will not scare us, because the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have done their work under law. Dear Minister, in your interview on May 18th, you stated that the Ministry of Interior has conducted an analysis of the electoral sections, an analysis of the results and on this basis you have taken measures. That is why today I am asking a question about my fellow citizens, Mr. Sami Arif, that this analysis may have included you ordering the presence of police cars in these settlements, precisely in these places to call on people who are vulnerable groups, that is, disabled people who have suffered being summoned, and to give instructions for one purpose only to exert pressure and, above all, fear. You can't sense fear in the people of Ludogorie, Mr. Minister. But my question to you is, you say: Who expects this result and what are the expectations of these people? From the Ministry of Interior's election headquarters!? Who has set these expectations, these requirements for you? Who expected, dear Minister, the local presidents, the asset of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the elections to be accustomed, to be humiliated? Who expected this? Who allowed this in the modern democratic history of our country? The people, Mr. Minister, who have survived the revival process, this wound will not heal! It won't heal if you rudely reach into it and do most of the time I don't want to use such words, but it won't heal because, dear Minister, through your actions you bring back the memories of the so-called communist regime. Thank you, however, for the question, and thank you for the answer. Good luck to you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u281	Thank you. Is there gonna be an asshole? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u282	I can start at the end, Mr. President, which we have heard about, that when the employees of the Ministry of Interior are doing their job to prevent or reveal a crime that is defined in the Penal Code in our country, this is interpreted by the representative of the House of Rights and Freedoms. What is happening today and last year during the elections has absolutely nothing to do with what national representative Ahmedov said. These are fictions and propaganda that spread here from the National Assembly stands. The Ministry of Interior yesterday had a report, yes, that is right, and it was indeed pointed out that good results have been achieved in countering a crime, which was obviously practiced by some political parties in our country because there was no government body to counter this crime. This crime is called buying and selling votes. We've got enough court cases...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u283	What are these qualifications, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u284	We have legal acts in which this has been proven, including those that indicate which political party votes have been bought for. This is what the Bulgarian court does not say, I am currently quoting legal acts. But let's continue a little on the subject. Because the specific question, if the case is known and we treat it objectively, does not serve as a matter in plenary. This is political propaganda at the moment not so much that someone wants to protect the rights and interests of a Bulgarian citizen, he and a member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms... [[(Radio, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u285	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u286	Because, Mr. President and honourable MPs, as I stressed, the verification in this case in relation to this person has started on the signal of another Bulgarian citizen to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to the prosecution...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u287	Kosharevsky witnesses!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u288	...so that's where the case is registered. The materials are currently in the Prosecutor's Office, honourable MPs, in District Prosecutor's Office Razgrad. You can learn more details if you refer to District Prosecutor's Office Razgrad. If you are given the file, you will see what materials are inside. So this can only be done with the permission of the Prosecutor's Office. This seems to me that he knows every average Bulgarian citizen. It's right, Mr. Ahmedov, you should learn it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u289	Before we go any further, I would like to say a few things, as it will most likely be valid for the next 88 questions. In the context of the discussion here........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[DPS lines: the Minister insults!]] I say it to everyone, I turn to the Minister. [[DPS lines.]] I repeat to the Members of the National Assembly and to the Minister: the question, the answer, the replica and the duplicate do not go beyond what is set here. There is a question for a specific case, the answer must be for the particular case. The line has no reason to go to media publication anymore. Once again, this applies to absolutely all the Members of the National Assembly and to the Minister. I appeal, of course, to the Minister to be responsible for the relevant cases, as he did in the duplicate rather than in the answer. And also, fellow Members, I appeal to you: because it is still about specific individuals, to consider again whether it is not better for the questions to be written in so far as this way... [[DPS lines.]] I'm just saying, that's your job. I'm just saying. Because written ones can get more information, which, by putting it on the site, can be deleted and not here to comment on specific individuals, which could be uncomfortable for them. I just said it. It's my vision. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I therefore take this procedure in the manner of conduct to give you an answer to what we think on the subject. We are thinking what you said to stick to cases. They're all the same, because the bullying was the same. No one can convince us that this is not harassment, since it is about checks on citizens' signals, it is about carrying out searches and so on. There's no results. The signal ratio............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If the ratio were any other, we'd say, yes, here, they've done their job. A thousand signals, 200 checks, 100 convictions. That's why we don't ask written questions because we want to see what happened here in this debate. It may have been done by the letter of the law, I may say, but I'm not sure, that's what lawyers will say. As for the prosecutor's office, to tell the honorable minister that we did what we had to do in the prosecution. But the protection of these Bulgarian citizens, against whom we believe there is a excess of rights and abuse, will be done here from this tribune. We will ask ourselves and we will talk. And since the Minister is very fond of talking about intelligence and average intelligence, let me tell him that we also doubt someone's average intelligence. Don't even think about it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u291	Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u292	No, no, I'm not saying whose average intelligence. I'm not saying. Don't even think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u293	You're coming out of the procedure towards me, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u294	No, I'm not getting out of the procedure. My procedure is in the way of holding it several times, and in the previous answers, and now it is talking about propaganda. He's talking about convictions against a party and so on. Such sentences are against all parties. And the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has repeatedly said that yes, we will fight with legal means against the purchase of votes, which is carried out by all Bulgarian parties throughout the transition. And the suggestion that this is being done by the DPS, we're not going to leave it that way. Because that's what they do. And if I don't want to talk about intelligence here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u295	Time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u296	...because we don't put someone's intelligence to it. Because it's just me talking about intelligence that's a little too much for me. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u297	Mr. Tsonev, don't make accusations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u298	No, because he's not gonna talk to me about intelligence, that guy! [[Replicates from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Oh, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u299	Mr. Tsonev, please! And not with such accusations against other parties in practice. [[Noise, lines from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Each party can now come out for a procedure. Got it. Thank you. We're done. [[Replicates from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u300	Please, please! That tone from here about intelligence, you keep it to yourself! [[Relations between Minister Boyko Rashkov and MP Yordan Tsonev away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u301	Okay, let's stop this discussion. It will not lead to anything beneficial within the sitting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u302	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Since the Minister allows himself to always read morals here, to edify us, I want you to understand because there is no other person like him who speaks from this platform, there is no other person like Boyko Iliev Rashkov, currently the Minister of Interior, who is world-renowned. And do you know where he's world-renowned, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u303	Mr. Anastasov, is this a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u304	In Amnesty International. [[Applause from DPS.]] Please listen to me, Mr. Chairman, because this concerns Bulgaria, the image of Bulgaria. There is a whole page dedicated to the report of the Amnesty International on human rights violations, along with other dictators, with other people who have usurped their power, but there is no other interior minister from either the European Union or NATO, who in quotes so glorified his country in the International Report of Amnesty International and Mr. Boyko Iliev Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u305	Mr. Anastasov, this procedure goes beyond what is generally written in the Rules of Procedure, which should be with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u306	However, it is important to know who speaks from the stand of this National Assembly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u307	I know who's talking. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u308	Because there's no one else. I doubt anyone in the military junta...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u309	If you want, let me meet him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u310	...the whole report is on the Internet, he's online. It's not in Bulgarian, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u311	Which military junta are we talking about, may I ask?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u312	Which are listed on the other pages. And only a person from Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u313	Thank you. Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u314	...is Boyko Iliev Rashkov. You know, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u315	Let us also, within the procedure, stick to what should be expected of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u316	Leave this tribune clean, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u317	We have time for at least one more question if we get to the point. Here you are, Mr. Letifov. Are you here for the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question is one of the same cases, one of the 20 thousand cases that took place in Gurkovo in July, and the victim is Mr. Lyuben Chakarov, who has signed a protocol several times, and the latter is from 11 July 2021. My question is entirely related to the protection, rights and freedoms of Mr. Lyuben Chakarov and all these 20,000 Bulgarian citizens because the cases are identical. Outside the suggestion, outside the propaganda that is being done, we want to see the evidence why specific rights are being violated and why does this fear become involved in people who are related to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u319	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u320	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will answer the same question this way: there is no evidence of pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior and this citizen, who is mentioned and for whom he is once again emphasized that he is a representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. In addition, regarding this particular citizen, there is a signal issued by another Bulgarian citizen who has appeared at the relevant police station in Kazanlak and who is a Bulgarian citizen who has provided information with data, I will not name them, but I will say that there are about 15 people for whom the information is that they are involved or will carry out buying votes in the territory of the municipality of Gurkovo. Of course, in connection with the upcoming elections. These materials, these signals that have been sent, are registered, of course, in the respective police department, as well as in the District Prosecutor's Office in Stara Zagora and in the course of carrying out the necessary verification on the basis of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, the person you are asking about, Mr. National Representative, has been warned in this regard. There is further information that on 11 July last year, police action has been taken on this subject on this occasion on a tour of a mobile group in the respective police station. If you don't like the wording of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, you are MPs, submit a proposal to remove this text from which warning protocols can be drawn up in respect of persons for whom, as I have pointed out, there have been operational data in advance, operational information about the preparation of buying and selling votes there. So there is another possibility of the people's representation. Since he does not like that there is a text that provides for or criminalises the buying and selling of votes and provides for punishment for being deprived of liberty and others, you also submit a proposal to repeal this text from the special part of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u321	We've imported this text. [[Relations of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u322	So you have these legal options. And since there's an active text from the Penal Code declaring it a crime to buy and sell votes, [[Replications by MP Yordan Tsonev]] which you have especially done in the area of Gurkovo, Kazanlashko...................just you and the people around you, I think there is no doubt about who committed a violation of human rights, whether the police officers who did their job and were performing their duties, or someone else who carried the briefcases with money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u323	Thank you. Here's a line. We stick to the specific case I'm telling everyone again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u324	Mr. Chairman, the suggestion, first of all, does not correspond to the question and answer. For violations of the rights of the citizen, this and another 20 thousand, it becomes clear now. For the particular case, where there is a signal from a Bulgarian citizen for 15 persons that the police have presented to these 15 persons, and the Minister, note... there were no three names on this list, there was one name, and some of the names were not names, but nicknames. How did you find all these people by their nickname and call them to the police and steal them? Of course, the article of the Law does not bother us, we have supported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u325	No, we brought it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u326	We brought it in, as Mr. Tsonev reminds me. However, the suggestion, the violation of the rights and what we listened to the previous time, two names, we do not know them, but by one name were sought out these 15 people, driven, searched and so on. As a result of the protection of the rights, what Mr. Rashkov quoted the same person, the November elections were abroad. He was afraid to participate in the electoral process in Bulgaria, not in the violation of the Law. To participate in the election process was afraid and he was abroad. And there was more presence of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior than voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u327	Thank you. Is there a duplicate, Mr. Minister, or not? I won't. Before we finish due to the passing of time, there is a procedure requested by Mustafa Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you to remind Mr. Rashkov that although today is April 1st, it is not good to lie about this tribune. If you do not like the notion of lying, it is not good to allow first April factual inaccuracies from this tribune. The second thing, Mr. Chairman, remind Mr. Rashkov that the abuse of legislation he committed during the elections...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u329	No such qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u330	...and turned the police into a militia, it's written in his name. Those people, those mostly young people who were bullied by Mr. Rashkov, they are future ministers in this country. In three days, three weeks, three months, three years, 30 years, 300 years, his term will expire. After us comes the next generation, those young men he was harassing. Remind him of those things. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-01.u331	Thank you, colleagues. That's why I'm closing today's session as time is up. The next meeting will be held on Wednesday at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
