ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] For the procedure please come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday, three proposals for a decision on the granting of assistance to Ukraine were considered to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please exercise your powers and place this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u3	Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the same issue that Mr. Ivanov put, however, my procedural proposal will be to exercise your powers and include all three draft decisions that were discussed yesterday in the Foreign Commission, for the simple reason that they are fundamentally different. Regardless of what was voted yesterday within the Commission, it is good to consider all three projects in order to finally see how this House will vote and who is standing where in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Honest Mitev and Peter Petrov also for procedure. I apologize atanas michnev. Sorry, Mr. Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u6	Mr. Chairman, my colleague Mitev is considerably weaker, I would like to stress. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is as follows: I ask that we follow, as is the procedure, wait for the Commission to submit the relevant report which has not been submitted at the moment. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u7	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u8	Let us only look at the decision that the Commission has adopted. This is my procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u9	Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u10	Mr. Chairman, it won't be weird, I will agree with my colleague Mihnev and his procedural proposal. I would also like to further develop this because, in addition to having one report on which we can make our reasoned decision on how to vote. I would like not to include these items on the agenda. Let's continue on the current agenda, which I may see for the first time, is from the same page for the plenary week. We see that we have a very important point It's not a coincidence that she's the only one on the agenda today. I think it is important enough and after it, of course, we will continue with the rest of yesterday's unattended. I'm asking you to respect what we voted on yesterday. I believe that it is important enough for this plenary week and today, on Good Thursday. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u11	Okay, great Thursday's not that big of a deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u12	In some areas, it's called Good Thursday, just to say. So please do not support putting the three items on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u13	Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u14	Mr. Chairman, on the same subject. Two of the decisions were made on 30 March, the other on 1 April, the third one yesterday. The Foreign Commission report, I suppose, will be quite brief, as the debate was terminated in Foreign Affairs by decision of the majority. In general, it will take no more than an hour for this report to be completed if it is not almost written already. So there is no obstacle to the report being presented within a maximum of half an hour. These decisions aren't that long. So we demand that you use your powers and include the item on the agenda for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any other procedures on this subject? There's really no report. They just confirmed it to me. So for the moment it won't be proposed, but we'll see if there's a report, I might reconsider my position. [[Comments from GERB: "Eee! "]] Dessislava Atanasova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A demonstration of compliance with the letter of the Rules, for which I congratulate you. However, Mr President, I do not congratulate you on the different trend in the consideration of various reports. If we are to wait for a report from the President of the Commission, for which the foreign minister's visit is simply protocol, then I propose that we consider these projects without a Commission report. In addition, let me remind you that we have been waiting for one report from one Temporary Commission on another occasion, regarding energy, which has not seen the light of day and plenary for months, has expired the Commission's period of action. In this sense, Mr President, you can exercise all your powers to submit this point of view, because everyone in this House is extremely crystal clear and the decision taken yesterday by the Committee on Foreign Policy and all proposed decisions the simpler reason that they stay in the drawer of the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy for more than 20 days. All MPs have had the opportunity to get acquainted with our draft decision, with the draft decision of the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and I suppose that since yesterday and with the draft of the ruling majority, of which I believe it is "Democratic Bulgaria" but let me be disproven if they do not support this draft decision submitted by "We continue to change." In this sense, Mr President, you can put this item on the agenda in plenary week and today we must discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u17	Thank you. I will also talk to the Chairman of the Foreign Commission about depositing a report as soon as possible. I don't mean within the day, I mean soon. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u18	Mr. President, my procedure is as follows: we have long been waiting for some reports from the Court of Auditors on the state of the company Can you provide them to us as soon as possible, because everyone is expected to understand what the possible violations committed there are, what are the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, what are the recommendations to the future management of these companies? So please take measures and provide them to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Ivo Atanasov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is for the implementation of your Constitutional and Rule of Procedure powers and the functioning of the National Assembly committees. On 3 February, we voted on a Temporary Committee for Constitutional Changes. From a reference to the website of the National Assembly and from talks with Members of the National Assembly, this committee has not held a single meeting. I will use Mr. Slavov's words that the work of this committee is extremely important for the functioning of the state. I'll explain why. I will also explain why you do not exercise your powers under the Constitution. Chairman of this committee is Mr. Hristo Ivanov. I am not confident that the President of the Commission is willing to make constitutional changes. He used the statement a few days ago supposed to restart the Commission's work. You can't reboot something that hasn't started. [[Noise and lines.]] If he means restarting the reforms he made as a justice minister, and as a result of these reforms, we are now placed in the pathetic situation to pray for Mr. Geshev to leave his post, it is not right and it is not in the interests of the citizens. I am not convinced that, as chairman of this committee, Hristo Ivanov can carry out the tasks for which the Commission is composed. I have a feeling inside that someone who...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u21	The weather, Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u22	...was involved in Borisov's government and failed to make constitutional reforms, which he was told by Mr. Chief...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u23	The weather, Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u24	...and he's been doing crumples in the cross can perform the functions of the Commission. [[Applause and cheering from IHN: "Bravo! "]] So before these bright holidays I will be calm and humble. On 3 March there will be three months from the Commission's establishment, not from the functioning of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u25	Mr. Atanasov, 40 seconds over time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u26	So I'm going to be humble. I will request Mr. Hristo Ivanova's resignation, and on 3 March, our parliamentary group will submit proposals for the closure of the Commission and taking over its functions from the Legal Commission, which I think will do better. [[Reply: May, not March.]] [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov, for this procedure. Yes, of course, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u28	Colleagues, I take the floor for a declaration regarding the decision and proposals relating to the provision of military assistance to Ukraine. I would like to make clear the position of the Democratic Bulgaria. First of all, that we will support only a solution which includes the explicit indication of military aid, military-technical, defence, but certainly with this particularization. This is about a war that started after aggressive illegal aggression by the Putin regime against Ukraine. This war, as we have said many times, is a war on what the international order in Europe will look like. It is by understanding this that all NATO member states, with the exception of Hungary, have already repeated this many times already provided such assistance. Often, the example of Turkey, in which Kiev and Moscow were negotiating, provides a very serious amount of arms to Ukraine. The point that this rule in Bulgaria is part of the war is obviously untenable. The point that in the name of peace was not to provide weapons to Ukraine, developed little, suggests the idea that we should call Ukraine to surrender, because then peace will come immediately, right? However, the Bulgarian national interest requires no peace that will occur as a result of Russia's successful aggression, because in this peace there will be a list of countries that will be subsequent objects of Russian aggression in one way or another. Scared, declared herself small and weak, Bulgaria will be high on this list. We refuse to be part of a policy that shrinks Bulgaria, which makes Bulgaria small-minded with a small soul, small and cowardly, and therefore we will not accept another shoving under the carpet of this topic. I declare here because this has been happening many times since Tuesday, as soon as possible, we will call the coalition council of the coalition and place a rib on this subject to make it really clear that this is not a matter that we can hope to disappear. It's about determining what management we have, whether we have management of fear and degradation, or governance, which understands the new age in which we found ourselves not by choice, but by choice of Putin. And of course, this council will have the opportunity to have the representatives of "There is such a people" to request my resignation from the Constitutional Commission. I will gladly give it to them. But for your information, as I said in a previous statement from the stand, I was trying to find a way to fulfill this committee's original intention to involve representatives of the opposition in its work, so that it could really fulfill its purpose, be a neutral platform for dialogue. Let the political authorities of the coalition decide whether it makes sense in these attempts, or if there is no point in continuing with them at all. Otherwise I would, of course, be very pleased to have such a people shut down the Constitutional Commission. Take care! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Declaration by the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u30	Mr. Chairman, once again we are witnessing a parade of hypocrisy in the National Assembly. However, this is not the first time, of course, in the last few weeks and months, since the war in Ukraine began, we are witnessing this daily parade of hypocrisy in the media, a parade of hypocrisy, however, in the National Assembly. We have been waiting several days to hear comments, as we see this thing being very actively commented in the whole society by the media and also in the National Assembly, I mean the war in Ukraine, because of this we are waiting for several days to hear such comments and violent discussions about another similar war, which is currently going not very far from the Bulgarian border the war in Iraq, where Turkey invaded on Sunday evening in the way Russia invaded Ukraine. Turkey uses infantry, uses tanks, uses armored vehicles, artillery, uses aviation, bombards Iraqi cities and villages populated with Kurds in the way Russians make it one to one. There's no difference! Only the Bulgarian media are silent... shamefully silent! Here the representatives of the Euro-Atlantic wing in Bulgarian politics are also silent. Why? Because Turkey is a Euro-Atlantic country and when it attacks another country, it is not a war, it is a humanitarian operation. Is that why they're quiet? We at ARGUING ask: should we now expect sanctions to be imposed on Turkey because of what it is doing in Iraq one to one with what Russia is doing in Ukraine? There's no difference, I repeat. Are we going to condemn Turkey's invasion? Are we gonna give Iraq some help? Next question: I don't see anyone here caring about the poor children of Iraqi Kurdistan. I don't see anyone here crying from the stands, explaining how brutal Turkish aggression is. Do we condemn the actions of the Turkish government? Are we going to demand military assistance for Iraq and the Kurds in Iraq? I don't see anything like it here. Yesterday, however, I saw something else and not only myself, the whole of Bulgaria saw it, because it was quite long and widely explained and widely shown on the Bulgarian media. I saw the Bulgarian rulers bend before the foreign minister of a foreign country. The foreign minister of a foreign country, who, when asked about war crimes committed by his army, is silent because war crimes are committed in Ukraine, undoubtedly on both sides, because it is war! Unfortunately, in war, everyone does the same thing if they want to win, and both sides want to win. Only in our media and on the part of the Bulgarian governors is given only one view of Ukraine. Yesterday the question of the autonomy of Bulgarians in Ukraine was raised. This has been interpreted by some of the Bulgarian MPs as Russian propaganda. Do you notice the paradox? Asking for autonomy, asking for rights, asking for freedom for your countrymen in another country was Russian propaganda?! I don't know how anyone else hasn't thought that Bulgaria's existence can be interpreted as Russian propaganda according to these same faithful servants of Euro-Atlanticism in Bulgaria?! No word goes on and continues to say about the changed Bulgarian names, that in Ukraine there was and continues to be a kind of revival process. The names of the Bulgarians were changed, the schools of the Bulgarians were closed there. Of course, our propagandists say: how not to, there are on Saturdays and Sundays in the Chitalishtes, only before there were schools in Bulgarian. The first Bulgarian high school in our history is located in Bolgrad, only it is currently not Bulgarian for ten years the training of Bulgarian in it is forbidden, learning only Ukrainian. The Internet is full of videos and evidence of tortured Russian prisoners of war. There are, of course, videos of Russian war crimes. Strangely, however, our society meets and looks and sees only one point of view. When there is one point of view, it means that the state is not a democracy, but a dictatorship is an alphabetical truth! This is precisely why the Bulgarian society has built itself an extremely faithful political compass. It looks as the official media speak, looks at what the government says and knows that the truth is diametrically opposite and different from that. It's high time for the lie and hypocrisy to stop. If we want Ukraine to be given assistance here, we expect to see the same thing with regard to Iraq, only we will not see it. And in the final I conclude with the following thing, in view of the passionate words for the provision of military assistance to Ukraine by representatives of the "Democratic Ukraine" or of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we will support this proposal, but on one condition: if this military assistance is brought to Ukraine by their parliamentary group and their MPs participate as volunteers to help there. I think that will solve two very serious external and internal political problems of Bulgaria and Ukraine. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u31	Before we proceed with the agenda, I will read you the following messages: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly: 1. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, that by its order he authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of a military transport plane with a crew from the Air Force of Brazil. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On the issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the permission to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the State concerned after positive opinions from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2. On the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from 22 April to 18 May 2022, including a multinational exercise will be held, involving soldiers with the necessary weapons, equipment and equipment from the US Armed Forces, including military transport planes with their crews and equipment of Great Britain, Romania, Georgia and the Republic of Bulgaria. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by other The notifications were received on 19 and 20 April 2022. No 47-203-09-39 and 40 were granted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets on 31 December 2021 by the Ministry of Education and Science and the Court of Auditors. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. On 18 April 2022, the National Assembly received an opinion from the Fiscal Council on spring macroeconomic forecast and a draft medium-term budget forecast for 2023. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. Moving on to point one of the day: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. A report came in from the Committee on Education and Science. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u32	"Report on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, No 47-102-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 December 2021, adopted in the first vote on 9 March 2022. The Law on pre-school and school education is amended and supplemented by the Law on pre-school and school education. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elisaveta Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 which is reflected in its systematic place in § 7, point 1, in the new t. 21. Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Simeonov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2 Finally, the implementation of political and party activities is prohibited. 2. The creation of para. 3: (3) In the system of preschool and school education ideologies, doctrines and systems of views and ideas shall be studied to achieve the objectives of art. 5, for the formation of national self-esteem, patriotic spirit and patriotism in children and students and in compliance with state educational standards and educational programs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I am opening a discussion on the title of the Bill and § 1 presented by the President of the Committee on Education and Science. Anyone who wants to make a statement? There are no speakers on the title and § 1. I'm calling off the discussion. It looks like everyone close to the room is already inside, so we're moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the name of the Import Bill and § 1 in the version of the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 101, Against 9, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u34	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 4. Proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elisaveta Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 4. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 3 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 4. Proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elisaveta Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted a decision on eligibility for consideration and voting of the proposal. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217, para. 5 after the words the Code of Labour is added to a regulation issued by the Minister of Education and Science, agreed with the Minister of Youth and Sports and with the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I am opening a discussion on § 2, the Commission's proposal to reject § 3 by importer and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 in the version of the Commission. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we did not support the Bill at first reading. We continue to believe that it remains largely declarative, that it is a front for political dismissals and the intimidation of the system that was made last year, but we must say that proposals have been made between first and second readings, which have eliminated at least the negative effects of this bill. The negative effects were associated with the risk of damaging the educational function. The widespread restriction on the imposition of all ideological beliefs and doctrines risks limiting, creating self-limitations in teachers regarding education, the formation of attitudes and attitudes in children to our surrounding world, because not all ideological beliefs and doctrines are bad or controversial. One part of them has been seen as fundamental values of our society, soldering our society, values to which we must raise children. In this sense, between first and second readings, definitions have been made that eliminate this deficiency, and we, with colleagues from the parliamentary group, who are members of the Committee on Education and Science, have generally supported these proposals. We hope that from now on this law, which has already been amended, will not be used for further political repression, because the best way to depoliticise the system is for all of you, your structures, all of us and our structures to stop having an impact on the Minister of Education, on the heads of regional governments for political production in the system. A text is proposed regarding the selection of directors, which gives the Minister the right to issue a regulation with rules for the selection of directors, which can also be said to be in the direction of better transparency, but of course we will see the rules themselves, how much they will improve the choice. However, we must realize that there are no perfect rules. Whatever rules you make, if there is no self-limitation in political persons, these rules will always be broken. So hopefully this bill is an occasion for all of you to limit your party structures and you yourself to limit yourself, we ourselves to limit ourselves in terms of having a political impact on the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Genov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Valchev, a moment ago you of this tribune made an honest confession accusing some of the rulers of having committed political dismissals. I ask you: how can there be a political dismissal without a political appointment? You yourself know how long this activity in the direction of appointment of executives in education was a super practice and priority of a party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Is there a second line to Krasimir Valchev? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Valchev, long and wide with you we discussed in the Commission all these problems that you have put into place and are clear the principles on which we have laid down, considering the idea of creating a regulation, and it is related to such basic principles as publicity, transparency and control over the work of future directors. In this regard, I believe that you have no reason to doubt that a more detailed norm of activity and the way in which these directors are elected will lead to greater efficiency and to this political neutrality that we have been talking about for the first and second readings. I do not agree with you that this will not lead to improving the efficiency of work and political neutrality in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Antonia Dimitrova for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u42	As you mentioned, Mr. Valchev, between first and second readings, the statement was made that the study of ideologies, doctrines and systems of views and ideas should be implemented only to achieve the objectives of pre-school and school education in compliance with state educational standards and curricula. There is no limitation of pedagogical specialists here. I also support the ban on the development of party and political activities in Bulgarian kindergartens and schools, and the protection from any pressure on children, students and their parents, pedagogical and non-pedagogical specialists, because we know about many cases where there is an organised vote, there are some emails for whom to vote for a particular party. With this law, this will stop, and that is the goal, and there is no room for concern. In this regard, let me just add that the unpoliticized environment ensures that the position and resources of the heads of RVO and of directors and of teachers will not be used to exert political or party influence on the institutions that we have seen in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u44	Thank you. I'll start backwards. Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, no, we didn't say anything different with you. I noted that you listened to our remarks and criticisms that you could limit the educational function, and you proposed this supplement, and you adopted, in principle, my proposal for an addition to the provision that regulates the failure of ideological doctrines. In this sense, I said that the bill improved. We never said we were against depolitization during the first reading of the Bill. However, we doubt that it will happen only with texts, even more so if they are declarative, and I have therefore addressed this to Mr. Simeonov that it is not enough to write good rules, but should change behavior as well. To Mr. Genov's question. I can give you a few hypotheses as to how we can have political dismissals without having political appointments. First of all, we have a lot of directors in the system who are more than 15 years old. Some of them have become municipal councillors of parties, which were not there 15 years ago, an example of the birth of GERB or GERB here is one of the examples. The other example is the head of regional government, has no relation to any political power, has fired as an employer the sister of a party functionary. I'm not saying Vash, it may be to your party functionary, but it may not be to your party functionary, because of incompetence, because of violations, and then your party functionary or other party functionary goes to the minister or the head of regional government and threatens. At the Minister's office, he's demanding the dismissal of the Head of Regional Affairs. Here are just two examples of how we can have political dismissals without having political appointments. Every time the head of regional government doesn't listen to a party functionary without being politically appointed, he risks being politically fired. The same could be true for a school principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u45	I shall put to the vote § 2 which is by importer; the Commission's proposal to reject § 3 by importer and the Commission's proposal to establish a new § 3 by Commission version. We're voting Anblok. They voted 114 MPs: for 101, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u46	Proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elizabeth Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov to create a new § 4. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Antonia Dimitrova, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219 the following additions 1. In para. 2 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. in the performance of their functions under the current legislation to be political and party neutral, not to impose ideological and political beliefs, not to have political or party influence on participants in the educational process and not to use official resources for political or party purposes. 2. The creation of para. 7. . (7) The provision of para. 2, p. 5 shall also apply to persons holding all other positions in the institutions of the pre-school and school education system. According to § 4, there is a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elisaveta Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. There is a proposal of the MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 254 (4) The Head of Regional Management of Education shall be responsible for compliance with art. 11, para. 1 and 2 in educational institutions in the territory of the area concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Hristo Simeonov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. In para. 2 after the word..... functions and.................................................................................................. 2. The creation of para. 4. (4) The Head of Regional Education Management in the performance of his functions under the current legislation shall not be able to carry out political and party activities and shall be obliged to be politically neutral. The Head of Regional Education Management shall not use his position of office to exert political or party influence on the institutions and participants in the educational process and to use official resources for political or party purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I open the discussion under paragraphs 4 and 5 according to the Commission's numbering. Here's your speech, Mrs. Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, the Committee on Education and Science has made efforts to reach maximum consensus. I thank you for the fact that some of our proposals have been accepted. I have an editorial supplement to a text that we have proposed. Paragraph 4 of Article 4. 219, where there is a text: to have no political or party impact on the participants in the educational process, we propose to add it to the educational institution concerned because the limitation of all party and political rights would lead to the violation of the Constitution. Since the idea is not to receive politicisation and participation in an institution by the participants in the educational process of this institution, I think it is correct to supplement with the specificization of this text in the relevant educational institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u49	In § 4, t. 1 which concerns the creation of a new t. 5 in the fourth row after the educational process.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u50	Yes, this text will lead not to interpret a turning and wrong, extending limitation of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. Are there any lines to Mukaddes Nalbant? I can't see. Any other speeches referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5? I can't see either. (Definitions between some of the members of the Education Committee.) Of course, there is no Here's your speech, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thus done, the proposal by Mrs Nalbant poses some risks to operationality in the institutions concerned, because, when in the institution concerned, the relevant footage that operates in it does not carry out this type of activity, it could do it elsewhere, which is dangerous from the point of view that it could practice such an activity at another school, for example, or at another institution, for example, in regional governance. Therefore, we believe that this is not particularly appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines to Plamen Nikolov? A line from Mrs. Nalbant, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't imagine how a teacher or school principal would go and have an impact on teachers, parents at another school? He'll use his authority as a teacher or director. In the text it is explicitly stated: in the performance of its functions, that is to say, while fulfilling its duties in an appropriate educational institution. In the other school or in the other institution, he is neither director nor teacher, he does not perform functions there. Do you understand that we would fall into nonsense if we restricted any rights of teachers or directors when they have the constitutional right to engage in political activity, but definitely not in the school where they work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. Any other lines to Plamen Nikolov? Hristo Simeonov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Very clearly in point. 5 it is said that when performing its functions under the current legislation, the teacher, the director, can be invited to another educational institution where he could afford not to comply with this rule, because he and the other institution are invited to perform one or another activity, can afford political or party activity. So I welcome this speech by our fellow Member, and I support it, and therefore I do not believe that further texts should be added. In the Commission, we have looked at all the details very carefully, we have consulted with lawyers, and I think it is time to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Is there a third line to Plamen Nikolov? I won't. Mr. Nikolov for the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, the idea is not to set a legal precedent. That is, the school, under the School and Preschool Education Act, all institutions are depoliticized, so if we open such a hypothesis, we could also violate the rest of the legislation, not only make changes to that. So let's not do this thing the way it's designed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Is there any other comments? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill worries many people mostly because they have not read the texts carefully enough and because there are a number of media speculations about it. Therefore, I have a request to Mrs. Irena Anastasova or to ask academic Denkov to come out and in the right text to say so that it is heard by the Bulgarian voters that this law does not restrict the teachers, the people of the system of Bulgarian education to be members of political parties, to appear in elections for municipal councilors, for mayors, for MPs and at all to exercise their normal political rights outside their workplace. This is a request, as the goal is ultimately to do something good, not create a tool for witch hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u61	And thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines for Peter Nikolov? Krasimir Valchev, come in, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u62	Mr. Nikolov, the fact is that there are no such provisions in the Law, but it is also a fact that there are such concerns, misunderstandings in much of the pedagogical community. I've also been in contact with a lot of teachers, principals, deputy directors, and this has been shared. In this sense, I join your words. There is indeed a need, although the Law itself is a text and it can be read from such a clear statement, perhaps from the Minister of this tribune or from the President of the Commission, that this does not result in a restriction of other rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Is there any other lines? Plamen Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I feel like I'm already at déjà vu. We saw this before, when we talked about the first reading of the Law, all these arguments were discussed. Nobody's against teaching ideology at school. It cannot be otherwise meaningful unless it is taught in history classes, for example. We're talking about not practicing ideology. These are two different things, and everyone, I hope, in this House we know the difference. There are state educational standards against which it is known how the teacher looks and sounds neutral when talking about ideology, but he is obliged to teach it. That's what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u65	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Is there another line to Mr. Nikolov? Hristo Simeonov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I will be a little ahead of events, as very early in time, looking at this bill, this question has also been asked. Mr. Valchev knows very well that in the end we have determined what this party activity and political activity is with some very clear definitions, so I will ask you to read them and then it will become clear to everyone what it will mean at school to conduct party activity or political activity. Then no such questions will arise. Let us get to the end of this bill, look at these texts, and it will all become clear how they are defined, what the restrictions are, and whether there are any of the electoral rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u67	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u68	Mr. Simeonov, we have read the texts to the end, obviously we know what we are going to vote and I think that all those who attended the meetings of the Committee on Education have witnessed that the opposition was as constructive as possible all along, supported all good ideas and made good proposals. In general, the Committee on Education in the previous Parliament and in this Parliament is very rarely a place of political clash, usually a territory of expert debate. The reason I ask is that when we adopt a law here, it echoes in a certain way in Bulgarian society. I've got information about cases, and I think we all have information about cases when people walk, flash this bill, threaten and so on. My request is that the Minister of Education simply send a message to the Bulgarian teachers and tell them that they will not be persecuted politically. Because even if the people who put these texts into this law don't have that intention, there is such a concern in society. I say this, it is a request to Minister Denkov, who, once again, is one of the ministers in the government, who enjoy the most constructive approach by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. For a procedure in the manner of holding Mustafa Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u70	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Mr. President, I will ask you, when MPs speak from the stand on various bills, not to come up with calls for declarations or statements from the stands for clarification of texts on bills. Dear Members of Parliament, neither statements nor declarations will eliminate the various interpretations. When there are ambiguities in texts and different interpretations of different texts, instead of calling for statements and declarations, we must make sure that these texts have an accurate record, there is, if necessary, another text or other texts that clarify the differences and leave no doubt even about different interpretations and different understandings. So, Mr. Chairman, this is my request. If there is really a situation in which we even leave doubts and opportunities for different interpretations, now is the time when the bills are being reviewed, to get their proper editing. Even at second reading in the hall, if necessary, editing can be done on the texts so that the meaning is clear and we leave no doubt about various interpretations after the adoption of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. And I appeal for a quality legislative process, of course. Mr. Mihailov, for procedure, for speech? Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Academician Denkov, Dear colleagues! I will fully join at the beginning of my speech in the words of the chairman of the DPS parliamentary group Mustafa Karadayi that it is indeed seemed to me even inappropriate that the proposal to go out on the stand and make declarations that there will be no witch hunt that there will not be this or that. It was said here by the colleague quite clearly that in the final parts of the Draft Law there are detailed things that clarify the problems about whether it is possible or impossible to somehow change the spirit and letter of the law and to abuse a teacher. Another colleague I will quote here Mr. Nikolov, this was the purpose of my speech, Mr. Minister, to stop taking the role of déjà vu. This is not the first reading of the Law, this is the particular second reading, there are specific paragraphs. All the time talking about how it echoes when thunder strikes, how echo fades into society, how people are intimidated by this bill, it's not serious. It has certain objectives, they are quite democratic and in the spirit of our community in the European Union, and I think we should move on constructively, as Mr. President of the National Assembly said, and we should complete this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u73	Thank you, Professor. Are there any lines for Georgi Mihaylov? Here you go, Mrs. Nalbant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Mihailov! These definitions, which are given at the end of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education, do not guarantee that a teacher or school director cannot be elected as municipal councilors. And when there is a municipal policy in the field of education, they cannot hold meetings with very noble intentions in other institutions, in other places outside the school where they work. The definitions, first of all, they don't belong in this law, and second of all, even if they're right and true, they don't give that guarantee. We are talking about educational policies both at national level and at municipal level. If teachers and directors are limited in drawing them up, in carrying out their respective levels, it will be a real violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Nalbant. I can see two more lines. Here you are, Mrs. Dimitrova for the second line, and Mr. Nikolov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u76	The changes clearly do not violate the rights of those working in the education system to be members of parties and to be elected. This has been repeatedly stated by the stands, including by the Minister of Education and Science, that this bill will not violate the constitutionally guaranteed right of every head of the RVO, director, teacher to be elected as municipal councillor, mayor, MP. Please do not cause panic and fear in those working in the educational field that they will be chased, fired because we know which political party is a huge part of the country's directors. The proposed amendments to the Bill regulate the appointments of directors and experts in regional education departments to be carried out on the basis of their professional and leadership qualities and competences regardless of their party affiliation. The important thing is to prove professionals, not to use their position and service resources to achieve party goals. That is the point of this bill, it was underlined when we were looking at it at first reading, so I suggest we move on to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Third line, Mr. Nikolov, would you like? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The local parliament is a place where local politics are being made. Nobody forbids it from this law, nor the Constitution, nor any other legal act. The idea, I repeat, once again is that it is not possible for the person who is engaged in political activity to be rehabilitated in some way from one school to transition to another, since in his place of employment, he has no right to do that, not to start doing it elsewhere. That's the idea, Mrs. Nalbant. So this text is a little bit hypothetically unprecise, if I may say so. That is why we have not negotiated it at all to the Commission, we have not discussed it, and it is not right in my opinion that we should continue to insist that it enters this bill in the form of a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Do you want a hole, Professor Mihailov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Honorable Academician Denkov, the two lines of the speech, the last and last, repeat the same thesis that I have allowed myself to share from the stand, so I see no point in doing the whole room with this anymore. Things have been cleared up. Who interprets a law as the Gospel is interpreted by someone, so we will not escape from it. You can always make interpretations, you can always find fault, as the old Bulgarians say, of something. She worked pretty well on the Commission. This has also been reported by its members here who have spoken, so I think we should move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u81	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, let me tell you how the votes are going to go. First of all, we will put to the vote the proposal of MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Then we will put to the vote Mrs Nalbant's editorial proposal and then move on to the basic texts of § 4 and § 5. Colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, I put to the vote the proposal of MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. He's not supported. That is what is stated in the report, Mrs. Nalbant, the proposal of your colleague Petar Chobanov. To create a new para. 4. Voting mode. Vote 134 MPs: 25 against 95 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Mrs Mukaddes Nalbant's editorial proposal, namely in the proposal to create a new § 4 of this article. 1 to create t. 5 which must be created after the educational process to add the relevant educational institution. Voting mode. They voted 137 MPs: 24, Against 99, abstentioned 14. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the texts read by Mrs Anastass, namely to create a new § 4 and § 4 by importer, which becomes § 5, which is in the version of the Commission. Voting mode. They voted 135 MPs: 113 against 22, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova. Let's continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u82	Under § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elisaveta Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Hristo Simeonov, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is . (5) An employee in regional education management in the performance of his functions under the legislation in force may not engage in political and party activities and is obliged to be politically neutral. The employee cannot use his position of office to exert political or party influence on the institutions and participants in the educational process and to use official resources for political or party purposes. Under § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs: supposed to be in a position to be in a position The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Irena Anastasova, Plamen Nikolov, Elisaveta Belobradova and Hristo Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. New t. is being created. 21 and 22: ..21. "Party activity" is any activity carried out on behalf of and/or at the expense of a political party registered under the terms and conditions of the Law on Political Parties, or of a coalition or committee of initiative registered for elections under the terms and conditions of the Election Code, or of persons setting political goals and engaged in political activities which are solely inherent in political parties. 22. "Political activity' is an activity aimed at acquiring state power or influenceing its redistribution, including through propaganda and agitating activities for political purposes in favour or to the detriment of political parties, movements or coalitions, as well as candidates for electoral posts. 2. Previously on "T." 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 become ct 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u83	Please read the proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u84	Okay. Proposal of the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs: A new paragraph 7 shall be created with the following content: In § 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on pre-school and school education (prom., SG No. 82 from 2020) the words "Study 2020' and "Study 2021' shall be replaced by "Study 2021' and "Study 2022' and "Study 2022'. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adopted a decision on the admissibility of the proposal and did not examine and vote on the substance, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. I am opening a discussion on the so read texts, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. More than an hour ago, two of the Parliamentary Groups in the Chamber of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly asked, under the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly to propose a new item in plenary on the agenda, namely: Examine and discuss three draft decisions which were examined yesterday by the Committee on Foreign Policy. So far, Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Policy has not yet submitted a report on the three drafts examined. Mr President, once again, I appeal to you, I urge you to enter into your role and role to invite the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy in the fastest way to submit this report to the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly and to schedule as point 2 of today's Programme for the work of the National Assembly in plenary consideration of these three projects. I believe that everyone in plenary has a position formed. This formed position was formed not within 24 hours from yesterday's meeting to today's, but well before that, because, again, I stress that GERB submitted such a proposal on 30 March, the Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) submitted such a proposal on 1 April..................................................................... Mr President, please enter into your role and function and make such a proposal to change the agenda and include these drafts for a decision to discuss in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First of all, we are voting on the proposal for § 5 made by Parliamentary Representative Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission Vote 154 MPs: 41, against 101, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Petar Chobanov and a group of MPs for § 6, namely § 6 to be dismissed. Vote 154 MPs: 49, against 97, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I now put to the vote Anblock § 5 in the version of the Commission and becomes § 6 § 6 in the version of the Commission and becomes § 7. Vote 160 MPs: 115, against 33, abstention 12. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Bill is also exhausted. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank all coalition partners and parties involved in the coalition for voting positively at first reading. Because if they hadn't voted then, we wouldn't have come to this moment when this law was passed and we did a useful thing. Secondly, I would also like to thank the opposition that when I see that this law is willing to be adopted, it is included constructively. I would say that I am not alone as a minister of good treatment to the opposition, I, as a minister, have been extremely constructive and will treat all the proposals, regardless of where they come from, including from the opposition, when we can do something useful. The bill, which with this vote became a Law, is indeed a common work of all parties participating in the National Assembly, perhaps with the exception of one. Therefore, I would like to thank you for this participation that has helped to improve the quality of the final law. I hope that this example will also be used in other votes on all topics related to education and even better on other topics. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Honourable Members, we continue with the next item on the agenda, namely with item two of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYMENT DEPRECTION. Importers are Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. A statement was made by Georgi Georgiev from the parliamentary group of AGE. People's representatives Sevim Ali, Alexandra Korcheva, Iskren Arabadzhiev and Krasimir Valchev are recorded for speech. Mr. Ali, would you like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group will support the Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, as in the findings in the Employment Agency's report from mid-March, to put it mildly, honourable Members, are startling. It turns out that over 900,000 Bulgarian citizens between the ages of 16 and 65, notice, neither study nor work nor are registered in the employment offices, with 170 thousand of them young people between 16 and 29 years of age. The main reason for this is that these 900 000 Bulgarian citizens of working age, who, again, say neither study nor work nor are registered in the labour bureaus, indicate the lack of skills, indicate health problems, family barriers or barriers due to geographical distance. Firstly, we in the Parliamentary Group of "Action for Rights and Freedoms" will support this bill because it, firstly, regulates the information connectivity between the Employment Agency and the institutions for analysis, search and contact with people of working age who, due to lack of skills and other barriers, cannot benefit from the employment agency's services in order to find work. You know, honourable Members, that Bulgaria is currently facing a number of challenges, especially in the labour market. You know, we're not talking about a demographic crisis right now. We're talking about a demographic disaster. In this sense, the population of Bulgaria is decreasing much faster than other member states of the European Union. We, therefore, of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, believe that these people are a serious reserve to occupy the niche in the labour market. Our second motive and argument to support the bill is that it enables these people to obtain a certificate to validate their knowledge and skills, thus being a little more competitive in the labour market. Of course, the parliamentary group of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" we reserve our right between first and second readings to make proposals for amendments to the texts of the Employment Promotion Act. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines, colleagues, to Mr. Ali's statement? I can't see. Alexandra Korcheva is recorded for speech. I don't see her in the room. Mr. Arabadzhiev is also listed for speech. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to say that the bill in this form has been developed with the active participation of experts in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Employment Agency. We have convinced the Commission that the solution is a good one. The creation of this register will give a good tool to the Employment Agency to gather more information about people why they are inactive and, accordingly, to develop the mechanisms by which we can activate these people and bring them back to the labour market or to include them in the educational system. We have also convinced ourselves that there is a need for several changes, preciseing texts with regard to the information to be submitted and united in the register, which institutions to be involved in the submission of the information, so that indeed the register is working. So our group will support it at first reading and, within the first and second votes, we will table some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u93	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? I can't see. Mr. Valchev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The biggest challenge facing socio-economic development in the next maybe 10 years will be the shortage of people, the shortage of workforce. The young people who will enter the labour force's table will be only two thirds of those who will retire, who will come out of the labour force's table. This means an annual shortage of over 40 thousand people, for a 10-year period of 400-500 thousand people, without taking into account the effect of net external migration. This will seriously hinder socio-economic development, investment. On the other hand, we have, as stated in the reasons for the bill, a very, very large number of people who neither study nor work. Are the current active policies active enough? No! No, because a large part of them are mooded to the situation from 15 years ago when there was a large unemployment rate. If today we are going to have a shortage, 15 years ago we had unemployment and you rely on the activity of job demand by the unemployed, but today, on the one hand, we have a shortage, on the other hand, we have people who are neither learning nor working, showing a low tendency to work. We have many faces of those who, by the way, I am convinced are abroad. I'll give you an example. What is being proposed with today's bill is similar to what we did in the education system. The care for the scope of the children was given to the municipalities by law. You know, municipalities are responsible for implementing 130 legal acts only, separately are regulations and everyone else, they have a small resource, they can't handle it, and the right to education of the child is his right to a happy, full, meaningful life, a right that parents do not always guarantee, parents who lack respect for education. Therefore, the mechanism makes it possible to monitor the exercise of the right to education of each child interinstitutional mechanism, because it turns out that human resources policies very often fall into an interinstitutional vacuum. People are jumping from system to system, mobile today in today's open world and this makes it difficult to track their involvement in various social and other systems, making exercising their rights and duties difficult to trace. In this sense, this bill takes a significant step towards traceability, which will enable even more active than the current active policies. I hope that from then on a genuine inter-institutional mechanism will be made, of course, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with the Employment Agency, not only for the exchange of information, but also for those individuals to be sought, to be persuaded. What was done on the mechanism in the education system? A child goes abroad, comes back, but no system identifies him. As here,.. has not been identified by a formal training system, by an organised training system, has not been identified by the employment agency system. Then, for example, the mayor of the village or someone else reports to the team for coverage and the team is activated immediately. I hope we have the same mechanism here, to get the same activity. The proposed legislative amendments and additions are a prerequisite, a condition for this thing to happen and would help us overcome this most significant challenge to the socio-economic development that we will have in the coming years. In this sense, I congratulate the importers. I thank those and everyone else who supported the Bill without participating in the discussion and without being an importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u95	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines, colleagues, to that statement? Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Valchev, you are right because in the proposals we propose in the Employment Promotion Act, there is one text that the creation of this register will be with the assistance of the regional employment authorities, which are in fact the authorities in the areas implementing the state employment policy. These are, in fact, the district development councils and, in particular, the Employment Committee of the Regional Administration, which actually involve municipal administrations, representatives of the Ministry of Education, representatives of the nationally represented bodies of employers, employees, state institutions, so that is the mechanism that you say you applied to inclusive education, here in practice must be applied in the same way in order to have some efficiency and quality of services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I can't see. For the back, Mr. Valchev? You don't want to. Before we continue with the speeches, just one message to read to you, colleagues. In the break of the plenary session, which will be given at 11.30, a photo exhibition will be opened at the European Corner of the National Assembly under the title "Stop the War in Ukraine." It is organized by the Embassy of Ukraine in Bulgaria and by the MP Elisaveta Belobradova. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Thank you for your attention. Mr. Alexander Alexandrov was enrolled for a speech, then Dr. Ademov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to take account of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act submitted by Ms. Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. I join the colleagues who have spoken so far in their support for his adoption at first reading and especially these practical aspects, which Mrs. Zhekova and now Mr. Valchev have brought here. In the last 10 years, unemployment has been low in Bulgaria and we all know that. At the same time, according to the data of the statistician, reflected also in the motives of the Bill, hundreds, thousands of citizens of different ages for different reasons, of course, do not work. Some are objective, others are subjective, but there is one category of 170 thousand people addressed by the proposed amendments and additions to the Bill. These are people, speaking directly, who have fallen out of the labour market and without perspective, with deepening marginalization, although some of them have certain skills and competences. The point of the proposals in the Draft Law is that they meet the need to improve these proposals and state policy and, above all, to involve a larger number of state institutions, to a better interinstitutional mechanism, to introduce more responsibilities towards them for the realization of as many of these citizens on the labour market through the introduction of a better legal search, mediation and vocational training mechanism. There may be certain objections to this type of policy, but I would like to point out that in recent years this has been a total-taken first face-to-face conversion and the first proposal in terms of employment in contrast to multiple discussions, decision-making on updating and introducing new forms of social services covering all categories of citizens. We should not forget that the two countries are particularly important in terms of the functions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the issue of employment and labour law. In my opinion, three are the main problems and the draft law is facing them. First of all is the task of a permanent, thorough and better organized survey of labour resources. There are also proposals in one of the members as an element of active state policy for a more complete study, and hence for forecasting the labour market, because without study there can be no such forecasting on the labour market. Secondly, a significant improvement in the coordination between state institutions at all levels to regional structures, regional structures, including local self-government for the exchange of reliable information about inactive persons, which will allow labour offices to make contact with this group of citizens of the country. Thirdly, the obligation to validate the work acquired in any way or self-study, qualification or competence. This is the most essential part of the proposals, but it cannot be realised without the introduction of the proposed legal norms for solving the second objective.. improving coordination between state institutions at all levels, exchanging reliable information on inactive persons of residence, establishing a register and so on. I believe that if the Law is adopted and some proposals on the second reading texts resulting from certain opinions of the institutions will open up opportunities to a large group of citizens of the country who cannot find realization, and not only because of lack of desire. I understand the doubts of some colleagues, we know what is meant and which groups of people we are talking about above all else, but as a state and a society, I think that these people simply cannot be left alone and deepen the problems. Here, I will conclude with this, even more so, that there is good practice in terms of attracting tens of thousands of students, which has already been spoken of. Personally, I and my parliamentary group have expressed their opinion that the draft law is good and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u99	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Do you have any lines, colleagues? I can't see. Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act, and there are probably not many colleagues here in the Chamber who know that 15 years ago this law was said: Law on protection against unemployment and promotion of employment. Why am I saying this? Because if protection measures were dominated then, now the more modern measures are the incentive measures so that a part of Bulgarian citizens who neither study nor work, the so-called NEET group, can somehow return to the labour market. As the main task, of course, is to identify this group, because they are not very popular in society, and although they know them, institutions are far from their problems and hard to reach them. I would like to recall a National Strategy, and the strategic documents in Bulgaria are very important "National Employment Strategy 2021" - 2030, in which as a country we have set goals, one of the goals is that the economic activity rate for individuals between 15 and 64 years will be 77.7%. The European criterion is 75% and we have set a slightly higher target, stressing that in 2020, this coefficient is 72.2%. If we achieve the objectives of the proposed bill, we can fulfil the objectives of the National Strategy. Moreover, we have set a target in this strategic document lowering the proportion of individuals between 15 and 29 years to 15%. It is about those who are not employed and in 2020 this percentage is 18.1%. Why am I saying this? Because these national strategic documents are accepted for this in order to be able to have indicators of their control and possibly take measures. With regard to this bill, it is because nine institutions in Bulgaria, which are mentioned in the Bill, may be able to exchange information with the Employment Agency. Of course, this is extremely important because the Employment Agency can group these individuals on certain grounds and on the basis of this opportunity to propose separate policies, separate employment measures and individual decisions for individual groups. However, there are several problems. There is a directive concerning the exchange of information containing personal data. When it comes, for example, to the NELK, the National Medical Expert Commission, this committee in its register contains extremely sensitive information, which is related to the health of Bulgarian citizens, i.e. besides personal data, there is also information about health. It is not a coincidence in the directive that there is an opportunity to exchange information that is of public importance, that is, this information must in some way be clearly stated in the Bill in order that there is no concern that there may be a leak of information in an unregulated way. This is the challenge between first and second readings, because if we allow the employment agency to have the entire database of information from individual institutions, there may be problems. Only those who are able to be personal data controllers must have access to this sensitive information. There is no reason why there is a explicit text in the Bill that allows this register to be.. Let's call it a closed text, not to be publicly available. I think this issue can be resolved between first and second readings, so there are no concerns, because in one of the opinions of Dr. Raychev by NELK is mentioned about this. In order for there to be no concern, information to be exchanged must be framed. In terms of validating knowledge, skills and competences, enough things have been said here. I would like to remind you that this is about validating knowledge, skills and competences that have once been acquired, and this is not about a new opportunity. This is very important to clarify, because immediately problems start with what vocational education, training and so on. Of course, the role of the Bulgarian-German centers for vocational education and training is extremely important. Last but not least, I must also mention the so-called mediators, health mediators, labour mediators who also have the competence to search for this group, because the most important thing is to track down these people. In the Commission, I also mentioned youth centres and there are still such youth centres in some of the municipalities that can also help. This team that Mr. Valchev was talking about just now is extremely important. If there is such a team to be structured on the basis of people with different competences, different views, things can be more structured. Last but not least, I would like to mention something that, in my opinion, the practice shows that it is extremely important without the local authorities, without the mayors of the settlements, without the mayors of municipalities, it is difficult to look for the successful incorporation of this segment of the labour market and be included as a reserve. You see national statistics what they say: if unemployment is 4.5% at the end of the last quarter of last year, it is obvious that the problem is not unemployment, but the problem is the employed. In order for workers to have enough serious claims to generate gross domestic product, the number of employees needs to be increased and not only the unemployment rate to be low, but the employment rate to be increased. In this sense, this reserve is extremely important in order to be able to meet both the objectives set in the national strategic document and the willingness of employers to hire people with any qualifications. There's a need for employers to have access to these people. If the Employment Agency with this register identifies them and supports them in a serious enough way, I think things will come together.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, are there any lines to this statement? I can't see. I will make only one clarification regarding the message I read just now, namely about the organization of the exhibition: the stop of the war in Ukraine. Besides the national representative Elisaveta Belobradova, the entire parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria" has also supported. For speech is recorded Denitsa Sacheva. Mrs. Sacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, allow me to thank on behalf of our parliamentary group and on behalf of myself personally, for the fact that the Bill is receiving support because, indeed, as all my colleagues have said before me, it is extremely important in terms of solving a problem that we have, which, until recently, we thought we were only talking about 170 thousand young people aged between 18 and 25, who neither study nor work, but with the latest data that came out of the Employment Agency, the European Commission, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, this problem has become much bigger. We are talking about almost 900,000 Bulgarians who neither study nor work for different reasons. Over time and over the years, the Employment Agency, due to a number of legal constraints, could reach only 5 thousand people out of all those we are talking about being in this situation, while this indicator of young people who are neither learning nor working is one of the indicators that determine the economic development of each country, so that a change in this indicator, an improvement of this indicator would also lead to an improvement of our country's place in a number of rankings both of the European Commission and of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In practice, with our proposal to enable the Employment Agency to obtain information from a number of other institutions to which it has not yet been able to make this register and therefore to identify by name who all these people are we are talking about, where they are located, with what degree of education they are, which are the reasons why they are not covered either in the education system or in the labour market and that additional active policies can be developed. With the second part of our proposal we propose to give opportunity because every person has skills, each person carries within himself a certain potential, to do exactly this validation of existing skills in these people, because one part of these people work in the gray sector, another part of them deal with home care. They could safely be covered as half professions in caretakers or as part of a profession for a social worker including being able to also benefit the social and health system. Of course, there are many other hypotheses. Employers have also expressed their support on the proposed bill and have given some valuable proposals. The draft has also received support in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, so I believe that really between first and second readings can be clarified the issues raised during the discussions in the Commission will also be reflected the proposals of the various institutions and organizations and we will be able to adopt all together a law that will be socially useful and which will contribute to a very serious policy in terms of promoting employment and in terms of making more people in Bulgaria feel realized and contribute accordingly to the well-being of the Bulgarian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u103	And thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. For speech Alexandra Korcheva and then Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the colleagues who spoke before me. Yes, Mrs. Sacheva, you correctly mentioned the actual updated data that the OECD report, which was published on March 15th, actually showed, and that is why we really believe that what we are discussing today is important. Bulgaria faces structural challenges related to employment, which require long-term strategic actions and policies to improve the effectiveness of labour market policies. A recent report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, as Mrs. Sacheva mentioned, on reaching inactive and unemployed persons in Bulgaria and their activation and integration into the labour market, published on 15 March 2022, notes that the number of unemployed or economically inactive adults at work age in Bulgaria exceeds 900 thousand people. The report also notes that the development of policies for the management of economically inactive persons has made some progress in the years before the pandemic, but is still lagging behind the other countries in the European Union and the OECD. We believe that this process is of great importance to the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian citizens and that there should be systematic and strategic long-term efforts to overcome the challenges in the field of integration of inactive people in the labour market. At present, different recommendations are made to Bulgaria for measures in the field, including: strengthening support for vulnerable groups; specific active labour market policies related to the main barriers; improving ways to reach people in need of support; adapting the customer's path in order to ensure optimal support; maximum use of technologies to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the employment assistance provided by the Agency; and regular monitoring and evaluation of active labour market policies. This bill proposes amendments to the Employment Promotion Act, which are prepared within a certain period of time, being consistent with the long-term strategic policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which expressed its support for its adoption in its opinion. The draft plans to introduce a change in the exchange of information between the institutions in order to identify the economically inactive persons at working age in Bulgaria and to assign additional functions to the Employment Agency for the activation of the same functions for inclusion in the labour market. As the proposed change is in line with the needs identified by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency, we continue to agree with the proposed changes to the integration of the information systems of the institutions and the creation of pro-active policies of the Employment Agency, as long as it is in line with national and European data management provisions. In this situation is provided in the Bill, Mr. Ademov also spoke on this topic, and as long as there is actual optimization of the information connectivity between the institutions. The bill also provides for changes related to the acquisition of a first degree professional qualification within the meaning of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. On yesterday, there were colleagues who spoke their views on this issue. In its opinion, the Ministry of Education and Science stressed that the so proposed framework for the parallel implementation of the process of literacy and the acquisition of professional qualifications can be difficult to carry out, which is why we believe that the texts should be refined between first and second readings and once the relevant inter-departmental coordination is carried out, if possible, to achieve the optimal arrangements in this regard. We support the three main ideas of the Draft, namely greater information connectivity between the institutions; the creation of proactive policies and actions of the Employment Agency to consult and encourage inactive persons to join the labour market; also this educational element, as long as it is re-coordinated interinstitutional. So thank you very much for the constructive debate so far. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Korcheva! I fully agree with the things you have said, and the subject is undoubtedly extremely important to our society, but in your speech you stressed too much on vulnerable groups and those who need literacy and qualifications. I would like to mention here that, in fact, this group is not homogeneous at all. As Mrs. Sacheva said in her speech, these are people who have different levels of education, different competences and from what I have seen in my humble practice - three years of teaching entrepreneurship to unemployed, inactive persons, there is actually a group that are people with good education, with a lot of experience, but for one reason or another they are going through some transformation in their lives. Some of them are also focused on having their own business, i.e. on the topic of Entrepreneurship. I think that we should not forget this topic, because it is also very big and this is a huge opportunity for our economy to develop, and not just to look for an opportunity for these people to be employees somewhere, but to be the leaders of a future development. So besides the literacy, the acquisition of some qualification, here I would definitely add the possibility of entrepreneurship training. In this regard, I would like to share that, apart from, of course, all agencies that inevitably need to be involved with this important and big topic, employers who also have an essential role to play here must not forget the role of the non-governmental sector, as there are organisations that are engaged precisely in promoting employment in one form or another and in informal education. As one, of course, from the many examples I can mention, I suppose you are familiar with the possibilities that provide, for example, art. 47 and 49, which may be applied for by unemployed persons to finance their own business. It's just that the labor desks, in practice, what I see three years in a row... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Search": "Search!"]] I'm done, thank you. ...mostly for the fact that these organizations can actually help future business people draw up their business plan so that they can apply better to the employment bureaus. So I call on us to just think about this group in its entirety and diversity, and not just about certain segments. Thank you. I apologize for crossing the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Are there any other lines? No. For the doppelganger, you have the floor, Mrs. Korcheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova, for this reminder that really economically inactive persons cannot and should not be restricted. They are not limited only to certain vulnerable groups, and I really thank you for providing this other view of the opportunities that the envisaged change provides. And not only that we really should, I think we are all of the same opinion that it is very good to work towards introducing the best possible policies to activate inactive people on the labour market, regardless of what demographic category they belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Aleksandar Ivanov to speak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am pleased to note the support of the majority of the House to the bill presented to our attention by Mrs. Sacheva and a group of MPs. I will try to be as brief as possible and bring each other's nuance to the speeches as to why we should support this bill. The two parts of the bill, colleagues, as many times both colleagues who are deeper in the social sphere and in the labour legislation, mentioned it, is really the existing toolkit to upgrade it, to enable better interaction from one point of view of the institutions at the moment with a natural complement of existing data sets with one goal only to attract more Bulgarian citizens in one form or another, who are currently not employed or in the grey sector, to be able Bulgarian, so to say, employers to take advantage of this labour resource. From another point of view, naturally, and this labour inclusion of these almost 900,000 citizens in the labour market would also lead to tax payments, where the state would, naturally, be able to have more money in the implementation of government policies, naturally, and labour, and social, educational, health and whatever, but to say something else, colleagues. Bulgaria's economy had a conservatively high, ahead of Europe's average growth in gross domestic product until before the conflagration of the pandemic, and then the Bulgarian employers, the Bulgarian economy suffered from a single one, I say it in quotes, a major problem and this is the labour force. These people, one part of whom are not known to the labour bureaus, and another part, to which the second part of the bill gives them the opportunity to obtain some degree and some document that can give the employer the basis for hiring them, recognising some of their qualifications or skills, or knowledge to contribute to the development of the labour market so that the Bulgarian economy does not experience this shortage of labour, which would naturally lead to an increase in gross domestic product. All these factors, colleagues, which I mention, and which have listed and spoken of, suggest only one thought, this is a bill that deserves the support of this House as quickly as possible. Naturally, if there are constructive proposals between first and second reading, to upgrade this bill and give this toolkit to the Bulgarian state, to give this toolkit to the Bulgarian employers to move the economy forward. This, of course, is the main objective of any economy. Reaching one maximum, which, I say again, was above the European average by 5. 6%, Bulgaria's economy was growing before the Kosovo crisis, and then Bulgarian employers in meetings at their forums, in interviews and in meetings with MPs said: we do not have enough people to employ to develop our production and increase our capacity. We had Europe's open market with great consumption. The Bulgarian economy was export oriented. 60% of gross domestic product before the crisis was formed by exports. So I think this is a good step, a good decisive step, which we courageously with legislative change can take today. Therefore, colleagues, I count on your support and support of this House to vote on this bill for the Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line, Mr. Mitev? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, we continue to support this bill, which once again proves that the opposition's accusations that we are not constructive and do not hear their good proposals are false. [[Noise and lines.]] We hear good suggestions, and we've always been there for them. This is in the direction that the ruling coalition is currently creating a whole new level of governance in Bulgaria. It is not a level at which everything is giving up, but a level of acceptance of good proposals. So, yes, Mr. Ivanov, as well as in the budget, we accepted, in my memories, 13, over 10 opposition proposals. By supporting this proposal, we show that we are the rulers who are listening to good proposals. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other lines? Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u114	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Just one sentence, since I'm a member of the Social Committee. Everything Mr. Ivanov said is true. It's right. This will give the country a greater opportunity to increase its gross product, meet the demands of employers who feel and suffer from labour shortages. But there is another effect that I would like to say again here, I mentioned it briefly at the same time, it is a question of promoting employment in labour law, and it solves social issues for a large part of the people who are just left behind and marginalize themselves. Our country as a social state must work on this. They just can't be left behind. In various forms, with different efforts, above all of state policy, this issue must be resolved not only in these areas. Validation helps work desks to also be able to enter these functions, to make contacts and these people to work and study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Is there a third line? No. A hole, Mr. Ivanov? No. Other speeches, colleagues, are there any? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I suggest we vote, and then I announce the break. I think we'll be able to make it by 11:30 so that everyone who wants to attend the opening of the exhibition can be there. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. [[Heckling]] Let us, however, allow fellow Members who wish to support it to formally do so. [[Heckling]] My fellow Members, I am putting to the first vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. They voted 146 MPs: 135, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, break till 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u116	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. We continue with item three of the National Assembly Work Programme, namely: LETTER OF OFFER AND ACCEPTANCE (LOA) BU-B-UCH RADIO COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. There's a report from the Defence Committee. Mr. Zafirov, you have the floor to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of a Letter of Offer and Adoption BU-B-UCH Radio Communication Equipment (Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) BU-B-UCH Radio Communications Equipment), No 47-202-02-8 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022. At a meeting held on 7 April 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Defence Mr. Dragomir Zakov. The International Treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCH is signed by the Bulgarian side on 28 February 2022 on the basis of Decision No 80 of the Council of Ministers of 2022 under the conditions of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the Bulgarian country the Treaty will enter into force from the day of notification of the implementation of the Bulgarian procedures for its entry into force. Treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCH is related to the implementation of three of the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army as follows: - Project "Modernization of T-72 for the needs of tank formations of Land Troops" - Project "Increasing mobility and protection of personnel from special operations forces" - Project "Increasing mobility and the protection of personnel of a maritime tactical group for special operations." In connection with the implementation of these projects, the Ministry of Defence must provide delivery of radio-communication equipment with a built-in crypto-module for the exchange of classified information classified at NATO SECRET level of the type Without the delivery of this equipment, the modernization projects will not be realized in relation to the set parameters as a result of which the Bulgarian Army will not acquire the necessary capabilities. According to US government regulations, these radio stations are classified equipment and can only be acquired under the US FMS (Foreign Military Sales). The FMS contracts are essentially international government-type public contracts. The contract (LOA) BU-B-UCH provides for the acquisition of radio communication equipment for the modernisation of T-72 tanks from the composition of the Land Forces, for armored and command vehicles of the SCC and the cars of the Marine Special Intelligence Unit of the composition of the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria for a total of USD 17 221 512 without VAT and other related charges. The amount due under the Treaty must be paid in accordance with the financial plan set out therein: payment of an initial advance after the entry into force of the same for the Republic of Bulgaria and regular quarterly contributions. The total amount under the Treaty must be paid before the completion of the basic supplies under it. Payment under the Treaty will be made after the completion of our national procedures for the entry into force of the Treaty under the rules of the US Foreign Military Sales Programme by bank transfer on the schedule set out in the Treaty. With subsequent correspondence between the Ministry of Defence and the US side will be specified the necessary additional bank charges to make the payment. Chairman Atanas Zafirov and Vice-Presidents Blagovest Belev, Hristo Gajev and Alexander Alexandrov took part in the discussion. Following the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 16 votes for a vote, without votes, the Defence Committee proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of a letter of offer and acceptance of BU-B-UCH radio-communication equipment (supplied by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022) BU-B-UCH Radio Communications Equipment, No 47-202-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I'm opening a discussion on this point. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Mitov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u119	Thank you. My fellow Members, I will once again draw attention to something that we have been trying to tell you all day today, but as if by the majority you fail to understand it. The Ukrainian Foreign Minister should have just expressed his disappointment about his visit to Bulgaria, so I hope you hear now. However, I am not convinced that this will happen, but we are obliged, once again today, to call on the National Assembly's leadership to include on the agenda the three draft decisions that we discussed yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Policy. The praises of the government that the Ukrainian foreign minister has come here to praise Bulgaria for the things the Bulgarian government does turned out to be a lie. Nobody ever said thank you for anything, not even the other way around.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u120	Mr. Mitov, you are making a statement on the substance, which is not part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u121	I justify, Mr. Chairman, my procedural proposal to try to tell my colleagues why we insist on this so much. Yesterday's draft decision proposed by the government in the Commission is practically a suitcase without handle, a useless object, unfit even to serve as a front, that the government has done something with regard to the conflict with Ukraine. So give, colleagues, and once again I call on the leadership of the National Assembly, put the item on the agenda with the three draft decisions so that we can discuss here in this House a final decision and wash the shame that we started making yesterday with the decision in the External Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u122	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Gutsanov, is this a point of reference? For procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since it has been called for a certain vote since the morning on several occasions, the issue is historic for inclusion on the agenda, consideration and vote. [[noise and lines]] This issue is extremely important and perhaps one of the most important votes and discussions to be held in the National Assembly. It is therefore necessary for each parliamentary group, each Member of the National Assembly to know in the most detailed way possible what was discussed yesterday at the Commission and only then to enter this issue into the National Assembly. I do not believe that this should be discussed in this way. Furthermore, I also do not think that any foreign minister can say what to do at the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Mr. Ivanov, are you still holding on to your procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is under the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week. As you know, fellow Members, point eight is a proposal by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, namely the Draft Decision for the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to establish all the facts and circumstances related to the government's $1 billion government-signed Memorandum with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. Please, Mr. Chairman, the time of the work of the National Assembly to be extended to the examination and voting under item No. 8 in order to clarify whether the Bulgarian energy was given to a shell or a concession for 1 billion dollars to a foreign company for which quite interesting media journalistic investigations have emerged that there is money laundering of Russian oligarchs involved in it. Therefore, my proposal is, Mr President, that we extend the work of the National Assembly to the consideration and vote on the point that I have read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? For a reverse opinion or another procedure, Mr. Bojankov? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u127	My procedure is whether or not you'll take it back... Mr. Ivanov made a procedure very strange. Because he says the Bulgarian energy given on concession. This is about some intention. [[noise and lines]] It's not about contracts. It's not about anything. But to remind Mr. Ivanov that they were going to give, but seriously, the Bulgarian energy of Ginka Varbakova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u128	Mr. Bojankov...!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u129	... Unclear to whom they were not just ready, they were in an advanced process because both the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly led...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u130	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u131	...legendary Ginka Varbakova. So you're giving energy to... [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u132	Mr. Bojankov! Colleagues, I'm asking you to keep a good voice. Any other procedures? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here was made a very concrete proposal, which is done almost every day for certain points. What has been done by colleagues and BSPs is to look at every point, including the last one, with an extension of time. Then, of course, this will be put to the vote. I cannot understand this pro-corruption pathos of Mr. Bojankov where it came from, because I know that he has been fighting corruption for years and suddenly today there is some kind of twist in it. Is this turn of events...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u134	By procedure, Mr. Bikov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u135	...is a result of certain arrangements and bargains that have been going on the towers for two weeks now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u136	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Bikov. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u137	And you've got these little things going around, and you've got some shit going on. [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u138	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Bikov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Colleagues, are there any other procedures? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal the National Assembly's work today to continue until the end of item eight of the agenda. Vote 169 MPs: 61, against 88, abstention 20. That's why the offer isn't accepted. For a statement Mrs. Atanasova from GERB-SDS. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u139	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! We are apparently in the last two hours of the second session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. A session that has passed under the sign of the success of your quadruple coalition. Happy, perhaps, that your coalition is stable and ruling beautifully. Not only did you not vote for important points on today's agenda, but you also voted for a 10-day Easter vacation. It's a shameful exercise. Given that many of the issues on the agenda of the Bulgarian society will obviously wait for you to rest. Should I remind you that there are still no measures to combat the crisis, to combat crises, to combat inflation, to combat prices. There aren't even any ideas in the ruling majority. You gentlemen, during this session you were only engaged in the construction and party possession of whole sectors and spheres of influence. I'm sure you'll do a brief flashback on what you've done, too, but let me make it easy for you. In the beginning, you unconstitutionally elected the Chair of the KEWRC and this was conditioned by one of your legislative changes, little in number in this plenary session. You've run away from Bulgargaz, you've devalued the Bulgarian energy companies, you've raised the price of the gas. You still have no idea what you're going to do with the price of electricity, not for business, not for lifestyles. And you just analyzed, analyzed, analyzed. Analyses about Bulgarian energy. So many analyses that you finally signed a 1 billion-dollar memorial with offshore. A memorandum that was called a memorable note, a letter of intent and any other definitions. A memorandum for which you intervened the American Embassy, you intervened the British Embassy. They called you liars, specifically your Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, and a Memorandum for which we from GERB-SDZ have been demanding for more than a month to establish a temporary committee and to make it clear whose interests and capital are behind the two corporations to which you give the Bulgarian energy. What else did you do?! You have shut down institutions, you have even seen footage of your favourite caretaker government, you have broken down statehood and Bulgarian institutions. Every day you made unconstitutional decisions. You have crossed out the Bulgarian Constitution, laws, regulations. What have you done?! You spent nine billion in nine days. Bulgaria during your wonderful management this week has reached a financial bottom. Every Monday, you drew debts externally, internally. International financial markets don't really reflect you anymore either. Whether you notice it or not, I don't know. What else did you do?! You arrested the opposition leader. Illegal arrest. An arrest that led to euphoria in the prime minister's cabinet chief on whose order the opposition leader was arrested. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u140	Mrs. Atanasova, no charges, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u141	I quote, Mr. Chairman, no offense personally. What else?! You made the youth GERB guilty of the price of fuel.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u142	For panic, not for the price.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u143	You would have arrested them for five years in prison by the TV tribunal. You found the anti-corruption search engine Google, but you didn't choose a BNB governor. You did not side with Ukraine because you have thick red lines inside the ruling majority, which the largest man in the ruling coalition does not allow to step on, honourable Members. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] You are not behind the interests of Bulgarian citizens this week, and this is obvious. However, you are already at a distance from GERB, you are no longer the first political force, although only days ago you became a party. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] What else did you do? You have enriched the Bulgarian political vocabulary with a number of neologisms, which made the Bulgarian society wonder what the Prime Minister understands and what he understands when he does not even speak Bulgarian well. For the past four months, more than 100 days, or just the last session of the work of this Assembly, which you are now closing triumphantly with elementary legislative decisions, we have understood what you are against, a ruling coalition. You were consistently against financial stability, against prosecution and Bulgarian institutions, against opposition, against parliamentaryism, against the Constitution. We just didn't know what you were up to, what your agenda was for, what your management program was for, and how long you're gonna mess with the Bulgarian society. To all of you in these bright days, I wish you to think, humble yourselves... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u144	God, God, you must humble yourselves!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u145	...and after you rest, come back here with the only right decision to resign this disastrous government for Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Happy holidays to all your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u146	Mr. Mitev, please come in for a procedure. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the manner in which you are led, Mr. Chairman. Please, when untruths are uttered from this tribune, in some way pay attention to this. And here, I can tell you a few untruths. We've heard a lot of untruths about this second parliamentary session. One of them is that we won't accept the budget, that we won't shut down the Special Court, that the government will fall, that we don't comply with the law... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] [[GERB-SDS calling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u148	Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u149	...that we've spent...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u150	Mr. Mitev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u151	And what happened? We've accepted the budget, we've closed the Special Court...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u152	Mr. Mitev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u153	...the coalition resisted... [[The President turns off the microphones. Knocking on the banks by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u154	Mr. Mitev, your procedure is with me, we understand what you mean. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Colleagues, I pray you, at least a little patience because Mr. Mitev started a statement a little while ago, in essence, he said: give me a chance to argue. It's the same...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u155	A declaration is not to be considered!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u156	That's what I'm trying to explain, Mr. Ivanov, let's hear what this procedure is all about. I give a few sentences and then took away the word of my colleague Mitev. Are there any other procedures, colleagues? I can't see. To make a statement on the item on the agenda, Hristo Gazhev. Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, Mr President, I will support you with the decision taken just now, because really when there is talk of nonsense from this tribune, the floor must be taken away, even from colleagues from your parliamentary group. I take the floor on the ratification that has been offered to us today for consideration. It is about radio communication equipment for the needs of the Bulgarian Army. After all, the National Assembly has found the time today to consider military matters and topics of military supplies, of course, the sinners, and not those we should be looking at today, but this will be on your conscience. Maybe you'll leave them for after the vacation and after May 9th it'll be very up-to-date. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Chairman, if someone replicates from this room, they can always take the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u158	Mr. Gadget, I know what they are to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u159	Yeah, I'm just paying attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u160	So are the coworkers. Please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u161	The bill proposed to us actually completes three modernization projects of the Bulgarian Army, launched during the government of GERB. In this way, it means nothing new that the government is proposing in the field of defence, but on the contrary, it is finishing what has already been started, which is nothing wrong, of course. It is about completing the modernisation of T-72, communication devices to increase mobility and protection of Special Operations Force personnel, the equipment of their mobile jeeps in the case that were purchased in 2020, and increasing mobility and protection of the personnel of the Special Operations Marine Tactical Group, which is a good thing that we should ultimately be compatible with our allies. Unfortunately, only this is not the agenda of society today, because this ratification is sitting on our attention for sure now about a month. And instead of talking about what has been raised many times by colleagues and the rulers, by the way, the issue of a solution for Ukraine, you have decided to hide. And by the way, here, I regret that Mr. Gurov is not in the Chamber, because he just said that he can be relied entirely on for the support of Ukraine by his parliamentary group. I hope he'll at least tighten up his committee chair. Last week, one of their presidents blocked the meeting's work because he couldn't sign a document, and today it's happening...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u162	Get to the point, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u163	...the same with another group chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u164	Under the bill, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u165	The bill itself. By the way, it is interesting to see inside the very way of payment it is rescheduled. Many people claimed that there was no possibility of rescheduled payment in such transactions............................................................................................................................................................ I hope the government uses it for the next procedures to come. So a myth that it is not possible to reschedule the payment. The government itself is currently proving it, as it has been reschedule within three years and is not a pre-payment which was claimed in the Commission Report and is not, in fact, true because the payment is being made... there was also a timetable of the payment payable in the contract itself. I also remember the statement of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev that he would never sign a document to buy armaments on paper. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we have been offered exactly such a document signed by the Minister of Finance! Because maybe he's already figured out that armaments don't keep him in storage, both technology and technical assistance, so to speak, which we're buying. No one keeps it in storage, it's manufactured under a contract already concluded. I hope that he has learned his lesson and thus no longer deceives himself and the Bulgarian society, because in this case it would appear that he has actually transgressed his own promises. As for the various mechanisms that are provided for in the treaty itself, here again are the same rules that were laid down in the deal on airplanes, which was recently commented in the National Assembly, the same conditions. That is, the government is now saying that these conditions are completely adequate and identical to those of 2019. That is, everything that was said before is very stupid. I would like to note that the decision of the Council of Ministers has been taken by consensus. Now, let me remind you of what "consensus" means, because this word is a little confused by the MPs and in general by the society how it is used. Konsensus means, even if you do not agree with a decision, not to express your disagreement and the decision to go unanimously is a consensus. Unity is now when everyone votes for. So obviously all the coalition partners in this government were about the agreement in question and the conditions in it are something that cannot be denied. The Stenograms of the Council of Ministers speak. I hope, however, that this House will support this decision. I must now point out that it was started by a communication error which became characteristic of this Council of Ministers. When it was initially announced that the decision itself was worth 77 million, it was actually 36 million; that it was about starting a new modernization, it was actually about completing the already started. It wasn't Swedish, it was a Soviet movie, as the old joke said. I hope that at least my colleagues from the Council of Ministers will start reading their documents so that such awkward situations do not come to light when Minister Yanev was still a minister and the Ministry of Defence had to issue a press release on purpose to disprove the press release of the Council of Ministers. This was specifically on this ratification, so I am talking about it. At least the government doesn't create false news itself would be a good start. Something we haven't seen in the last four months. After all, the decision itself will lead to the creation of abilities of the Bulgarian Army, so we will support it. I also hope that the rulers who have imported it will support it without further demagogy. After all, note that this shows a deepening of the cooperation between Bulgaria and the United States, which is inherited by the government of GERB. Now we have to see if you can develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u166	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines, colleagues? Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gazhev, a very short line. Of course, we need this country's weapons, rather those communications that must be placed in the various types of armed forces, but the price difference is very great. We're talking about just over 17 million when we talk about this treaty, and 1 billion 256 million when we talk about planes. Therefore, I ask that we be correct when such data is exported from the National Assembly stands. Because the suggestion you wanted to make is quite strange against the background, I repeat, to 17 million and 1 billion 256 million for the planes that are still missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u168	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Is there a second line, colleagues? Hole, Mr. Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gutsanov, I am sometimes amused by your attempts to create unnecessary or rather balloon information, as yes, the amounts are different from the two contracts, but the terms are the same! I said: the terms are the same, absolutely identical are the terms of the 2019 deal that you comment on and the deal that is now, both proposed for ratification. If you open the conditions, they are standard and they are the same now and 2019. The only difference in terms is payment! [[Reply by MP Borislav Gutsanov.]] The planes are gone, yes, because they are yet to be produced, and this is yet to be produced................................................................................................. As well as when you order a plane, regardless of which supplier it will be American, French, Swedish, Russian or Brazilian, or whoever you want, will also be producing them. Because, again, there's no firm, no country in the world that'll keep a gun in storage and wait for someone to buy it. This isn't your supermarket in the neighborhood or the neighborhood store. Therefore, there is no way to accept your attempt to misinformation, as different amounts are, yes, but the conditions are the same. The only thing different is the weather one is 2019, the other is 2022. Obviously the government has agreed to the same conditions that, by the way, you have criticised the one that I mean your parliamentary group. Now your parliamentary group, rather your government has approved identical terms! So at least be ashamed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u170	Any other speeches? Alexander Alexandrov. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be very brief. I would like to say a few things about ratification why it is necessary. Because above all, we are talking about a high-tech production, a communication system so necessary for our armed forces and for increasing capabilities, and not a few such radio stations, let me just say, items. The main thing in all of this is the so-called C4I communication system, an integrated military communication system, which includes the interactions of formations and the command of the terrain, of the area, which is particularly important and leads to a detailed knowledge of the action. So, just one such element, you know that not only land, sea and air as a field of action for the fleet, ground troops and air force, but in recent years cyberspace and space have become a field for fighting. This system Command Control Communications Computers Intelligence means in our country that all tanks, the number we have of weapons in the Bulgarian Army, the command and command machines of the joint command of the forces and those new ones, which are almost finished in Samokov machines of the special forces, will be equipped with these radio stations. And all of this is an element of the command and control system. I would just like to point out that the military action in Ukraine, the war, has shown the extreme need for precisely this online learning picture on the battlefield, and if there are different comments regarding one and the other forces in Ukraine, we must bear that in mind. Again, to point out that these communication tools are extremely important. Just to point out that about six months ago the Bulgarian Army and the armed forces were equipped with six mobile communication and information systems on digital basis, with an online transmission to the state's stationary communication system at all points of reference. What does that mean? It means that if we ratify and subsequently acquire these systems, from the individual unit on the battlefield all this information can be transmitted under the Command and Management System to those who manage the troops, including by using the support system of the stationary communication system. I think everyone is convinced of the need and this ratification should be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u172	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ibryamov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u173	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the speeches before me, colleagues affected, for understandable reasons perhaps, the agenda of the Bulgarian society. Of course, the agenda is quite different from this agenda, which we are considering in the National Assembly, but this is understandable, we are Bulgarian politicians and we are dealing with legislation. And people's agenda depends entirely on inflation, poverty, low purchasing power, but this is a topic of another conversation that will soon be presented to you, honourable Members. On the point of ratification of a letter of offer and acceptance of radio communication equipment for the Bulgarian Army, February, the Council of Ministers, colleagues, decides and authorises the Minister of Defence to sign an international contract with the US Government for the acquisition of this radio communication equipment, or so-called equipment for land troops, the joint command of special operations and naval forces. The delivery of this equipment is related to the implementation of three projects I think a colleague mentioned it, as a whole, for the modernization of the Bulgarian Army, related to the modernization of T-72 tanks, for the needs of tank formations, increased mobility and protection of personnel from the forces of special operations, and, of course, increasing mobility and protection of the personnel of the marine tactical group for special operations. And of course, after the ratification of this treaty by the National Assembly, its implementation will enter into force and a contract will be concluded with the US side respectively for the production and delivery of this equipment with the respective US company. It is worth noting that these funds, which are earmarked for this equipment, which will be integrated in the Bulgarian Army anyway, do not generally have any financial consequences for the contracts already in force to modernise the land, naval or air force. But what is important, ladies and gentlemen of the House? At the heart of the understanding of an optimal crisis resolution, because Bulgaria is in crisis, in today's modernity is the achievement of information efficiency, with modern communications being able to carry out their activities only and only in the presence of effective communication channels, and equipment enables this to happen. The lack of such a communication channel means that there is, in fact, a lack of both an environment and conditions for the implementation of a type of communication regardless of what it is. In essence, this communication infrastructure represents and is practically materialising a communication strategy and tactics. In this sense, these communication channels, both in terms of modernity and modernity, are, of course, an element of communication policy, which is very important especially for the Bulgarian Army. Their primary purpose is to ensure and materialise the communication relations and intentions of the entities operating them. This is to clarify what this communication equipment and equipment is needed for. Something very important, among other things, these channels also build trust between the subjects. In today's conditions in which we live, in crisis situations, all kinds of things, it is important that these entities really trust each other as an element of the structure of these communication channels. And trust should not only be considered in principle, but it is based on concrete and material communication foundations. Before I graduated, colleagues, Bulgaria had, a thick emphasis, there was a very good, built communication environment, a satellite system in the past, a communication system that was modern for its time, of course, but it was liquidated. And on this basis, as I recall, was built "Mobiltel". The main criterion, perhaps the most important criterion for communication, as I mentioned, in the modern society " XXI century" in which we live, is reliable, secure, modern for the 21st century, characteristic classified communication. And since it is about the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Army, it must be reliable and secure classified communication equipment, characteristic of NATO anyway. In this regard, the Parliamentary Group of "Rights and Freedoms Movement" will support this ratification, and I hope, as it was in the Defence Committee, that we will have synergies in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? We're closing the discussion. Honourable Members, I am putting to the vote a bill for ratification of a letter of offer and acceptance of BU-B-UCH radio communication equipment. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 31 March 2022 They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zafirov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since there are no visible additions, remarks, proposals and the consensus in the Chamber is visible and the vote shows, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I also propose that we adopt the bill which has just been adopted in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u176	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Please vote, colleagues, Mr. Zafirov's proposal. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose a second vote: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Letter of Offer and acceptance of BU-B-UCH Radio Communication Equipment Article 1. Ratification letter for offer and acceptance BU-B-UCH radio communication equipment. Signed on 8 December 2021 in the European Command of the United States in Europe and 28 February 2022 in Sofia, the Republic of Bulgaria. Article 2. The contract referred to in art. 2 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The request was adopted by the 40th National Assembly on 13 April 2022 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u178	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the second vote the presented bill by Mr. Zafirov for ratification of the Letter of Offer and acceptance of BU-B-UCH radio communication equipment. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. We move on to the next item fourth on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ENERGY OF RENEWABLE SOURCES. Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs were importing on 11 March 2022. A report came in from the Energy Commission. Mr. Ribarsky, are you going to present the Report? Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted on 11 March 2022 by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs At its regular meeting held on 16 March 2022, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted on 11 March 2022 by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy Mr. Plamen Danailov. On behalf of the importers, the Bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Vladimir Tabutov. The bill provides for the creation of an opportunity to introduce a notification regime for cases where the construction of energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources for own consumption is envisaged. The aim is to speed up the process of building such sites that would ease economic consumers in the process of diversifying their energy supply. Changes in art. Art. 24, Art. 26 of the Renewable Energy Act ensures that producers of electricity from renewable sources for their own consumption assume the responsibility that the energy produced is not returned to the electricity distribution network, which saves the need to carry out the procedure for examining the conditions of accession. The Transitional and Final Provisions make changes to the Law on Structure in the Area, which provide for the possibility of optimizing the time limits for planning and investment design in the construction, with a focus on designing and building renewable energy sources for own consumption. Changes aim at saving administrative procedures for investment intentions for renewable energy plants for own consumption. A procedure shall be established for the electronic coordination of the draft detailed planning plans and investment projects with the competent administrations. Electronic coordination is also provided for investment projects. The amendment will significantly shorten the time limits for the coordination of projects in the course of investment planning and allow them to be built faster. An amendment to art. 124b, para. 1 of the LU for the preparation by the municipalities of a comprehensive list of administrations with which the detailed planning plan will be agreed. The bill removes existing contradictions in spatial planning procedures for the sake of clarity and uniformity of legislation, namely the designation of the Municipal Council as a competent authority to allow and approve an amendment to a common spatial plan. It allows for an approval procedure for a new detailed planning plan to be made conditional on the entry into force of an amendment to a common design plan if there is a contradiction between them. National Representative Vladimir Tabutov declared a private interest on the grounds of art. 144 of the U.S.P.S. During the discussion the MPs Iskra Mihailova, Fatme Ramadan, Vladislav Panev and Tihomir Tenev expressed their basic support for the proposed changes. Questions were asked by the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova, Alexander Nenkov and Rositsa Kirova. Opinions in support of the bill expressed also the MPs Vassil Stefanov, Ivan Manev, Venko Sabrutev and Emil Georgiev. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy with 9 votes for the European Parliament, without votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted on 11 March 2022 by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u180	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. There is also a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mrs. Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 5 April 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2022. Mr. Stefan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Radoslav Ribarski. He stressed that the submitted bill provides for the introduction of a notification regime in cases where the construction of energy sites for the production of electricity from renewable sources for own consumption is envisaged. In this way, it will be possible to accelerate the process of building such objects. The changes provide for producers of electricity from renewable sources for their own consumption to assume the responsibility not to return the energy produced to the electricity distribution network, which saves the need to carry out the accession study procedure. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft are proposed amendments to the Law on Structure in the Area, which provide for the possibility to optimize the time limits for planning and investment design in construction related to the design and construction of renewable energy sources for own consumption. The changes propose a procedure for electronic coordination of the projects of detailed planning plans and investment projects with the competent administrations. This will shorten the time limits for coordination of projects and allow them to be built more quickly. The municipalities are intended to draw up a comprehensive list of administrations that will coordinate the detailed planning plan. The proposed changes allow for the adoption of a procedure for the approval of a new detailed design plan, subject to the entry into force of an amendment to a common design plan, if there is a contradiction between them. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, comments and proposals were made on the various provisions, expressing disagreement with some of the proposed amendments to the Law on Construction on the territory. The opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works was presented by Mr. Stefan Asparuhov. He noted that the opinion of the Ministry mentioned some remarks and proposals on the draft and between the two votes it was necessary to take account of the opinions submitted by the various institutions and to clarify the proposed provisions. MPs Mladen Shishkov and Nikolay Nankov announced that they would not support the bill. According to Mr. Shishkov, unacceptable changes are being made to the regime for general planning, and if the comments from the various opinions of the ministries and other organizations are accepted, then there will be nothing left of the bill. Mr. Nankov said that the bill did not distinguish the hypotheses for domestic consumers and for production needs. According to him, it is clear from the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works that it does not support the changes proposed in the Law on Construction in the territory and the proposal is also contrary to the Directive. The President of the Commission, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, said that despite the comments in the various opinions, the points at issue could be cleared between the two votes and the objective of the proposed draft. Members of parliament Elena Guncheva, Tsvetan Enchev and Georgi Georgiev said they would support the bill, but between the two readings it is necessary to make the relevant changes by complying with the comments and proposals made in the various opinions. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes in favour, 1 vote in favour and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Opinions by importer Mr. Stefanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, at first reading the Law should be considered in its entirety. I will therefore try to outline the reasons for the creation of the Bill, on the one hand. On the other hand, the benefits that would lead to its possible acceptance. First of all, the Bill aims to ease the administrative burden of building small plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources for own production to a certain capacity. These are the general guidelines of Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion and use of energy from renewable sources. The whole policy of the European Union is in the direction of stimulating green energy production, phased closure of electricity plants using fossil fuels for electricity production. It must be pointed out here that the plan for recovery and sustainability, which our government has worked out, does not contain commitments for the closure of coal productions. This actually protects not only the jobs of all those working there, it also protects our entire energy system, which was actually part of the coalition's election promises, which was fulfilled. In this sense, the current bill aims to encourage consumers of electricity to invest in green energy for their own consumption by facilitating procedures for the construction of small stations on roof and facade structures of buildings. This would lead to greater energy independence and easing electricity prices for users. The bill contains some texts that need to be refined, such as the total amount of installed power that is intended to pass through the light regime and whether to be built in urbanised territories. Texts should be added that enhance the restriction of the possibility for producers to return electricity to the network. This is why the laws in Bulgaria are adopted in two readings. This is also the point of parliamentaryism in the end, because the voice of the ruling majority, of the opposition, and of all those involved in the public discussion, the bills should be heard and, accordingly, the clearest and most functional text for a law can be achieved. As far as I understand in the committees, some opposition parties would also support this bill. I am going beyond the opinion of the importer here, but to say that, in fact, given the importance of public relations, if the bill is adopted at first reading, I will personally make a procedural proposal to extend the period between the readings from seven to 14 days so that all these proposals can be consolidated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u184	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. I'm opening a discussion on the subject. Mladen Shishkov was actually first recorded for speech, then Iskra Mihailova. Mr. Shishkov. Or, colleagues from GERB, which you decide if you have enrolled at the same time. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov. I'm recording you, too, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, the current bill is one of the few that have been able to pass through the censure of coalition bargaining - a short but content-filled bill that interferes roughly with good practices imposed by the Bulgarian legislation. In short, wild populism. The views of the ministries, companies and organizations concerned also speak about the powerlessness of this bill. They themselves, in the right text, argue that this bill has no legal value. During the Commission's debates, it has been mentioned several times that the contested texts will be cleared between the first and second votes by complying with the opinions of the departments concerned. Let's see what exactly needs to be cleaned out, though. The bill consists of four paragraphs. The Ministry of Finance strongly objects to the texts in § 4, although the ideology of this bill is the Minister of Finance himself. After the cleansing of § 4, there are three paragraphs left. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works objects to the amendments in a piece, given the forthcoming transposition of the new European directives. They categorically reject the proposal under § 1. So far, out of four paragraphs, two are cleared and two are left. The Regional Ministry proposes to partially abolish § 3, which is actually the basis of the entire bill. So there was one out of four paragraphs. The Ministry of Energy also objects to § 2, by the way, to § 3. So, by clearing all the contradictions in the Bill, the entire bill is cleared. With regard to the technical part there is a well-grounded opinion of the ERPs, you can read it all. Even green NGOs have serious remarks on the bill. These are also presented by the Chamber of Engineers in investment design. Personally, for me, however, the fact that none of the institutions have reflected a substantial rude intervention in the Law on Construction in the territory is perplexing. Therefore, that a photovoltaic park with an area of 50 decares, together with the adjacent installations and trafosts, is aligned to the sixth category of the lowest, is explained in the opinions, but no one explained that two sentences derogate whole sections in ZUT. The whole process of general planning, colleagues, is depreciated by a modest addition to the Bill. We're witnessing severe interference with the legislation. We've let an elephant walk around in a glass shop. But let's put all this aside, let's forget for a moment all the legislative nonsense proposed in these four paragraphs and get back to the meaning of the bill. The idea is to ease the regime for the construction of photovoltaics for energy consumption for own needs........................ a noble idea, but the road to hell is full of good intentions, colleagues. Why? Firstly, such relief already exists in current legislation. And at the moment, plants up to one megawatt power are much above the European directives, being built on a light regime, but a power of five megawatts, colleagues, is equal to the power consumed by a medium-sized municipality. What kind of enterprise consumes that kind of power? It is obvious that it aims to ease several large enterprises in the country, only that they are not written in the Bill by name, because for everyone else there is an active relief regime. Second and foremost, gentlemen in charge, business doesn't need any time limits. Those who have the opportunity have already built their own plant, which has two or three months' delay, will not stop it from building one. Dear rulers, the problem is not the time frame, the problem is the means. Businesses need funds for the construction of such plants, not reduced deadlines, at this time reduced at the cost of multiple risks. You have to think about this because five megawatts of power plant costs about 2 million. lv. Who can afford them and how long will the investment be repaid? How will you financially help businesses and people build such plants? These are the questions to which you owe answers, not to smear the eyes of society with impossible and pointless shortening of deadlines. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u186	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Vladimir Tabutov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Shishkov, with all due respect to you, I think you do not really understand what is going on in the sector..................................... and I will tell you what the business needs. Before I make a specific comment, however, I would like to report to you under art. 144 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and to declare private interest, because my professional experience is quite closely related to this matter. First, you are right that there is actually a eased regime to a megawatt, and we aim to ease this eased regime, because in reality it is not relieved. He is not relieved because an opinion on accession is required. In that case, we are in the hypothesis in which, when a production company wants to build such a plant for its own use, they are hostages to the electricity distribution companies and to the bureaucracy which is built up by all the intertwining laws. So it turns out that instead of us untie the hands of companies that want to build this type of power plant by their own means, they have to wait more than half a year until this thing happens. The aim is not to ease the regime for large plants, but only for own use, in urbanised territories, if you have read the proposal specifically. I do not agree with your claim that business needs funds for this thing at all, because these are investments that are being killed in less than five years in their own consumption. Is that what we're gonna co-finance? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since I'm running out of time, I'll try to get a line or a statement again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Second line from Ivan Manev. Here you are, Mr. Manev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Shishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u190	Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u191	Shishkov, I apologize. What I mean to say, you mentioned five megawatts, five megawatts several times, as if every producer would want to make five megawatts. In fact, it is clearly described in the Law that it is up to five megawatts, and since this is for its own use, they are not entitled to devote this energy to the network. Here already comes the other moment of the interest of a company to build a network that is much more than the needs it will use, which means yes, few businesses are using five megawatts and would build such a park that will give them five megawatts, and these enterprises can certainly afford this investment. The question is here to give other companies the opportunity to build up to five megawatts, depending on what they will consume. Again I say: my enterprise, figuratively speaking, if it consumes a megawatt, is against any logic to build a park that will be five megawatts, as the remaining four megawatts have no one to give them to, as this is the condition of the amendment and the supplement we want to make. That's what I meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u192	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. For the coat, Mr. Shishkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the replicators, the lines were actually on the ground. Mr. Tabutov, yes, I admit I'm not an energy engineer, I'm a simple construction engineer designer, yet I've allowed myself to open the RES Act that we're currently looking at. What I have seen is that at the moment in the RES Act there is a eased regime up to 30 kilos for own needs, up to 200 kilos for production needs, colleagues, without the necessary documents required under art. 24, if I'm not mistaken, or actually Art. 23 of the Law. I know so much about energy, but on the other hand, I have a modest knowledge of the Law on the Construction of the Area. I have already said that with a few words you derogate a whole section on the adoption of common planning, which makes their existence at present meaningless with those texts that you have proposed. Regarding Mr. Manev's line. Yes, I say again, noble are intentions, but how do we ensure that the power we have generated in excess of what we need will not be returned to the ERP, for example? Affidavits, colleagues, affidavits! This is not serious. It's really not serious, and I don't see how even between first and second readings you could make any changes so that this law really works. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Iskra Mihailova for speech. Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As we have told the Commission, we will support this bill at first reading with huge conventions. We support it because, in the current situation, because we are commenting at the moment and the philosophy of what we need to do, and in the current situation, we are in a difficult economic situation in Bulgaria, and businesses and households are facing high electricity bills, and anyway, a procedure that currently exists with regard to this alternative to electricity provision is 12 to 18 months, and the construction of such a plant itself is one month, this imbalance in any way needs to be regulated. We at ARCHIVE have had enough meetings with the average and small businesses, especially which face these enormous difficulties. In this regard, there is no way we do not want this change to happen, but from now on, the problems in the draft, which we discussed with the Commission, with which the importers themselves have agreed to a great deal, are many, but we have had a commitment from the President of the Commission, Mr. Ribarski, who said that he will form a working group and between first and second reading all interested parties who have something to bring in will have the opportunity to give opinions and we will sit down together and work so that things can happen. Here I have to point out that this gesture of goodwill that we do is to prove, as we have always said, that when there is something in favor of the Bulgarian society, we are inclined, ready to support it. We hope that in the next point, which is the Law on VAT rates reduction, you will do the same because every problem when we have the desire to be solved, it can be done this way. Our obstructions regarding this bill are in terms of power. Five megawatts is a huge power, as has been mentioned, it is more than 2000 households to gain an idea of colleagues who can't do that is a really great power. Unites are the companies in Bulgaria that consume this power, and the scale itself creates difficulties regarding how to include this power in the network and what risks creates a possible return to it, despite the notification regime with a declaration, the declarative mode for returning to the transmission network, which in no way can guarantee that this will happen in such a way. The other one, which was commented, was rather just mentioned, but we should note, is the area that would occupy such a park and because we are here commenting on the construction not only on facades, but also on terrains that are unbuilt. I and the committee called, and now I will again call on the importers to listen very carefully to GERB's group regarding the Law on Construction on the territory. Listen very carefully to this group, which for years sold out in every way the land in almost every municipality in which they had feudal domains through the mayors, who outrageously changed statuses, sold, and they are perfectly familiar with how and how this happens. That risk is open right now. They still have 130 municipalities. Don't forget that thing. Do we allow the feudal domains with a mayor and a municipal council with a table majority because you know that you excuse, but parts of your ruling coalition are from the old parties that perfectly understand each other, can pass any decision in a way that we can lose and the few remaining agricultural land that has not been changed and has not been sold out, especially in smaller settlements, where the votes are 13, 16 and reach this decision very quickly. There is another pass, which I think we commented on to a committee, but I would still like to point it out so that the working group can also include this is that the Law does not regulate storage batteries. Maybe this is something that we should also pay attention to, because when someone produces that kind of energy, they can't sell it, they have to somehow deal with it. Mr. Ribarsky, I'm addressing you. I believe that the commitment for the working group will not become like the Commission for the Constitution, such as the Constitutional Group of.. Democratic Bulgaria.... and absolutely nothing will happen to it. There together we will think about how to ease the work of the middle and small businesses, but we will bring additions, amendments and amendments to the bill between first and second readings, perhaps after the group, so that we can reconcile each other. I'm still paying attention to what we're doing. We believe that this is the way in which the institution of the National Assembly should work for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens. We expect the same from you in the next point in terms of reducing the VAT rates for food from the small consumer basket, energy and medicines. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Vladimir Tabutov for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House. Dear Mrs. Mihailov, I will take account of the three points that you commented on. You partly answered with your question about batteries why up to 5 megawatts. The idea here is to think more profoundly. Given that most of the times the production plants and plants have one base power, to take an elementary example of 1 megawatt, which the base power would power not by 1 megawatt, respectively, a photovoltaic power plant, but by significantly greater power. And given that the batteries that we could actually use require additional building power, so we have given each investor the opportunity to assess what built-up capacity to undertake as investments. So if you constantly consume 1 megawatt 24 hours a day, you need 24 megawatt hours. If you build 1 megawatt only, you could only generate 8 or 10 megawatt hours in the light of the day, with the deficit of the remaining 14 megawatt hours you should purchase from the electricity distribution company or your supplier. However, if you install 3 megawatts plus batteries or power storage facilities, you will be energy independent. That is why our goal is to dissolve the scissors and each investor to decide what power from a photovoltaic power plant to install, to combine it in the future with a storage facility and the energy independence of this enterprise to be maximum. That's what I meant. This is about batteries and power. And as for the construction of another type of agricultural territory, the changes that we have described are only for regulated parcels, not for unregulated, that is, those that are already in regulation and adjacent, and there is construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u198	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there a second line? Andrej Gurov, come in. We must complete the procedure, Mr. Ghurov. There are no other lines. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Mihaylova? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u199	Thank you. Colleagues are obviously very new in politics to get that line from you. When we talk about changing the status of land, there is a procedure that happens. Even when the Law does not say that this land is agricultural, urbanized, PUP, this can be changed by a decision of the Municipal Council. This is what I was trying to explain to you a moment ago that there should be more guarantees in this bill so that it does not happen exactly with the granting of the power that this bill allows the municipal councils, the feudal capitals that exist in a large part of the municipalities in Bulgaria, to change common planning plans, to change land status and to do something that will destroy and so little the rest of our land. Not to mention the risk to ecology we're talking about. The other thing about this power and what I missed just now is that we are saying this great power of 5 megawatts, with exactly one subsequent amendment of the Law, we can start wanting to put it back on the grid. So there's a lot more to comment on. We'll do it. It is good that this law of change is being opened. There is a need for it, but especially given that a part of your coalition partners several governments have commented in a row how in the Transitional and Final Regulations whole laws are changing, at the moment this bill is doing so with the Law on Structure in the Area and creating huge, spectacular risks. And these risks we have to eliminate because, again, I'm telling you, this is being watched. You can ask any city councillor or mayor from the municipalities from which you come, or just bother to watch things happen and how decisions are made there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Mr. Georgiev is speaking, isn't he? Affidavit. Here you go. And then Mr. Georgiev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian citizens! We've heard nothing is done. We've heard again about the public agenda. We have also heard talk about morality, and not just any one, but GERB. Let us tell the citizens what an agenda we faced when we entered the government. We'll tell you about morals as well. We're only going to tell you about a small portion of the inheritance we found and what we did. We found a legacy of holes. We found Mr. Borisov's 3,000 holes. Those holes he counted himself, his holes. Three thousand holes in a hundred days between two cities. This is the legacy of Borisov and GERB. The pride of Borisov, his priority of roads. It is clear how much he has dealt with his priority if he counted, although with forgetting in his words, 3,000 holes from Dobrich to Sofia. Road money, billions are spent, and in what state are the roads?! Any guide on the road, any one of us can judge. Yes, we've made a decision to release the money because we can't leave the roads in this state. We can't afford no support, but we'll look into it, we'll do the checks, we'll insist on political but also criminal responsibility. For the first time in years, we put a real budget in API. We have prepared an ambitious programme to rehabilitate the Republican road network and provide funding. Road safety is our priority. We cannot afford to lose Bulgarian citizens every day. The holes in the energy sector were left with a huge debt. The contracts for electricity, which take place in the segment "day ahead" because of the clumsy liberalisation of the market of GERB, put business on its knees. Businesses had to buy at the highest possible prices. Before that, their longtime contracts were broken by those who spoke of morality. There have been urgent changes in KEWRC, in Bulgargaz. We had to resort to a moratorium in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and because of the lack of investment and reserves in the system. More than 2 billion were given in aid for business to deal with the energy crisis for the first two months of the year. And it is clear to everyone that there is no European state in which citizens' electricity bills did not jump dramatically, except Bulgaria. [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The diversification of another hole, bequeathed by GERB, by so-called moralists. We rebooted the work on the completely frozen project on the interconnector between Bulgaria and Greece so that at last, after more than a decade of talk and talk about diversification, it could happen for real. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u202	Colleagues, no place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u203	The hole in health care. There were no ambulances, no money for the medics. Hospitals and specialists were in front of a collapse in the face of a pandemic. We have increased the money for health care, we are preparing an increase in funds for doctors and medical workers. Despite the new wool, we have managed to keep the business working and, at the same time, prevent blocking the healthcare system and closing the country. The hole in the pocket of the Bulgarians. GERB left us with the lowest incomes, the lowest pensions, the poorest country in the European Union. Of course, the most holes are in the justice system, where the chief prosecutor Ivan Geshev is still entrenched. We were able to fill some of these holes. We've shut down the Pretorians to the Attorney General, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office. After the holidays we submit the Law on KKCONPI and other key legislation in the area of the justice system. Yes, the inheritance is heavy, but it does not frighten us, we are not afraid of political hypocrisy, of populism, of opposition lies. Bulgarian voters have given us a vote of confidence, we have accepted this responsibility and every week we show government and responsible thinking. The Bulgarian people are wise and understands the crises in which Bulgaria is currently in crisis, which we will fight so that every Bulgarian citizen can live better. Sometimes responsible decisions are not compatible with the political PR, our style is transparent, facing people. We will continue to work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. We wish everyone a happy holiday!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Is it for procedure? Zhecho Stankov or Temenuzhka Petkova? Temenuzhka Petkova, okay. There should be no discussion on declarations in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! My procedure is the way it is, and it's for you. I beg you, dear President, when lies and untruths are told by politicians who obviously live in some parallel country to take away their word, otherwise people get the impression that we live in different worlds. There are many serious exercises, including this bill, being carried out on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u206	This is where it's getting to the point, Mrs. Petkova. Don't do that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u207	I just want to tell you that in less than four months, you drained the energy...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u208	No, Mrs. Petkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u209	Look who you made a memo with, see who you gave the energy to an offshore company! [[Troping at banks from.. We continue the Change.............................................]] Shame on you! This is an outrage you're doing! Don't replicate from place. Look at you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u210	Colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u211	Look who you signed contracts with and to whom you gave the Bulgarian energy!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u212	Mrs. Petkova, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u213	The interconnector with Greece we gave it to you as a ready-made project, there were several tens of kilometers left and you failed with a bang. In BEH's accounts there were 1.5 billion, 254 million profits on BEH, and you're going to tell me that BEH was in debt?! It's outrageous! [[Applause and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u214	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Petkova. Don't do that. Colleagues, I did not take Mrs. Petkova's word, but I call again: no matter who agrees and who disagrees with the declarations, it is normal that one side should ultimately be, the other side should not be, and this moment always happens, but let us not get into discussion on the subject. The declaration is an opportunity for a parliamentary group to express its opinion on a point that is not on the agenda and therefore to proceed on the agenda. Mr. Stankov, are you going to disprove me right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u215	I want the floor. Ask your colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u216	Okay, I'm recording you. Sorry, Mr. Stankov. Mr. Stankov, you're signed up, I saw you, but there's got to be some rotation of the groups. Mladen Shishkov and Iskra Mihaylova have spoken so far. Emil Georgiev is from a group that does not speak, Mr. Anastasov I have recorded it too. Vassil Stefanov was a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One procedure. On the basis of art. 42, para. 1 I propose that the working hours of today's plenary session be extended until adoption of paragraph 1. 4 on the agenda, namely the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u218	Thank you. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u219	Dear Mr President, since a little earlier today from the parliamentary group we had made such a proposal to extend the working hours, only to this point. 8. The House rejected this proposal, and now I see that you already want to work after 2:00, which is commendable after all, and therefore I am making a reverse proposal to extend it to this point. 8 with the end of the debate and the vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u220	Okay. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! One suggestion is to accept t. 4, the other is. 8, and I'm offering you an average of up to a point. 6 including. It's in the circle of the joke. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, a very brief Bill we have proposed to amend the Public Procurement Act, with which we remove the In House and the Framework Agreement from the Public Procurement Act. It is important because you have made three election campaigns on the back of the Inhouse and the Framework Agreement and the DPS will help you finally remove these mechanisms from the Public Procurement Act. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u222	Thank you, Mr. Hamid, your offer is up to t. 6. It remains only from the parliamentary group of the party to propose the item. 5 or t. Seven... I take it there are no more offers. If it's not about the program, let's put it to the vote first. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u223	Let me make a procedural proposal, then, Mr. Chairman, as we shall. Last year, colleagues, on the Great Thursday, on the eve of Good Friday, the majority fell into a nervous state and became aware that they accepted the Election Code, with which we all had problems. I'm warning you not to... [[Noise and lines.]] Oh, you had, and you're gonna have even bigger ones. So, the ox is rieing, on his back falling. Be careful what you wish for! Don't dig someone else's grave because you fall into it yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u224	Mr. Cholakov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u225	I suggest that you terminate the meeting at 2:00, Mr. Chairman, as it should be. Moreover, you know, when I was listening, especially Mrs. Mihailova and Mr. Shishkov, I realized, colleagues, that there are imperfections in the Law, which colleagues importers may not know because of the peculiarities of the local authorities and local self-government have not seen. The rest will give an opportunity on the grounds of art. 81 before the end of the first reading they will withdraw the bill, revise it in the meantime and re-submit it with the necessary adjustments so that we can participate constructively. Think about what I'm saying. If we stop the discussion now, you have the opportunity to review the Bill and on the same day to download it, and to submit it edited. This will be better for the discussion, believe me! I propose that the meeting be suspended at 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u226	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. There are no more proposals, so let's move on to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote Hristo Gazhev's proposal to do so. Eight of them. Vote 173 MPs: 61, against 100, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We move on to Hamid Hamid's proposal until the end of the item. 6 to extend the sitting. Vote 174 MPs: 59 against 104, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the latest proposal from Vasil Stefanov. Mr. Cholakov's proposal is to close at 2:00 p.m., but if Vasil Stefanov's proposal is not accepted, we will close directly at 2:00 p.m. We are voting on Vasil Stefanov's proposal to extend the meeting until the end of the item. 4. Vote 171 MPs: 85, against 82, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. Vote 175 MPs: 99, against 75, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Emil Georgiev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, your task is hard on today's Great Thursday, apparently some of us have not yet painted the eggs and are very nervous, and otherwise I have to make a major transition between the roads, the road problems and the energy problems. I am speaking as a member of the Energy Commission, and I have participated in all the meetings where we have also looked very deeply at this draft Law. Honourable Members, it is a fact that, in relation to the policy in force in the green economy, more and more is being placed on the production of electricity from renewable sources and this is not a coincidence. There's never been any interest, all the more so that the technique is perfected and the logic is there. The panels are cheaper, a park can be built in three or four months, and investments can be made in no more than three or four years. Therefore, the interest in photovoltaics is increasing and I will serve a few examples. 1200 applications have been submitted for joining CEZ in 2020 in particular. In 2001, 3000 were submitted and 1200 applications were submitted for the first quarter of this year only. A total of the requested photovoltaic parks can produce more than 16 thousand megawatts at total installed power at the moment somewhere around 11 thousand and at power consumption about 7,000 megawatts. In order to save attention deserves investment in photovoltaic parks for its own needs. I completely agree with Mr. Shishkov, I don't know, I don't see him in the room. Yes, I saw you, yes, in this project there are indeed quite controversial moments, but we agreed that between first and second reading they will be removed. For me as a person who claims to know the authorities of local self-government, the problem is not so much changing the status of the land and all the other accompanying activities, the problem is not in the five megawatts, the problem is the declarative nature of the connection of excess electricity to the distribution grid. And if you don't put in some very strict regime and control, it can lead to very serious breakdowns in the grid, and not only that, it can also lead to human victims of people who are involved in the service of the network. However, the step has been taken and is worth it, and I call on you at first reading to adopt this draft law. Between first and second reading, the necessary changes to ensure the introduction of a permanent control and sanctions mechanism are made. The technique is sufficiently developed and there is no way to enable one who wishes to declare declaratively that it will not return excess energy, we have enough technical means and there will be no way. This is where it belongs, after we adopt the Law, to pay attention to something that the National Assembly has somehow missed for years, namely how with legislative changes to make changes to the Penal Code, because at the moment there are colossal thefts of electricity in Bulgaria. And this theft, dear friends, is not one of the poor Gypsies, as we normally accuse them of, and the theft is from business. And I can give you at least 10.15 examples of insolent business theft. After all, in this hall there are very serious lawyers, you know that in 2004 there was a change in the Penal Code, a new composition of art. 216a, and yet the thefts at this stage don't stop. Calling on us to really vote on the draft law, my fellow Members, in any case, once we have adopted the Law at second reading, God forbid, I will pay attention to really making changes to the Penal Code because the huge thefts are primarily at the expense of well-intentioned Bulgarian consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u228	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there lines? Vladimir Tabutov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I agree with you. What we will propose during the discussion between first and second readings is precisely to address the problem that could possibly arise through the declarative nature of accession. The second important thing we should try to limit is the potential passage of electricity produced from electricity for own consumption to electricity sales. That is, we will try to make such changes to the text so as to limit the possibility, as far as the Law allows, of course, that European directives cannot benefit investors who do not want to consume this electricity but want to sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Any other lines? I won't. Do you want a hole, Mr. Georgiev? No. For the procedure Mr. Gajev. And then Zhecho Stankov or Temenuzhka Petkova for speech. Colleagues, as you agree with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u231	Mr President, I will ask the question that I have been asking since the beginning of today, namely whether there has already been a report on the draft decision by the Committee on Foreign Policy? I remind you that before there are-no two hours the President of your parliamentary group, I regret that he is not in the Chamber now, I promise, I quote: "We stand behind Ukraine and can rely on us in any way." - These are the words of your President, and it turns out ironically that your parliamentary group is the one who... Ah, I'm sorry, Mr. Gurov, you're here,...is the one blocking the examination of the decision, because if there is no report yet received, it means that it stays for May. I would therefore like to ask if there has already been a Report or if the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has taken the day off and has not come to work, and has therefore decided to start the holidays a little earlier than everyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u232	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You know perfectly well that it takes technological time to draw up the report and it is not just up to its President. Specifically, Mr. Minchev would have announced if he had done so. Colleagues, for a statement? Jeco Stankov, come in. Mr. Anastasov, then it's you, because the colleagues were recorded about 45 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, as a continuation, if you will, from yesterday's statement that your management for 100 days has turned the country into a hybrid vehicle, I now see that with this bill and Mr. Gurov's statement you will try to fill every hole that was created during your management with one photovoltaic panel. You're gonna turn the power on the boards, I apologize, they're gone, the guards are gone, so from now on, there's gonna be one energy flowing to the hybrid vehicle, the country that half its cost goes for electricity, and the other half goes for gasoline and diesel. But get to the point. Mr. Tabutov, to you. Indeed, I expected the opening of the Renewables Act, but to be honest, I expected this to happen by the Council of Ministers with the transposition of the directive. Many times we have spoken to you, the directive was adopted during the Bulgarian Presidency, one of the great prides of the Bulgarian Presidency................................. the goals for the coming years of the whole of Europe thanks to Bulgaria. We are failing to transpose this directive at the moment, provided that, as early as 1 July last year, it had to be transposed and entered into force. Instead, we see a bill that treats each of the problems per piece. Should there be a shortening of deadlines? Absolutely. Reducing the administrative burden is part of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which in our time has a special reform, meeting all the needs of RES manufacturers at a one-stop shop, speeding up their procedures and reducing the administrative burden. Another is the question, however, that the high cost of energy and insufficient aid to businesses, municipalities and generally to non-bit consumers has led to a precedent and it is thousands of megawatts of demand to electricity distribution companies and to the ECO for renewable energy accession. Here at BSP, 12 500 megawatts were only installed in our time, they are constantly growing, a colleague, and the maximum capacity that is consumed is about 7800 megawatts per hour that we have reached in our system, at least in the last 7 years. But the bigger problem I see is that this is where we put the country on each other's tracks. Once again, renewables are a good thing, they have to be imposed because Europe is showing us this time. However, the path we are going on right now is not the right one. Why? I assume you've taken the trouble, fellow importers, to look at all the opinions of the departments. First of all, the Ministry of Finance, in the face of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev, tells you: Right after them comes the Regional Ministry, which says: "Colegi legislators, you are making transposition of the RES directive into a piece. " In other words, the Commission will self-conceive and start a criminal procedure again. Last but not least, my esteemed experts from the Ministry of Energy, with whom I have had the opportunity to work for more than six years, come out and say: "People, you may even kill on the network, because you are not aware that the notification regime is technically not known how it will join and at the moment when network repairs are being carried out, it is not certain that electricity will not return on this network and from there to have a problem with both the loss of life and the security of the entire energy system. So get to the point. From our group, we have always supported the development of renewable energy, but under clear rules, in accordance with European Union rules. There is no way to stand behind this bill, which lacks the treatment of different types of renewable energy producers. What do I mean? Those that are industrial, which produce energy for the main purpose of bringing it into the network, those that Europe calls prosyumers.. produce part of the energy and put it into the network, but only the excess that they have not consumed. And last but not least, those who are the so-called off-grid that we are currently talking about. Before making this distinction in legislation, there is no way to limit it by just one declaration any renewable energy producer, subsequently asking to put energy into the network. And what will that lead to is more important. I am a representative of the Second In other words, if we go along the plane with the notification mode, imagine as mushrooms how one plants up to 5 megawatts will pop up there, because some of the colleagues say up to 5 megawatts, but misses helpfully to say that as it is for their own consumption, so it is written that in the property where there is no major building. In other words, maybe on a brand new property that doesn't have a single building, not to mention what type of project to start with notification mode. However, the main problems are yet to begin as soon as we break the overall European legislation and go directly against it. Energy communities or finding a way by which a person or a company that has produced energy is able to find a way to share it and find a way to use more than one enterprise is also not affected. So there are multiple holes missing that are not clear to date. On our part, Mr President, please accept it also during the speech, if possible, as a procedural proposal, so that I do not take further consideration, if the bill happens to pass at first reading, from our parliamentary group we hold for at least three weeks, in accordance with art. 79, if I am not mistaken, al. 1 of our Rules, establishing a working group to invite all stakeholders, including NGOs. Because even an organization such as Greenpeace, notice that it has always been firmly behind renewable energy, points out in detail in its opinion the vices of this bill. So from our group we will also hold for a working group, with the presence of operators both DSOs and TSOs, and to make it clear that network security will be maintained. And from the point of view of breaking European legislation, I would be delighted to see the legislator's opinion on how we will defend ourselves. Because the last time we talked to the Commission that the premium contracts are currently in the process of notification, this will get us into another notification before we have finished the previous one. So I'm hoping you'll give me a chance to do the douche afterwards. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u234	And thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there lines? Emil Georgiev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stankov, beyond any doubt, you are a very good expert, but I advise you to attend until the end of all meetings of the Energy Commission. If you had attended the last one, you would understand that a decision was made to establish such a working group to accept all the proposals, to look at them. Moreover, we decided that if we had to, we would have additional meetings of the Energy Commission, so that this draft law could enter into its cleanest form here in the Chamber at second reading. So, please, with all the expertise you have, don't let the MPs down. Do not let them down at least today on this beautiful day before Good Friday. Have a good holiday, everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u236	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Vladimir Tabutov for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stankov, I agree with you that with the proposed changes we do not treat all the legal changes that we need to transpose from the directive. Given the severe situation we are in, imposed by the war between Ukraine and Russia, this is a very rapid measure by which each undertaking will be able to reduce its electricity bill. This is the main objective.. it is recorded in the motives. So from this point of view, I agree that there is much more to be done in the field of energy, specifically Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u238	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there a third line? No. A hole, Mr. Stankov, would you like one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In line with the lines. Mr. Georgiev, there's one main reason why I first thank you for your recognition. I can't say I'm an energy expert. I try what I can to be useful to Bulgarian energy. For the past six years, this has been my primary objective. The main problem that I cannot attend every meeting of the Energy Commission is because at exactly the same time is my other committee Unfortunately, parliament's leadership failed to find a way for both committees to meet in at least one room. Quite often I happen to run, including when it rains or when there is snow, between the two halls and in an obscene manner to appear before your esteemed MPs to take attitude. But I'll take a note. I'll review every time my colleagues make statements so I can see what the situation is. To my colleague, Tabutov, yes, there is certainly a war in Ukraine. The problem is, however, that there is a working group that we have left in the Ministry of Energy from our time. I have appealed several times to the Minister of Energy to finally bring this ZID to the Law, because it is ultimately not so heavy. I can't understand what's been going on for almost a year now that it can't get to parliament. Whereas the task force was much earlier formed. I was even more concerned by the fact in the opinion of the Regional Ministry that it was written directly by Mr. Karadjov that their representatives were never invited to a working group, which confuses me. My request to you is: as one of the members of the Energy Commission to give impetus to the Energy Ministry because, I repeat, the future of the development of renewable energy in Bulgaria passes undoubtedly through the Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act. So without its renewal in time we will get ourselves into trouble first, a criminal procedure from Europe and secondly, the inability to make all investments in the country's territory. However, I have another concern that during your speeches you mentioned that funding for this type of renewables is not necessary because they happen on a market basis. What bothered me was that during the redesign of the Plan several things happened to the small and medium businesses, which in most cases have a problem finding these funds. We'd bet 200,000. EUR per De minimis to be able to build. Because, you know, 200,000. EUR to 400 kg of capacity worthy of every medium-sized enterprise in the country. On the other hand, we saw something else. Yes, for Bulgarian RES there is no need for funding. However, a megafund was created for RES, where only 25% are for small RESs and 75% for large RESs. Let's put it to ourselves in a straight text, the number of fingers of one hand companies in Bulgaria, who can afford to be here we are no longer talking about five megawatts, but about much larger capacities to start building them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In other words, the money for Bulgaria's recovery and sustainability will go in the pocket of companies from Spain, Germany, France, Italy and so on. So that's my concern. My other concern is that all the time we're talking about batteries, even at some point I expected to see in the Bill, or maybe at a second reading that for any such project there will be a gift a battery. This is in the circle of the joke, of course. One of the natural batteries, you know, for renewable energy is green hydrogen, through all its strategies we have had a chance with colleagues to discuss this thing. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In the Plan in its final version, the pipelines that can transport green hydrogen completely disappeared. It seems that a change in the Law on certain investments is being made, while everyone else remains on the second plan and loses their weight. My request is that you have always been open to the proposal: 21 days if the Bill passes, carefully with all the stakeholders and that we can make a bill that meets the requirements of all the needy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u240	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. You've taken more than a minute out of that jacket. I think you've seized one of Mr. Anastasov's topics. Let's see if I'm right. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable importers! I will start with a quote from an opinion: "According to the provision of art. 4, para. 1 of the Energy Policy Act of the Republic of Bulgaria is conducted by the Minister of Energy, which is why we believe that the amendments and additions to the Law proposed by the above-mentioned MPs are within the competence of the Minister of Energy. Asen Vassilev "Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance." What do we do now, guys? Take it easy, guys. This opinion of Asen Vassilev is for a bill of opposition. He has other principles for you. This text is not present in your opinion. It's okay. I'm serious now. Mr. Stefanov said that at first reading we should comment on the bill in its fullness. I totally agree with him. However, I will comment on it in its incompleteness, unfortunately. First of all, colleagues, your bill dates back to March 11th, and it's pretty late, it's retro. What you are proposing is not a response to the European Commission's proposals, the latter, more popular as Repair you, but a response to the Commission's first recommendations of October 13th, notice last year. That is, the fast train of change is moving five months late to the translation into Bulgarian language and another month late on a topic which, according to the European Union and all the countries concerned in Bulgaria, apart from you, is extremely urgent to be adopted. In a way, that's good, but your delay is really huge. Second, the actuality. You are proposing that we adopt two parameters that are no longer relevant. Firstly, the ceiling of five megawatts currently in the revision of the Directive is agreed to be increased to 10 megawatts. Colleagues, by the way, nothing stops you from doing things that are currently established, and we do not have to wait for the directives to be voted on and approved. We can be a little more innovative from the point of view that Bulgaria also has a bigger problem with the energy independence and security of the electricity system. You know damn well why. So it's nice to set the clock here. Secondly, colleagues, your proposal focuses solely on photovoltaic installations in urbanised areas. There are two very large sub-questions here, colleagues. First of all, why just photovoltaic? Who tipped you off? Yes, it's not written out unnecessaryly, I see, Mr. Sabrutev, but technologically it is described only the photovoltaic installations correspond to the proposals described in the bill. Who tipped you off? Colleagues, the EU is for technological neutrality. In other words, all technologies, including biomass, including hydrogen, for which Mr. Stankov, with some delay, has spoken, I welcome you, and others, there are many other innovative technologies that are currently being commercialised. There is absolutely no need to limit ourselves to just one technology. There are many productions, you know, that can use raw materials that are waste to them, to produce energy and to meet their own energy needs. Secondly, colleagues, why only urbanized territories? We really didn't get that. Are there no sectors in Bulgaria, such as agriculture, forestry and others, which have processing capacities that require electricity? Aren't there any households, coworkers? You wrote that your bill applies only to non-profit consumers. Apparently not. This I find an answer in your bill or they are simply not in the sight of those who are focused on the large photovoltaic... Thirdly, what exactly are you offering us and what are the policies of the European Union? You offer us RES for own consumption, that is, without joining the network. Colleagues, this is still a completely different focus. It is aimed rather at those who are looking for where to invest their funds as an investment in renewable energy and not at households and those small and medium-sized enterprises that need to reduce their electricity costs and any other energy, including heat, and which is the focus of European Union policies. Because the challenge that the European Union currently has, in particular Bulgaria, is precisely energy efficiency, energy independence and security of energy supply. Fourth, colleagues, there is something huge as a question mark that has not found a place in your bill, which is extremely stopping and delaying procedures for the construction of all kinds of capacities. Even if you like, the most ordinary photovoltaics that you've focused on here. There is no change in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. You know very well all those who build capacities, even in fact, even technologically, is unnecessary change of purpose. It's one of the toughest procedures. You know that. The committees are meeting in very large periods. It is very difficult and it pays some extra money from the investor who goes to the state. This should also find a place between first and second reading if you want support for your bill. In a nutshell, we will support you, but under condition. The first condition for which we will support you that this is, after all, the first bill, which in some way addresses the problems with electricity prices and energy dependence in Bulgaria. This is indeed your first bill, colleagues, and without a hint of nagging for six months, in which you have done nothing as a bill in this topic, this is the first one and we will welcome it. The second thing that we really hope to find reflections on all these notes that we have made is: the second reading bill, if you want support, must acquire such a form that it still solves the problems of households and small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, to reduce their electricity bills and allow them to construct the so-called microgrids. Even if you tell me that the network is not ready, I can immediately ask you the question: why should we invest more than a billion and a half, because there is no clear ceiling in batteries and not in a network that develops. Because you know that even countries, even our neighbours, who are pό in the North, have less sunshine, build small and microgrids of photovoltaics and other types of RES that are connected and connected. So, if you want support, the Bill must acquire this kind of... if you can't, we will offer it, of course, leave a longer period so that we can make it quality and all these works to find a place. However, the Bill must acquire such a form as to solve the problems of households, small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, I'm sorry, don't do it. However, we will support you because this is your first effort to do something with great delay. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u242	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Anastasov! I want to distract one myth and one concern from everyone. We are only talking here about easing the procedure for installing this type of own-use capacity. What does that mean? That a batch already exists, there are already facilities that are connected to the power grid. In other words, the concern you expressed that agricultural land would fall within the scope of our legal changes is not accurate. Indeed, what we are doing is everyone who, at the moment, those small and medium-sized enterprises that are production capacities, we want them to be able to install any kind of power plants as quickly as possible. Nowhere in the changes we have proposed does it say what type of installation we want to install. Thus, the changes in their being follow the way in which the Renewable Energy Act has already described the different technologies. So we remain agnostic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u244	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. Zhecho Stankov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u245	My fellow Member, I am very worried by your last words that you will support the bill, although you have listed all its vices all of its vices that have been affected by me. In fact, hydrogen was just a small part. And if we're talking about renewable energy right now, it's an additional vice that our power grid can't withstand if they're all electrified. This is undoubtedly proven, including during a meeting of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly of the Energy Commission. You remember then, the CEZ colleagues came when certain problems were expected to occur with the Sofia thermal treatment. In the same bill, even if colleagues with transposition of the directive are not ready, we must set a clear path by which, so to speak, the veins of the energy system, which is part of our gas network... I sincerely hope the Greek connection is ready. She had to be ready, by the way, if you remember, by the end of the year, but the government couldn't handle it either. On the other hand, they repeat the mantra that it was built for 12 years, provided that the construction started at the end of 2018. [[Reply.]] On 2019, I apologize. From this point of view in this bill, I think you should also insist on seeing a point by point after making a commitment that no new gas supplies will be negotiated, the green gas that will flow through the veins of this energy system, where it will come from. And if this law does not have a sufficiently facilitated procedure for that, then we will face another problem - that next winter we will be quite cold, at least due to the fact that we have not considered how we will fill not only the gas system, but also the Chiren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u246	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Vasil Stefanov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Anastasov, the bill does not distinguish who to install capacities, and that is what is important to note. The bill is aimed at the relief of both domestic and non-domestic consumers, and the only requirement is for it to be for own consumption. That is why we are also trying to take care of domestic consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u248	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. A hole? You have the floor, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Tabutov, maybe I didn't say it right. We have no concerns, on the contrary, we want it to include agricultural land. We want both farmers and the processing industry to be able to build on agricultural land quickly RES and use their consumption without having to go through this expensive and unnecessary complex procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land, which is unique for Bulgaria, by the way. I've never heard of anyone else like that and so complicated to be. Yes, there is, Mr. Stankov, there's a disability bill, but it's the first real one. Nothing prevents this from being used for a good foundation, as long as you are open enough to look for a solution to the problem, because the European Union gives us a lot of solutions to the problem. Not only hydrogen, I say again, there are experimental technologies that are currently commercialized. Europe is a very targeted source of money in a certain type of energy that can depend on local resources because this is already objective for granted. And as for what you did to me as a line, Mr. Stefanov. Mr. Stefanov, we of the DPS believe that households, small and medium-sized enterprises, should be a priority in the construction of such installations. Yeah, because... [[Reply.]] No, I'm not saying to limit ourselves to them, but to be a priority, because they are the most vulnerable and with them the problem is the biggest. We're talking about people here, we're talking about that guy or that family who wants to cut their electricity bill because, not to lie to each other, there's no way infinity CEWRC can keep electricity prices even on the regulated market at this level. If he holds it, he'll be milking through taxes, so we'll all still pay the electricity one way or another, and the small and medium need to survive. That's it. The big ones, while they can use some kind of resource, and by the way, as far as I know, a lot of them have already built installations and have gone through even heavier procedures, the small and medium want a fast track to be able to do so as quickly as possible. And if they can also return the electricity to the network so that they can use this as a financial instrument for their business, this is the European model. The other is, unfortunately, so far we have a little Bulgarian model of something good, but what to do is there is always a chance to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u250	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Temenuzhka Petkova for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Perhaps at the beginning we should start by saying that Bulgaria is one of the few Member States of the European Union, which has implemented its national objective of producing electricity from renewable energy sources. According to the national objective, which was set by the European Union for Bulgaria, a 16% share in the final gross consumption of energy from renewable energy sources. By the end of 2020, this national objective we not only fulfilled it, but overrun it, with 24% being the share of renewable energy in the country's final gross consumption. This Renewable Energy Act has been developed and fully transposed the Directive on the promotion of electricity generation from RES, so we cannot say that this law does not meet European requirements. What we can certainly say is that at present, applications for joining the installed power generation grid from RES are, notice, 16 thousand megawatts. This means, honourable Members, that this law provides a sufficient opportunity and preferences, and a eased regime for each of us, whether it be a domestic consumer, whether it be a business, to be able to build such an installation and to use it for its own use, for energy production, for energy trading as it sees fit. With the change being proposed at the moment, I think they are fully seeing concrete lobbying interests, it is sewn together with white threads simply. First of all, there is a change in art. 24, where the more relaxed mode of connection of RES power generators is defined, the legislator has clearly distinguished at this time that these are domestic consumers and these are installations that are installed on roof structures, on facade structures up to 30 kilos, and on production and warehouses and premises up to 200 kilos. With what you are proposing, the power of these installed capacities is sharply changed, which suddenly become five megawatts, unclear for what reasons. I, and within the Commission, asked you how did you decide that exactly up to five megawatts would have an appropriate preferential regime for the accession of these capacities? I never got an answer. Dear colleagues should know that production plants that use five megawatts of electricity for their own consumption are counted on the fingers of one hand and they have long since built such a type of system. Just to make it clear what five megawatts are, five megawatts is the consumption of electricity from Vidin municipality. Imagine what this is all about. Who would this manufacturer be, what would be this warehouse or production activity, which would consume such amount of electricity? This is definitely about lobbying and promoting corporate interests in order to produce and sell electricity. That in the provision of art. 24 is recorded that the respective manufacturer or company that wants to use this preferential regime will sign one declaration is a complete butaphory. Signing a statement that you're not going to return energy to the network, sorry, but this is just not serious. So this is not going to convince any professional in the field of energy that by signing a declaration, energy will not return to the network. This concern, by the way, was also shared within the Commission by the electricity distribution companies, so that with regard to art. 24 vices are many. But everything about your talk about the fact that this change aims to speed up the whole process of joining producers of electricity for their own consumption collapses as soon as we see the Additional provisions to this bill, by which you amend the Law on Construction in the territory. And there you have very clearly written that this eased regime will apply to territories where there is no basic building. This means that in a yard, an empty yard, in a urbanized territory, you can build such a power up to five megawatts, depending on what the yard is, depends on what the territory is, and those up to five megawatts in practice, since there will be no basic building, means that there is no building, means that there is no user, that means that this energy will be intended for sale. Up to five megawatts this is extremely serious power, colleagues! And it is no coincidence that the legislator has so far clearly signed the cases in which such capacities can be built without an opinion from the ECO or without an opinion from the electricity distribution companies, and these are the cases that would not jeopardise the security of the system. With this text that you are proposing, there is an extremely serious risk of security of electricity supply, because no one can guarantee that anyone who has joined or who has built such power will be conscientious and because he has signed a declaration will not return energy to the network. This is happening now and at present, and the problems that arise are very serious. I therefore appeal to you that this lobbying bill should be withdrawn, and if measures are actually proposed that are related to business relief, reducing administrative burdens, we can think together But what you're proposing, fellow Members, is nothing but pure lobbying. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Mrs. Kirova, to speak. Please, you have the floor. Colleagues, this is the last person to sign up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I am extremely sorry that the House did not get involved in the proposal, which made my colleague Radomir Cholakov to conclude at 2:00 p.m., to withdraw the bill of amendment and supplement, to be revised and submitted to the Chamber so that it can produce an effect. Because the fact is that beyond good intentions, and I really welcome the good intentions to ease legislation, we have come to this conclusion and nothing in the Energy Committee can be used in practice in the proposed amendments. The fact is that out of the four paragraphs that are proposed to us, two of the paragraphs are related to amendments to the Transitional and Final Provisions, and if you have paid attention to this, Mr. Tabutov, the ministers of your ruling majority with firm opinions, one by one have explained that what you want and propose is not working. So beyond the good intentions with which it is paved and the path to Hell, in what we are offered, we see nothing but amateur attempts to accomplish some private goals. I sincerely hope that you will put some sense into it and realize that what you are proposing cannot serve as a foundation. I welcome what Mr. Stanislav Anastasov said, who quite bravely said that he would support the bill at first reading, with the remark that this bill should be revised and, of course, with his perhaps strong belief that there is something to remain after processing. If you carefully familiarize yourself with the opinions of the various ministers and ministries, you will understand that what you are proposing really cannot leave even a skeleton to be attached to and make changes in the spirit of your very good intentions. In this regard, I sincerely hope, because the changes you are proposing regarding the Law on Construction in the Area show a profound ignorance of the principles of spatial planning. I sincerely hope that you do not exercise in this area, and at least when you submit such bills and intentions, to consult with the experts in your group and your minister, because the Law on Construction in the Area is a field of exercise by many and many different trying lawmakers, but good legislation makes sense and it only happens when the results of what we offer are complex and whether they are really necessary in the way they are offered. You remember that we had a discussion in the Commission about this and I asked you if you had an analysis of what this bill would produce? How many businesses would benefit from one power up to 5 megawatts, in this case we are talking about 5 megawatts and not 200, because there are already reliefs in the Law and you then said that no analysis was done. Once again we are faced with this, you know how long this amendment of the Bill has actually matured and how many times we have commented in the Commission. I hope that you now have numerical data and dimensions of all that is offered to us specifically what the effect will be, because I am convinced that it is extremely difficult to revise between first and second readings what you import. Therefore, I best suggest that you withdraw it, rework it together with the experts from the relevant ministries, not just as listeners, who were present by the Ministry of Energy in the Commission, at least at the first two meetings, and then offer us an option that we would all be happy to support if it really is in favour of all electricity consumers that are listed in the Bill, in this case not only domestic and non-vice consumers, but also all small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Are there lines? Mr. Cholakov, come in. I'll get there with my eyes that way. It's just someone yelling from the far left.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u255	I had decided not to take an opinion on this bill because it is not related to my close expertise, but what I have heard from Mrs Kirova and, Mrs Kirova, I would ask you once again to confirm it, and also the colleagues in the Chamber, who are more deeply involved in the problem. Is it true that under this bill there is no positive opinion from the portfolio ministries? I mean, does the majority really adopt a bill relating to energy that has a negative, negative opinion from the Ministry of Energy? Are there any other ministries with negative opinions? Because I may not understand energy, colleagues, but it seems to me that I know little about administration and law, and from now on I can tell you that if your administration is against your bill, it will not generate action. How do you imagine the people's representation to impose on the administration, specialized administration, professionally, a bill that she says cannot be implemented. Please answer this question, how does this work?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u256	Are there any other lines, colleagues? No. Mrs. Kirova, do you want a jacket? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, this was noticed by all members of the board. In fact, this is also noted in the Committee on Regional Development and Public Works and is clear from the attached opinions, and there is no doubt. So I repeat, this bill is just a good intention. One sentence and someone decided they had to help someone. And it is indeed commendable because this is the first step of December in solving some problem with regard to energy, but the way is so amateur and gives such an inability to solve the problem that it opens the door to create much more problems. And yes, I agree with Mrs. Petkova, there are lobbying interests here. I suggest that we first think about citizens and society and then think about meeting the needs of our own connected businesses, whatever they are. If we really wanted to solve a problem in energy and really solve the problem of citizens in terms of high electricity prices, we would have accepted and looked at proposals that have been aged for a long time since December in the National Assembly's Office. Today there is no solution on these issues and there is no initiative by the ruling majority. Don't think it's over with electricity prices. Just because summer is coming and consumption is down doesn't mean the problem is solved. One word to Mr. Zhecho Stankov. To be off-grid, the user must have legislation in this regard. Such legislation is not thought of by the importers of this bill, because in fact their objective is not those capacities that will join to power only and only the user concerned. An empty lot couldn't have already opened a batch. That's what you said and answered in connection with Mr. Stankov's statement. There is no way there is such a lot that already exists and, as you have said, only for such users. There are many discrepancies and they are quite sad. Let's not practice in legislation. In the classroom, in the course at Sofia University, which we call Harvard, exercises are acceptable. Everyone there manifests himself, exercises himself, pretends to be a lawmaker, but in fact we joke about something that is extremely serious as matter. Once again, I kindly suggest that you withdraw your proposal before we are finished voting, there is a way to revise it. We are willing to have such changes indeed, but to make them the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u258	Thank you. To speak, Victoria Vassileva. You have the floor, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I can't remember how long it's been since the Passion Week was so full of raccoons. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "From last year. "]] , but I will start with a thank you, first of all, to all the colleagues who stood up on this stand and made quite meaningful speeches, said their concerns quite professionally and pragmatically, gave their ideas to improve this law. But at the same time, there were also enough colleagues who allowed themselves to make nonexistent conclusions, to make suggestions, to speak frankly untruths, so that I wouldn't say anything louder. Either way, there's no one to question the good intentions of this bill. And in this regard, I would like to assure you of all the critics of the Bill, saying much of your criticisms are absolutely justified. This conversation has been held, including within our coalition, but unlike everyone else, we have gathered in a purely cohesive manner, we have had several working meetings with the Ministry of Energy, with the Ministry of Regional Development, with the Ministry of Finance and I assure you that absolutely all your concerns and remarks have been answered and they will be made in due order between first and second reading, and then you will be convinced that in the end, when a law is proposed, it is never perfect. Yes, there may be a lot less remarks than there are on this one at the moment, but that does not mean that this law cannot be corrected. So please do not make such conclusions and suggestions that this law is irreparable, no, it is quite correct and you will see that when you get acquainted with the proposals that we will make between first and second readings on the Bill. Thank you, colleagues, happy holidays!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any lines, coworkers? A line, Mr. Stankov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, I understand your desire to soften in some way the coalition's approach to this bill, even more so, that the office is represented by your quota. Once again, I would like to say that the Deputy Minister of Energy has given not one but two negative opinions. I repeat, two negative opinions that say: watch out, this is not right what you are doing. I allow myself, even though I am neither Chairman nor Vice-President of the Energy Commission, to invite you subsequently and to the working group to hear for yourself how many open questions there are. Here I will return to the point that this room does not think about people. In this bill, even so torn apart, even so in pieces, something very important is missing. In the continuation of the Sanitation Program, we have deliberately bet the buildings to be class B. This means that it will be a combination of energy efficiency-renewable energy. It is, however, in the Renewable Energy Act that we need to bring in how to make these energy cooperatives so that people in the bloc can benefit from renewable energy. Where it has not been prescribed to be able to invest or to have sufficient financial instruments to support it so that it cannot become so greener the energy they are using, but that they have a significant cost of electricity. On the one hand, 50% with the insulation and with the windows and, on the other, with renewable energy, whether it be heat or electricity to minimize, not to say to zero their energy consumption accounts at certain times. So please come to the Commission, these are the important questions. This is the agenda of society. We have to help people slow down... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm done. To cut their electricity bills. And what's more, I'm going to say again right now, this high need for renewables has come, we still need to think about it, because in April, the period of aid for non-bit consumers is over, it came because non-bit consumers are worried about what will happen to electricity bills from now on. So let the law go, but we have to go in the direction of actually thinking about people, about business, about local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u262	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stankov, yes, I know that there are negative opinions and not only from the Ministry of Energy, including the Ministry of Regional Development. That is precisely why we sat down and precisely with these deputy ministers, the ministers, from the relevant ministries, corrected the texts so as to avoid all these problems that are really at stake in the Bill in this form. I say again, these opinions are to the Bill as it is tabled, but this does not mean that they cannot be corrected between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I'm calling off the discussion. For the procedure Mrs. Rositsa Kirova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u265	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. When drafts are submitted at first reading with four paragraphs, of which all four paragraphs have absolutely negative opinions from the portfolio ministries and for which the overwhelming opinion, even in the committees, is negative, I would ask you not to expect from us... [[Heckling]] No, I can't! Please don't talk to me from where I'm standing! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u266	Where's the procedure? Where's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u267	...for which...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u268	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u269	Please! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u270	Both committees voted for! Don't lie, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u271	Yes, but I was involved in the debate and I know what is being said! As an importer, it is normal to have a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u272	Colleagues, please don't debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u273	Please don't expect the House to be aware of the coalition decisions and the revisions, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u274	There are reports from the committees!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u275	...which you did on a coalition council.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u276	There are reports from the committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u277	We have no way of knowing which texts you've cleared...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u278	The procedure, Mrs. Kirova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u279	...and how from the four paragraphs you have made new four to meet the requirements of the Law. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u280	What's the procedure, Mrs. Kirova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u281	If there are any, introduce us to them, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u282	Dear colleagues, I will put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act with importers Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs submitted on 11 March 2022. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 110, against 32, abstention 7. That's how the offer is accepted. For procedure Mr. Vasil Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u283	To extend the period between the two readings to 21 days, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u284	I will also report your procedure, Mr. Stankov. We'll put it to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings be a total of 2 weeks, 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-21.u286	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Colleagues, please take your seats so we can make another or two final votes before this meeting is over. I put to the vote Mr. Zhecho Stankov's proposal the deadline for proposals between the two readings to be 3 weeks, then, if this is not accepted, and Mr. Stefanov's proposal. We are voting on Mr. Zhecho Stankov's proposal for proposals between the two readings to be 3 weeks. They voted 143 MPs: 55 against 76, abstention 12. That's why the offer isn't accepted. Now I put to the vote Mr. Stefanov's proposal the deadline for proposals between the two readings to be 14 days. They voted 119 MPs: 114, against 5, no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, we are closing this meeting. I wish you a happy holiday and a pleasant holiday. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
