ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. We need two more. [[Noise and lines.]] Here comes Mr. Gochev. [[Noise and lines.]] It's 9:05. Abort registration. Next registration in 10 minutes. Found at 9:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u2	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. 131 MPs are registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we begin, colleagues, I will read you a few messages: 1. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft from the Republic of Bulgaria to the Hellenic Republic and vice versa, with crew of soldiers of the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. 2. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with crew of the Royal Air Force of Thailand. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearance should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 9 June 2022, with an IC. No 47-203-09-60 and 61, and provided to the Defence Committee. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, opinions of the Fiscal Council have been received on draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget and Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. By a resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the materials have been sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, and the respective portfolio committees to which they are allocated. The National Assembly received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets as of 31 March 2022 from: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with a report for 2021; the Ministry of Electronic Governance; the Ministry of Economy and Industry; the Ministry of Energy; the Ministry of Health; the Constitutional Court; the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants the floor.]] There's a statement, first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u3	It concerns what you read.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u4	Okay. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a procedure, and then Mr. Mateev for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since you have read what is allocated to budget changes, there is a change in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and the budget is not allocated to the Committee on Media and Culture. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u6	Thank you. Put an objection, Mr. Yordanov, as President of the Commission. Here you are, Mr. Mateev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday, we MPs from the Parliamentary Group continued the Change, introduced the draft Law on Countering Corruption in the National Assembly. Corruption is a social evil that destroys the foundations of government. The lack of effective fight against high-level corruption has lasting negative economic, social and political consequences for our country, both internally and internationally. The waste of public funds, the deepening of poverty and the reduction of foreign investment are the real economic consequences of corruption. Corruption is among the main reasons for the loss of public confidence in the institutions and the lack of justice, especially in the years of the management of GERB. The economic dependence of political elites violates the democratic balance and the political rights of citizens. Realizing all of this, we from the Change Continue, identify corruption as the number one enemy for Bulgaria's social and economic development and stated our determination to fight uncompromisingly in our election program. The found deficits in the actions of the body called to counter corruption motivate us to create a new body, with wider and at the same time focused powers, which is neither an umbrella for the corrupt nor a bat for the inconvenient for the power, such as the notorious KKCONPI, appointed and controlled by GERB, but to be an independent body that conducts an effective and qualitative investigation and detection of corruption events and schemes at all levels of power. At the same time, we set sufficient safeguards to prevent it becoming a repressive organ. This bill has been suspended for a long time with backstage games and absurd ultimatively laid down conditions that would make it impossible for the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission established with it by individuals representing the political leadership of "There is such a people." Behind their demands there is a fear of verification of integrity, of enlightening their property, interests and dependencies. They wanted to have a man of their own on the Commission with the right to veto the decisions on who should be examined and investigated and who should not. These people continue to talk about morality and the fight against corruption, but they did their best not to have an effectively working and investigating corruption crime body. The time for persuading and compromising is over. We from "Keep On Changing" have already put on the table our views on effective countering and revealing corruption in power. We present our project as a working anti-corruption body to the public, hoping for an open and professional debate in the National Assembly and calling on all honourable MPs who are aware of their responsibility to their voters to respond to their demands and hopes for justice and morality in the government of the state by supporting our bill. The vote on the Anti-Corruption Act will show where the dividing line between the participating and the concealing corruption schemes and those fighting this social evil will pass. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Please come in for a procedure, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Chairman, I take the floor under the procedure in the manner of conduct and in that the request submitted by the DPS parliamentary group on 17 March for a hearing in the parliament of Prime Minister Cyril Petkov on anti-crisis measures has never been included in the agenda of the meetings so far, that is to say almost three months. Then, when we submitted this request for a hearing by the government, there was no talk of anti-crisis measures at all, while in other countries, the first ones were already applied, and now there are two, third packages. The government presented some measures only three weeks ago and today we are witnessing how they were assessed. Yesterday, the Parliamentary Budget and Finance Committee did not accept the government's proposed budget update. Prior to that, the proposed package of measures was not approved by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, even employers' organizations have vowed to organise protests on 22 and 29 June. It did not receive approval from the Coalition's expert council, we saw what followed politically. We at the DPS also expressed our disapproval of these measures because of their inadequacy. I have now taken the floor on this issue not to make an example that if the DSS requested a hearing of Kiril Petkov, we might not be in this situation, first, to protect the basic principle in the Constitution, namely that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. The powers of parliament and the duties of the members of the Council of Ministers are clear to report to parliament. Secondly, to stress that in this serious crisis, which Bulgaria is in, we all had to be at the height of our responsibilities to meet the expectations of the public for support from the state. Your main commitment as President of the National Assembly is to uphold the principle of the leading role of Parliament in the state government, Mr. Minchev. I say this with all due respect to you. Standing by this principle is fundamental to democracy. Therefore, we pay attention to the outstanding hearing of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov in parliament, requested by the DPS parliamentary group. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. In order to stand the principle of the leading role of parliament in the state government in order to defend democracy, with such requests, we continue the Change and they had to be realised, which unfortunately did not happen. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u10	Thank you, Associate Professor Chakarov, for bringing my attention to this matter again. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] We continue with the National Assembly's legislative agenda for this week. We're at point nine right now: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE COONOMIC OVERVIEW OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA BETWEEN BULGARIA, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION OF ANOTHER COUNTRY. Yesterday we were presented with the reports of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation and we opened the discussion. Recorded for speech is Borislav Antonov. Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 25 January 2022, a decision of the OECD Council on the opening of negotiations concerning the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development was adopted. Joining the OECD is among the main priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, our country is exercising enhanced cooperation with the OECD. The main and mandatory step of the roadmap for the actions of the Republic of Bulgaria in joining the OECD is the preparation of the so-called economic review. By Decision No 138 of 2022, the Council of Ministers approved the Agreement. Yesterday, we heard reports from the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, which supported the Agreement, respectively, by 14 votes for and 16 votes for, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on ratification in the first vote. We of the Change believe, as well as, I hope, the majority of the present MPs and parliamentary groups in this House that Bulgaria should be on the path of economic prosperity. Bulgaria can and should be a rich country, not a stolen country. The economic review of the OECD Organisation, which has some of the best experts in economics, statistics, econometry, sustainable development, transport and energy worldwide, can only be of benefit to Bulgaria on the way to our accession to the OECD and to the European Union. The natural path for Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union is also to be part of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In times of global security threats, changing economic models, combating climate change, in times when dealing with social inequalities and the well-being of all Bulgarian citizens, with the top priority of the Change Government, the OECD economic assessment will only benefit Bulgaria, especially, and last but not least, in the fight against corruption that we spoke about just now. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are all chosen in this Chamber to work for the prosperity and economic prosperity of the Bulgarian people. We have also been chosen to build the international prestige and authority of our nation and our country. The OECD membership is a major and significant step in this direction. I therefore call on all Members of Parliament, regardless of your groups, to unanimously approve the Agreement at first reading today and why not at second reading. Unity makes power! Long live Bulgaria free, rich and confident! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Are there any lines to Mr. Antonov? I can't see. To speak, I am recording for speech, Aleksandar Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our group will support the ratification of this agreement because it was one of the main priorities of our third cabinet and without the work of the four years we managed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Environment and not to list all the institutions and ministries that worked to make this agreement possible to undergo ratification today. Therefore, colleagues, we continue the Change.. I specifically address you, it is nice to remind you from time to time that not everything starts from you that a series of governments and experts have worked for years some of the things you are offering today.... actually not some, but a large part of them to be possible because it has been a long way. Membership in this organisation is not exactly like membership in the European Union, but working on it is no less a series of analyses, a series of legislative amendments have been made to enable this to be a fact. In fact, during our office together with the business, not only with the institutions, we developed the Road map, which was awarded and accepted more than two years ago at the Organization. And I really wish that we could see this continuity, not only with regard to the OECD, but also with regard to other foreign policy priorities, because it is not visible on all of them. Only with a long-term and consistent foreign policy, and not only because it is not only foreign policy here, it is much more widespread here, I am sure that some of my colleagues who have worked very intensively and daily to make this possible will also explain exactly what is done. And not for anything else, not to waste parliamentary time, but to get to know each other and really finally realize that not everything starts with you. So we will support this ratification and I really think here I agree with the negotiation that this is an important step for the Republic of Bulgaria to become a member of, so to speak, the Club of the Rich, joining this organization in time, because there is much more way to go. In fact, this ratification is not the end, there is still a way to go. And I hope that the ministers, however distracted they are at the moment with the political crisis, will continue in our footsteps so that what we have started can be brought to the end. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Replices to Ekaterina Zaharieva? Alexandra Korcheva has a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, yes, it is. In our joint work you know that we also prioritize the work on Bulgaria's admission to the OECD and the start of the negotiation process, but we all know very well that one of the main topics that we are dealing with is the fight against corruption. So we would be happy to support the bill we entered. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Second line to Ekaterina Zaharieva? I won't. You don't want a doppelganger. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our group will support this decision today because joining the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is a result of the efforts of governments over the last 10 years, if not more. There are also concrete results before the formation of this cabinet - one of these concrete results, for example, is Bulgaria's accession to the Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, i.e. efforts are being made in this direction a long time ago. However, one of the main criticisms of the OECD towards Bulgaria and a condition for it to be accepted in this club of the rich, because the OECD is not something else, but a club of the rich, was to manage the state enterprises more effectively. I don't know if you know this, but the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has special guidelines for good corporate governance of this type of enterprise. And what GERB's last government did was to adopt a Law on Public Enterprises, which would introduce this model of good corporate governance in state enterprises. However, colleagues, unfortunately, despite the three-year efforts of the government in question, procedures for the selection of professional leadership of these enterprises and so on, many of them were quickly replaced by the political guides appointed by you, completely contrary to the spirit of the law, completely contrary to the guidelines and requirements of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I hope this personnel policy, this purge, will not continue or at least not continue this way. When you want to change management of state enterprises, you can do so by law. You can organise a competition through the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, which we have changed and became the Public Enterprises Agency, following the rules and following the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, because this will increase our chances of receiving into this really very important organisation. There's one more thing I want to say. Why is it important to join this club of the rich? Because this will give us a chance to invest more in the country. Investors look not only at NATO and European Union membership, but at which countries are a member of the OECD and which are not. This will give us better interest rates, this will give us better conditions for business, this will show once again that our country is advanced and our country is part of this club of the rich. But, again, I want to tell you, in my opinion, the obstacle is what you do with purges in state-owned enterprises, because it was one of the requirements for joining the OECD that you violate. Thank you. But we will support the bill. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Replices to Delyan Dobrev? Atanas Mihnev. [[(Strong noise from GERB-SDS. (Laughter)]] Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u19	Mr. Chairman, it is almost life-saving when the economic power of the Political Party GERB engages in an economic discussion And indeed, for our membership in the OECD, we need to note that it is good that we are approaching the Club of Developed Countries. In the last year you know that Bulgaria increased its exports by 38%, foreign investments multiplied by three, we stand quite well in... [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall. Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u20	In a little while, you'll take it and explain about the foreign investment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u21	And here comes the question: why are we just now finalizing our accession to the OECD? Why didn't this happen sooner? And I respect the OECD recommendations to Bulgaria from 2021, as of January, when GERB managed: Bulgaria needs reforms to improve competition, eliminate corruption, better and more efficient governance. But now, notice, in order to reform the state enterprises, Delyan Dobrev once again refers us to another agency and gout created by GERB, because several times I have said by this tribune, Bulgaria is not governed by us in the National Assembly, it is governed by agencies, regulators, gouts that have been appointed by the forty-fourth National Assembly and/or, to which the forty-fourth National Assembly extended the mandate so that we could not change them. So we continue to change and it has one main goal and it is to free our country from these regulators, agencies and gouts, which are actually a symbol of the conquered state. Thank you. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Partial applause from the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Second line? Second line to Delyan Dobrev from Toshko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u23	Mr. Dobrev, in this Parliament I am constantly observing the same thing, which makes your parliamentary group one of you going out and then a man, Vash, comes out to replicate it so you can talk for long. [[(Laughter) Replies from GERB-SDS.)]] We were watching the same thing right now. You made a statement and a representative of your youth organization came out to rip off your shirt so you could answer. It's not cool! [[(Applause. Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u24	Is there a third line to Delyan Dobrev? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u25	Mr. Yordanov, I am partly in agreement with you because my colleague really gave me the opportunity for three more minutes of the stand, and it does not count as part of the parliamentary time this, but I do not agree that he is telling me something useful because I could not understand it without the jeep that is rolling here on the stands, i.e. without this jeep I could not understand what he wants to say to me. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And with regard to good governance of state-owned companies, I will give you only one example. You replaced Bulgargaz with a private trader director from which you then started buying gas. Is this your transparent management policy for state companies? You took the Director of the Private Mediator and put him as Director of the Bulgargaz, and the moment when he became Director of the Private Mediator Bulgargaz, he started buying gas from his own company. Do you understand the insolence that this is? [[Applause from GERB SDS.]] And talking to me here about good management of state companies is a shame! It's brazen! And I'll tell you one more thing. For last year, Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) was at a profit of 99 million. This new director, do you know what he did? He reduced the profits to 60 million so he could transfer a financial result to this year so he could pin it on himself. And despite last year's 30 million stolen financial result, this company is still at a loss for the first quarter. This is your management of the enterprise. [[Reply.]] Well, because despite the plus 30 million transferred this year, they lost minus 40 first quarter and the final score is still negative. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] This is the management of state enterprises. The money is in the gas brokers 100 million for May, that's where the money is. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u26	Thank you for the backdrop, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Tabutov, for a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u27	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u28	Okay. Procedure in the manner of conduct by Mr. Tabutov. Then Denitsa Nikolova for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u29	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Please don't let lies be uttered in the stands. [[Noise and lines.]] Yesterday there was an extraordinary meeting of the Energy Commission, in which we also listened to the Executive Director of Bulgargas and presented precise data on what the financial results are and they are not the ones Mr. Dobrev presented. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u30	Thank you. I missed this meeting of the Energy Commission, so the members of the Energy Commission will take the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u31	Mr. Chairman, some people felt affected and immediately got to explain themselves here by this tribune after my speech. If the minus isn't 10 million, I insist they get up and say what the minus is for the first quarter, and the second we'll talk about in another two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u32	Mr. Stankov, are you for procedure? The Energy Committee is 21 members, as far as I know. Okay, a lot of procedures are coming up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u33	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Indeed, Mr. Tabutov came out, but the person who speaks untruths is he and I ask you to interrupt colleagues in such situations, because, as you yourself have expressed, there is no way you can attend all the committees, but yesterday it became clear that it was in the state budget that the state would be placing a state guarantee because at the moment the company is facing bankruptcy because the 298 million is missing in its register because of the careless attitude of the management to the collection of its duties. In this regard, the state will now guarantee...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u34	Mr. Stankov, we're already out of procedure here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u35	...so that credits can be drawn. So please, at times like this, interrupt your colleagues because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u36	I'm this close.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u37	And I feel like you're close, the point is to tear that hair and start interrupting them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u38	Is that okay? Let's tear it up. Mrs. Trifonova is for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u39	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u40	And you're for procedure? Mrs. Nikolova, I will call you with this button when the time comes for speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u41	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is for you, in the manner of conduct, because of the yet another lie that you have allowed from your parliamentary group to speak here in terms of investment, how you tripled them, doubled them or I don't know what exactly. If you look at BNB data for 2020 ... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u42	Mrs. Trifonova, there is no procedure here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u43	...direct foreign investment is 3 billion. Yes, your representative from.. Continue the Change.........................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u44	You could have made a statement, Mrs. Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u45	...explain how these investments were doubled.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u46	I don't see why you're doing this in this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u47	For 2021, investments are 1.2 billion at 3 billion at GERB for 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u48	Thank you. It was important that it was within the procedure in the manner of conduct, to clarify this in fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u49	So, please, don't let lies from this tribune. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u50	Mr. Gazhev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, my procedure is not on the subject of energy or the pre-speakers. Since in the parliamentary control, Mr. Chairman, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior will come anyway, I ask you to ask them, so they will come to the National Assembly and we will not spare them this effort to present us and to familiarize the National Assembly with the curious case from yesterday with the plane that flew into the territory of Bulgaria, although it was with Air Polysling from an accompanying plane from the Romanian country, it was suddenly left without, landed in Vidin, flew through Tarnovo. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues say: "Maybe Lavrov is visiting?He flew all over Northern Bulgaria until he landed in Targovishte, meanwhile, according to the Ministry of Defense all the time under radar coverage, according to the Ministry of Interior outside...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u52	Mr. Gajev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u53	If they can come and get to know the National Assembly exactly what happened, what information they have, so that we are all aware of what happened yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will return the topic to our point of discussion, namely this is the ratification of an agreement, the ratification of the work of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in relation to the economic review of Bulgaria. In fact, we have had a very long-term cooperation with the Organization since the last term of management of GERB, and in this direction in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, we have made a project that was extremely important and I say it for colleagues from the ruling minority or majority. I no longer know how to say it in relation to the future regional policy of Bulgaria. With the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, we implemented together a project which reviewed Bulgaria's readiness for decentralisation and regionalization. In this direction, some extremely important aspects related to the administrative capacity of the regions were made, an analysis was carried out with regard to the financial parameters and technical readiness of the regions, as well as the municipalities for future decentralisation. I say these things for a reason, because very recently I saw that the Prime Minister opened the discussion on decentralisation again with the National Association of Municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria and in this direction there is already an experience that needs to be used and it is the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that can support this process, because it is aware of the whole move and movement that has been made with regard to the policies of Bulgaria related to regional development. So we, in support of this ratification, are actually moving forward with a trend in Bulgaria's policies related to international cooperation when we need support, including analytical activities and which can support us with international experience, which will lead to and introduce some good practices in the implementation of the various activities and policies in our country. Today Commissioner Ferreira is visiting Bulgaria and today a very important document for Bulgaria will be commented, this is the Partnership Agreement. In fact, thanks to cooperation with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, we have succeeded in achieving the effect enshrined in the Partnership Agreement, namely the implementation of integrated territorial investments that will contribute to a balanced development of our regions. So in this direction, what I can say is that not only is today's outcome of the meetings with Commissioner Ferreira will contribute to what funding we will receive from the European Commission for the period up to 2027 in terms of convergence with the other countries in the European Union, but also I would like to say that it was the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development that has had a very large contribution to shaping the partnership agreement and, of course, to having a direction in today's programmes in an investment process that is different from what we have done back in time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Are there any lines to Denitsa Nikolova? I won't. Any other speeches? Angel Georgiev for speech. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are talking, there are statements here that we will enter a club of the rich and almost by what we understand, Bulgaria will automatically become a prosperous state. However, we at the age of one insist on receiving a clear indication from you what are the pros and what are the minuses of one OECD membership? What economic development are we talking about? What economic development do you expect? Will there be such a violent economic development, or will there be such a development as we had after we entered NATO and saw that we cut up the military equipment for scrab and the army is in an extremely difficult state, or such a development that we saw after entering the European Union, where we closed nuclear blocks so that we could join? Is this the kind of development you expect, or are you really expecting some real development? In the same way as for the euro, you are working very hard, very hard to provide information about the pros and cons of the introduction of the euro. This is normal to work hard, hard, but this will happen soon, not in years, as is the saga with the euro................................................................... Get out here, mostly the weight is on the side of the government, and say: that's the pros, that's the minuses, in these directions we fall behind, that's what we're asked for. Otherwise, it is simply not serious to talk at all about the Club of the Rich, neither about economic development, nor about cooperation, all the more so that we see where your governance has led us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to Angel Georgiev? I won't. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u59	Mr President, honourable Members, this ratification is quite important. Unfortunately, there is a parliamentary group that does not know how and why it is important and it should be explained to it, but one of the most important things, although the organization itself gives the focus to an economy as a whole, is actually one of the main priorities that it has, is corruption and integrity. That this process is currently under way is a very important sign to Bulgaria. One of the negotiators asked where the investors were looking? Investors look where there is a competitive environment where there is justice, where there is no corruption, where there is no one who comes to ask them for part of their business or asks them for a calm fee. Investors look at countries that are members of the OECD because the OECD has standards. These standards, when covered by the countries that covered them, are actually a stamp, that these countries are suitable and that investments in them would be protected from any influence, whether corrupt or otherwise. So yes, this ratification is very important and is a very clear sign. I would call on the people who are speaking about Bulgaria's economic situation and how they have worked in this direction to humble themselves a little bit, because everyone needs to look and see why things have happened and things that have not happened, but the OECD sign is very positive and we are going in the right direction, so that the Change Group will support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Replices to Nastimir Ananiev? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, all we've heard again is more talk. It is simply not serious to expect that membership in the OECD will solve the problem of corruption in Bulgaria. If your government is incompetent and cannot solve the problem of corruption, it will not happen automatically from any membership of any organisation. So far, we've seen eight months of you talking about corruption, and you're stuck talking clearly. Any Bulgarian citizen can confirm that. What progress have you made? How many cases do you have? How many convicted persons do you have for corruption? Zero is zero, so it's just not serious to go out and say how the membership itself would solve our problems somewhere. If we don't solve them ourselves, there's no one else to do it for us, so these claims are absolutely groundless. Again, I ask you: either give us some specifics, or we better not fool ourselves and talk about how we enter an international organization and automatically become from the Club of the Rich, because this is just funny. We are the last country by standard in the European Union, to our great regret, so please very much. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u62	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a second line? Mr. Antonov, were you for a line? There's a second line from Borislav Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, you were right about corruption, but you forgot to add in your statement that the new OECD policy of at least a dozen years relates to better policies for a better life, that is, going not only to increase the country's gross domestic product, not only to economic prosperity, not only to guarantees for an economic development that is backed up with indicators, with analyses, with some of the best statistical models in the world that the best minds of the best universities that work in this organisation are actually capable of providing. In addition, we are going to a new economy, to a sustainable economy. "Better policies for a better life" is the OECD logo, whose, as I say, headquarters...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u64	Dispatch.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u65	...sitting in Paris. Sorry about the mistake, guys. It is very important that we maintain this policy. I do not think that by entering Eurasia or the ruble or other similar geopolitical orientations we will be able to achieve this prosperity, which I believe the entire Parliament without 13 maybe 240, we are aiming for. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u66	Is there a third line to Nastimir Ananiev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen replicating! Mr. Antonov, a better life, yes, that's right. This is one of the OECD's objectives, but let's answer the question, in fact, how do we get to this goal, what is the path. And if you think about what the road is like, you'll actually see that fighting corruption is fundamental in order to get to this better life, if we're talking about justice, whether we're talking about foreign investment, whether we're talking about job creation. In a municipality where the largest employer is the municipality and it gives work to everyone, can we actually talk that there can be a high standard and a better life if you can't attract investment if you can't attract factories if you can't attract production?! Mr. Georgiev, I do not see, unfortunately, your colleague Petrov, whom I respect, and as a lawyer you should consult with him a little bit, because we from "Keep the Change" are neither able to convict anyone nor can we investigate him. That's what the D.A. and the D.A.'s office do. We can talk about the prosecution a lot about what it does and what it doesn't do, and maybe a little more we can talk about what it doesn't do than what it does. I find it very interesting because colleagues from GERB here were asked once, twice how they will vote under the KKCONPI legislation. I am also very interested in how you will vote on the specific legislation that can solve the problem of combating corruption, because there will actually be seen what can be done and what cannot be done. And perhaps you also missed the statement from today, which Milen Mateev read and in which he very clearly stated that yesterday the bill was introduced, which will launch an independent process by the prosecution, which has its own thoughts whether to investigate someone or not to investigate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Karadaye, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr President, I would like to ask you to sometimes remind colleagues of the item on the agenda and the subject that is being addressed because, as we listen to the debate, we are under the impression that it is about membership in the OECD, and the subject is another: consideration of an economic review agreement. So let's get back to the topic of today's agenda, because OECD membership, as well as other colleagues have noted, will not happen during this government, because other colleagues have noted that the basic values of the OECD are the fight against corruption and the rule of law, and these lawbreakers and violations of the Constitution, which are in this government, cannot lead the country to OECD membership. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u70	Thank you for this procedure, Mr. Karadayi. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Colleagues from GERB-SDS said that we would support, naturally, the draft decision, but a brief review of what has happened so far. Colleagues from the "Change" stand in defence and support naturally, which is the right step, but let's not forget where it starts and why it comes to this ongoing review at all. Colleagues, there is a roadmap for Bulgaria's accession to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and it is accepted, agreed, set out during the administration of the cabinet. The review to be carried out in the period from December 2022 to 31 December 2023 has a value that is justified by the Organisation, the relevant letters at expert level have been exchanged and should take place, naturally analysing the progress of the country on the Report, which came out 2021. I hope that most of the Members in the Chamber have been acquainted with it. It is comprehensive precisely that a large part of the claims of We continue the Change About the poor state of Bulgaria's economy, about corruption in Bulgaria, about investments in Bulgaria do not correspond to what the report says. Therefore, colleagues, supporting this draft decision, this continuing report and the Road Map for Bulgaria's accession to the Club of the Rich, as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is talking about, is a right step and a move forward in the development of Bulgaria, but you cannot take credit for things. You can cut strips of sections of highways, bridges and road facilities that are built, procedures have been carried out during the last regular government of Borisov. This can be done, but do not take credit for the roadmap, which, naturally, is seen by any information, you are just becoming ridiculous and taking credit for it. I think it is appropriate to support the proposed draft decision and continue with the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line to Alexander Ivanov? Do you have a line, Mr. Antonov? You can't speak anymore. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u73	Colleagues, the Change Girl doesn't take credit. The OECD policy has been a long-term policy of Bulgaria since 2007, i.e. before GERB and will be after GERB, and the Change is just change and this is what the Bulgarian people know and see. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Second line from Alexandra Korcheva. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, we really don't take credit for anything. Cutting ribbons is not the image that we continue Changing establishes... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u76	Colleagues, quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u77	But the truth is that Bulgaria's accession to the OECD should be with continuity, which means that we all have to work together continuously for this, and that is what we have also reaffirmed. The fact is that the process of Bulgaria's accession to open the pre-negotiation process so that the actual negotiation process will begin after that, started on 25 January 2021 and confirmed that the fight against corruption is key. I'd be happy to have your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Third line again? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u79	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague and replicating. Mr. Antonov, I did not see or at least find any reproach for my speech in your line, but rather we think, I hope, equally in terms of Bulgaria's accession to the OECD. To colleague Korcheva, thank you for the line. You confirmed that on 25 January 2021 the agreement was really signed, it is going to the detailed review, the road to Bulgaria's accession to the OECD is continuing. And with regard to cutting the ribbons, I wish you, but I am not optimistic that in your government something positive will be launched and seen in infrastructure projects, seen in all structures of the economy and government, unfortunately, is a complete farce. The chaos that created your government is neither good for the economic development of Bulgaria, nor for raising the standard of Bulgarian citizens, nor for reducing corruption. We see some appointments of relatives, of friends. That's what your coalition partners say, I'm just reminding you of, whole families who run sectors. If you think this is some way to improve or fight corruption, it may be your opinion, we will see what the OECD and other organizations will say. If memory serves, Bulgaria has fallen with one place in the Corruption Ranking, and one year since you manage, so it is really nice to go in this direction, but to give a real account of what steps we should take and not only speak with thunderous promises, but really to do something. On the contrary, in many of the areas we are talking about, policy, appointments and so on, we see more and more fragile and bad examples of a very short period of time. Let's move on to the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u80	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, on the one hand, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, on the other hand, No 47-202-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 177 MPs: 168 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Sabrutev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the bill adopted in the first vote be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u82	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Sabrutev's proposal for consideration and at the second reading of the bill. Vote 168 MPs: 157 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the second vote. Come on in, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Economic Review Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part A single member. Ratification of the Agreement for the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part, concluded by Exchange of Letters signed on 14 October 2021 in Sofia and 28 December 2021 in Paris. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Law was passed by the 47th National Assembly of................................... 2022 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. I open the discussion on the name of the Law, article only, the name of the section "Concluding provision" and the only final provision. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the name of the Law, article only, the name of the section "Concluding provision" and the only final provision. Vote 169 MPs: 168, against 10, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, and the Law has been passed in a second vote. Point 9th of the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week has been adopted. Let's move on to point ten: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MANY CONVENTION FOR THE APPLICATION OF MEASURES RELATED TO THE PAINTS FOR THE TRANSVENTATION OF THE CONVERSATION OF THE CONVERSION AND THE TRANSFER OF PROCEEDINGS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for a security clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Council of Ministers to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy and in the Ministry of Finance; Mrs. Desislava Kaludova, Director of the Directorate of Finance, Agreements for Avoiding Double Taxation in the NRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Mr. Simeonov, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill of ratification The multilateral convention on the application of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the contraction of the tax base and the transfer of profits, No 47-202-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2022. At a meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Ivaylo Yaydzhiev The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The multilateral convention on the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the contraction of the tax base and the transfer of profits (the Convention) was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 7 June 2017 at the first official ceremony of accession of States and jurisdictions to the Convention held in Paris, France. Its ratification is one of the steps in preparing for the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. With the ratification and entry into force of the Convention with regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, our country will fulfil its commitment to its membership in the OECD Communicating Framework for the creation of real prerequisites for a more effective fight against cross-border tax evasion through the use of various forms of aggressive tax planning. The Republic of Bulgaria will also be able to bring the covered tax agreements into line with the minimum standards of the OECD General Framework for the Implementation of Measures against the Torque of the Tax Base and the Transfer of Profits. The Convention is, in essence, a multilateral international treaty whose main objective is the simultaneous amendment of more than 2800 tax agreements concluded between jurisdictions around the world. States and jurisdictions may choose which of their existing double taxation arrangements to be amended by the Convention, indicating them on a list. The Convention replaces the process of bilateral re-negotiation of existing agreements between jurisdictions and allows by accession to it to change, replace or add provisions to them. This significantly accelerates and facilitates the effective implementation of the BEPS Plan between all States and jurisdictions which accede to the Convention. The main objective of the measures is to minimize the possibility of abuse of tax agreements and to improve the dispute resolution procedure. The provisions of the Convention adopted by the Republic of Bulgaria are aimed precisely in this direction at addressing the unlawful use of tax benefits, while updating the provision on the mutual agreement procedure in accordance with the minimum standard laid down in the measure 14.Creating a more effective dispute resolution mechanism by the BEPS Plan, which ensures the taxpayers correct application of the benefits provided for in the tax agreements and protection against double taxation. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Convention with Reserves and Notifications according to the list, drawn up according to a model by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 15 votes for the debate, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Draft for the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Agreements to prevent the tax base from shrinking and the transfer of profits, No 47-202-02-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I am putting to the first vote a Draft Law on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Agreements to Prevent Tax Base shrinking and Transfer of Profits, No 47-202-02-13, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 105 MPs: 98, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the bill adopted in the first vote ratifying the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Agreements to prevent the shrinking of the tax base and the transfer of profits, No 47-202-02-13, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2022, should also be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Simeonov's procedural proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 99 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the multilateral Convention implementing measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the contraction of the tax base and the transfer of profits A single member. Ratifying the Multi-lateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Agreements to Prevent Tax Base shrinking and Transfer of Profits, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 7 June 2017 in Paris, with reservations and notifications according to a list drawn up according to a model of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as follows: ....................................... Status of reserve list and notifications when depositing the instrument of ratification This document contains the list of reservations and notifications made by the Republic of Bulgaria when depositing the instrument of ratification under art. 28, para. Art. 5 and art. 29, para. 1 of the Convention. Article 2? Interpretation of terms The Parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the Convention. In accordance with art. 2, para. 1 point (a) of the Convention, point II of the Convention, the Republic of Bulgaria wishes the following arrangements to be covered by the Convention: (Next table.) Article 3 "Transparent entities' Reserve In accordance with art. 3, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply the entire art. 3 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Article 4............................................................................................................. Reserve In accordance with art. 4, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply the whole of Art. 3. 4 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Article 5 - Application of double taxation methods Notification of selection of optional provisions In accordance with art. 5, para. 10 of the Convention with this Republic of Bulgaria shall elect in accordance with art. 5, para. 1 apply Option C to this Article. Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. 5, para. 10, point (c) of the Convention, the Republic of Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. 5, para. 7. The number of the Member and the subparagraph of each such provision is given below. (Next table) Article 6 - Purpose of the tax settlement covered Reserve In accordance with art. 6, para. 4 of the Convention, the Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply art. 6, para. 1 in respect of their covered tax arrangements which already contain a text in the preamble describing the intention of the contracting courts to avoid double taxation without creating opportunities for non-discrimination or reduction of taxation, whether or not that text is limited to cases of evasion or circumvention of taxation (including through agreements aimed at the misuse of the tax agreements covered and aimed at obtaining the relief provided for in those agreements, for indirect benefit of third-country nationals) or is applied more widely. The following arrangements shall contain a text in the preamble which falls within the scope of this reservation. (Next table.) Notification of an existing text in the preamble to the Agreements included In accordance with art. 6, para. 5 of the Convention Bulgaria considers that the following agreements are not within the scope of the reservation under art. 6, para. 4 and contain text in the preamble described in art. 6, para. 2. The text of the relevant paragraph of the preamble is set out below. (Next table.) Article 7???????.???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. 7, para. The Republic of Bulgaria considers that the following agreements do not fall within the scope of the reservation under Article 17 (a) of the Convention. 7, para. 15 point (b) and contain the provision described in art. 7, para. 2. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) Article 8 "Transition transactions for dividends' Reserve In accordance with art. 8, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply the whole of Art. 3. 8 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Article 9 "Receipts from the transfer of shares or shares or participations in entities that acquire their value mainly from immovable property Notification of selection of optional provisions In accordance with art. 9, para. 8 of the Convention by this Republic of Bulgaria chooses to apply art. 9, para. 4. Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. 9, para. 7 of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. 9, para. 1. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) Article 10 - Rule against abuse in relation to places of business located in third jurisdictions. Reserve In accordance with art. 10, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply the entire art. 10 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Article 11 - Application of tax agreements to limit the right of a party to tax its local persons. Reserve In accordance with art. 11, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply the whole of Art. 3. 11 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Article 12 "Instructional avoidance of the status of the place of business by means of missionary agreements and similar strategies Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. 12, para. 5 of the Convention Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. 12, para. 3 letter................................................................................. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) In accordance with art. 12, para. 6 of the Convention Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. 12, para. 3 (b). The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) Article 13 "Instrumental avoidance of the status of the place of business by excluding certain activities Reserve In accordance with art. 13, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply Article 6 (c) of the Convention. 13, para. 4 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Notification of selection of optional provisions In accordance with art. 13, para. 7 of the Convention with the present Republic of Bulgaria chooses to apply Option A to art. 13, para. 1. Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. 13, para. 7 of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. 13, para. 5 letter.............................................................................. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) Article 14 "Separation of contracts' Reserve In accordance with art. 14, para. The Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply the whole of Art. 3. 14 as regards their tax arrangements covered. Article 16 "Procession for mutual agreement' Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 6 point (a) of the Convention Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) In accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 6 point (b) (i) of the Convention, point I of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain a provision providing that a case described in the first sentence of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 must be presented within a certain period which is shorter than 3 years from the first notification of the action which has led to the taxation which is not in line with the tax convention covered. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) In accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 6 point (b) of the Convention, point II of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain a provision providing that a case referred to in the first sentence of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 must be presented within a certain period, which is at least 3 years from the first notification of the action which has led to taxation which is not in accordance with the covered tax settlement. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below in the table. Notification of arrangements included which do not contain existing provisions In accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 6 point (c) of the Convention, point II of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements do not contain the provision described in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 point (b) (II) (Next table.) In accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 6 point (d) of the Convention, point I of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements do not contain the provision described in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Point 4 (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) In accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 6 point (d) of the Convention, point II of the Convention, Bulgaria considers that the following agreements do not contain the provision described in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Point 4 (c) of point II. (Next table.) Article 17 "Contributing corrections' Notification of existing provisions in the included agreements In accordance with art. 17, para. 4 of the Convention Bulgaria considers that the following agreements contain the provision described in art. 17, para. 2. The number of the article and the paragraph of each such provision are set out below. (Next table.) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Notification of selection of optional provisions In accordance with art. 35, para. 3 of the Convention only for the purposes of its application of art. 35, para. Point 1 (b) (i) and (ii) of Article 4 (1) (b) (ii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union Reserve In accordance with art. 35, para. 6 of the Convention, the Republic of Bulgaria reserves the right not to apply art. 35, para. 4 in respect of their tax liabilities covered.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Simeonov. I open a discussion on the name of the bill and article only, as presented by Mr. Simeonov. Is there anyone who wants to speak? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the Bill and the article alone, as presented by Mr. Simeonov. We vote 'em enbloc. Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. With this, the bill was adopted in a second vote. We have also exhausted the tenth point of the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week. Let's move on to point eleven: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE EUROPEAN SOCIAL PARTY (REVISED). A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. There are also reports from the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Citizens, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Foreign Policy. That's it. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Lazar Lazarov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u94	I put to the vote Radoslav Vassilev's procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, although it may not be necessary, but I would nevertheless suggest that we vote on extending plenary working time until this point is exhausted and that parliamentary control should begin immediately after the completion of work on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u96	All right, Mr. Vigenin, let's move on to parliamentary control after we finish this. 11 to maintain parliamentary control for three hours, so that the meeting will be extended accordingly to have parliamentary control for three hours, if necessary, of course. We have visitors, we can welcome them to the Chamber! [[Applause.]] Voting mode. They voted 101 MPs: 77, against 18, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, with the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its meeting, held on 1 June 2022, examined and discussed a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16. The meeting was attended by Ivan Krastev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Elitsa Slavcheva, Head of the Department of International and Bilateral Cooperation. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krastev. The revised European Social Charter was ratified in 2000, with an integral part of the law stating the commitment of the Republic of Bulgaria to certain members of the Charter. In 2007 the law further ratified art. 2, para. 3 part II of the European Social Charter. According to the importer, the proposed draft law on further ratification of provisions can be seen as a serious step in the introduction of international social labour standards in the following areas: the right to professional guidance and training, the right to social security and the right to legitimate migrant workers and their families to protection and assistance. A subsequent analysis of Bulgarian legislation and practice show that a number of provisions are compatible and can be ratified. The specific new obligations which may be undertaken and which our State may be bound to are in respect of the following rights: - Right to professional training............................................................................................... 9; - Right to vocational training..................................................................................... 10; - Right to social security................................................................................ 12; - Right of working migrants and their families to protection and assistance........................................................................................... 19. The possibility for Bulgaria to adopt all these provisions has also been confirmed in the fourth Report of the European Committee on Social Rights on the provisions of the European Social Charter (revised) adopted by Bulgaria in May 2021 following an analysis of the applicable national legislation. The bill does not require the preparation of an Impact Assessment because it is a Law amending the Law on ratification. In order not to come to the adoption of a third Law on ratification of the same international treaty, for greater legal certainty, this law also incorporated the provision adopted in 2007 of art. 2, para. 3, Part II, and the respective Second Law of ratification is repealed by § 2 of the Bill. The bill is reviewed in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and is consensus. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 16 votes, 1 vote, abstention, and no objection, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. We move on to the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Here you go, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its regular meeting on 2 June 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens examined the Draft Law amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47 202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At the meeting were invited and attended: Elitsa Slavcheva Borisova, Head of the Department of International and Bilateral Cooperation and Cooperation at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Yordanka Parparova, Senior Diplomatic Officer in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Ms. Elitsa Slavcheva-Borisova. The revised European Social Charter is an international treaty adopted by the Council of Europe in 1996. It was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria in 1998 in Strasbourg. The Charter was ratified by Bulgaria by a law adopted by the 38th National Assembly in 2000 and has been in force since the same year. Bulgaria ratified this multilateral international treaty, with seven years later our country joined only one additional provision concerning the right to paid annual leave of employees. With this proposal, our country adopts nine new provisions, which are in the following areas: right to professional guidance; right to vocational training; right to social security; right to legally working migrants and their families, protection and assistance. These are the following Articles and paragraphs of the European Social Charter: art. Article 9; 10, para. 2, para. 3, para. Article 4; 12, para. 2 and para. Article 4; 19th para. 5 and para. 9. The selection of these provisions is due to a comparative legal analysis, which was made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the participation of other competent departments, including social partners. A Report of the European Social Rights Committee has been used as a basis for this analysis. Importers believe that the adoption of new provisions of the revised social charter, on the one hand, will guarantee relevant social rights, such as our country's international legal commitment, and will also contribute to increasing our credibility within the Council of Europe. The opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was expressed by Mrs. Yordanka Parparova. In the course of the conciliation procedure, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs submitted some considerations concerning the provisions concerning the rights of the families of migrants. The meaning of these objections is not the subject of the provisions themselves, but the possibility of legal collies when joining them. They concern rights that migrants' families would get. In our internal constitutional law, marriage is a legal union between multiple partners. One or more hypotheses may exist and they must be foreseen when it comes to joining an international treaty and the arrival of migrants who are single-sex families. In modern public relations and the fact that marriage is legalized between such individuals in other countries is not excluded at all. The President of the Commission, Professor Andrey Chorbanov, asked questions about the fact that different countries ratify selective provisions from the relevant articles in these documents and whether it is a practice in Europe in any form to exert pressure on countries for the non-compliance of certain provisions. During the discussion by the President of the Commission, a question was raised regarding private cases of citizens falling into cases that reach the National Assembly. They are exceptions and are not constitutional, for example, recognition of marriage in the same sex, and the extent to which this can be a case of the Ministry or a case of the legislator. The representative of the importers argued that in the case of the control mechanism of the European Social Charter, no individual right of appeal of individual citizens was provided for. The mechanism is a control mechanism for collective complaints, which means that certain non-governmental organisations are included in an explicit list of the Council of Europe, are entitled to lodge complaints against a country which is a party to the Social Charter, claiming that it does not apply adequate or satisfactory provisions. It is not permissible for a individual citizen to lodge such a complaint and to request any follow-up from the State, even more so when it has not joined that provision. Following the debates held, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens also held a vote with 10 votes for the European Social Charter (revised), unanimously, without the opposites and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47 202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. The report of the Committee on Education and Science follows. Mrs. Anastasova, come in. I've got the report, I'll give it to you, I'll even offer you a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its regular meeting on 8 June 2022, the Committee on Education and Science examined a Draft Law amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. The meeting of the Commission was attended by: Ms Elitsa Slavcheva-Borissova, Head of the Department of International and Bilateral Cooperation, Directorate of European Affairs and International Cooperation and Ms Krasimira Brosig, Secretary General of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training, as well as representatives of trade union and non-governmental organizations. The reasons for the bill were presented by Ms. Elitsa Slavcheva-Borisova. As a result of the discussion and voting, the Committee on Education and Science with 11 votes for the European Social Charter (revised) No 47 202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment to the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47 202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Here you go, Mrs. Korcheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At a meeting held on 25 May 2022, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised). The reasons for the bill were presented by Alexander Evtimov On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes in favour, without the votes of abstention and 1 vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment to the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Korcheva. And the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation remained. I accidentally rearranged the reports. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its meeting on 8 June 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised). The bill was presented by Ivan Krastev "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The revised European Social Charter was an international treaty adopted by the Council of Europe in 1996 and was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 21 September 1998 in Strasbourg. The Charter was ratified by Bulgaria by a law adopted by the Thirty-eightth National Assembly on 29 March 2000, and was in force on 1 August of the same year. The Charter allows for the selective adoption of provisions guaranteeing basic social and economic rights with which the Parties may and undertake to comply. Bulgaria is currently bound by 62 of its 98 provisions. The proposal for further ratification of provisions is related to the introduction of new international social and labour standards in the following areas: right to vocational training. 9, Right to vocational training.................................................................................................. 10, Right of Social Security.................................................................................... 12, and the right of legally working migrants and their families to protection and assistance............................................................................................. 19. The possibility for Bulgaria to adopt all these provisions has been confirmed in the fourth Report of the European Committee on Social Rights on the provisions of the European Social Charter (revised) adopted by Bulgaria in May 2021 following an analysis of the applicable national legislation. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Alexandra Korcheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This bill presents to the attention of the Chamber an important addition to the international agreements of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the social sphere. The revised European Social Charter is an international treaty adopted by the Council of Europe in 1996. The Republic of Bulgaria signed it in 1998 and ratified it in 2000. As you know, these provisions are binding on us. The European Social Charter is also known as the Social Constitution of Europe and represents a significant part of the architecture of the European social system. It provides support and is the basis for a wide range of human rights related to employment, accommodation, health, education, social protection and so on. The total number of provisions of this international treaty is 98 and the States, part of the Charter, are entitled not to be part of those provisions. Of over 40 Member States of the Council of Europe who signed the Revised Charter, only three of them have adopted fewer provisions than Bulgaria, which is currently part of 62 regulations. Less of us have only accepted Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Azerbaijan. The proposal we are looking at today for this further ratification of nine provisions under the Social Charter increases the total number of our provisions to 71. This helps us actually to advance in terms of deepening our country's integration into the European system of norms guaranteeing social and economic human rights. For this reason, we are continuing to support this bill and express our willingness to continue the work on extending the set of citizens' economic and social rights not only in order to line up with the other Member States of the European Union, in the volume of regulations adopted under the European Social Charter, but also because we believe that it is of great importance that Bulgaria continue to improve its institutional system for the benefit of its citizens, for the benefit of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Are there any lines for Alexandra Korcheva? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter (revised), No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 95 MPs: 91 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure by Radoslav Vassilev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill adopted in the first vote amending the Law on ratification of the European Social Charter, No 47-202-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022, be adopted at a second vote in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 98 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE amending the Law on ratification European Social Charter (revised) (BW, No. 30 of 2000) § 1. Point 2 of the declaration to Article is amended as follows: "2." It binds to art. Art. 1, art. 2, para. Article 7 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 3, Art. 4, para. Article 5 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 5, art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 7, Art. Art. 8, Art. Art. 9, Art. 10, para. 2, para. 3 (a) and 3 (b) Art. 4, Art. Art. 11, art. Art. 12, Art. 13, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 14, Final provision § 2. The law on ratification of art. 2, para. 3 part II of the European Social Charter (revised) (No. 3) 12 from 2007) canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Draft Law, § 1, the name of the section of the Final provision and the only final provision as presented by Mr. Vassilev. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the name of the Draft Law, § 1, the name of the division and the only final provision enblock. They voted 105 MPs: 99 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL Before we go to oral answers to questions and questions, I will read to you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 3 to 9 June 2022: - from Minister Aleksandar Nikolov to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Assen Vassilev: a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev, to two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev, to two questions from the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Manoil Manev; - from Minister Atanas Atanasov to two questions from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva and to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - from Minister Bozidar Bojanov to a question from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov; - by Minister Boyko Rashkov to a question from the MP Yordan Terziyski and a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov on a question from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - from Minister Georgi Gokov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadjov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Ganchev and a question from the National Representative Stoil Stoilov; - by Minister Daniel Lorer to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - from Minister Dragomir Zakov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - by Minister Ivan Ivanov: a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev, Ivaylo Shotev, Tsvetelina Zarkin, Yuri Kozlov and Petar Kulenski; a question from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev; a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - from Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova to a question from the MPs Ivo Ruschev and Nikolay Drenchev, and to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - from Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - by Minister Nikolay Denkov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev, to a question from the National Representative Momchil Nenov and to a question from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov; - by Minister Radostin Vassilev to a question from the National Representative Inna Ivanova and a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - by Minister Hristo Prodanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Ganev and Martin Dimitrov, and to a question from the MP Stoyan Mihalev. Parliamentary control starts with questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov, who will answer a question from the MP Daniel Petrov about the landfill for infected fertilizer beds in the village of Yavorets. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! About the landfill for contaminated fertilizer beds in the village of Yavorets. I received a signal that in the land of the village of Yavorets, Gabrovo District, a landfill with infected fertilizer beds was formed. According to the signal, a cake from birds infected with avian influenza birds from nearby poultry farms is being transported and stored in old ensile pits near the village. In this regard, I ask you the following question: what checks have been taken by both your ministry's institutions and the Ministry you are leading on the investigation and disposal of the possible outbreak of avian influenza, and what measures will you take to ban subsequent such uncoordinated activities? Please give me an oral answer to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u114	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Sandov, to answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u115	Dear Mr. Atanasov, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mr. Zakov! Dear Mr. Petrov, the Ministry of Environment and Water controls compliance with environmental legislation on the territory of the country through its regional divisions. The fertilizer waste is a by-products animal product. According to the Animal Health Act, the disposal of animal by-products and products derived from them is part of the animal health activity. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is responsible for animal treatment in Bulgaria. In this regard, unfortunately, I must tell you that your question is not for me, but for another colleague in the government, and I hope that the claim of your political group, expressed by your President, will hardly govern this country, will go through first to learn who is responsible for what in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u116	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In that case, I would like to draw your attention to a very similar problem, which is only meters away from the depot, in this issue. I hope it concerns your ministry. It dates back to the time before you took office as a minister, but it is still within the scope of the institutions that are subject to your ministry. It consists of the following: an enterprising businessman buys old halls from a former foundry, including a huge plateau in the village of Yavorets, and there begins activity on sorting and washing plastic waste or so-called imported trash. The waste is an old used oil bottles and antifreeze bottles. They're being washed. The activity consists in sorting, grinding and washing waste. As you can guess, the village does not have a treatment plant and the water, the waste water, goes to the Lopusnitsa River, the water on which residents in the village use to water their gardens. I therefore appeal to you at least on this subject to pay attention, because it will give at least a little peace to the villagers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u118	Thank you. Mr. Sandov, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u119	Dear Mr. Atanasov, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mr. Zakov! Dear Mr. Petrov, I will answer this question, of course, not within the framework of parliamentary control, as it has not been asked in advance and I have not prepared my answer, but as far as waste management is concerned, it is within the competence of our regional institutions, our Environment Executive Agency. If it concerns enterprises with a certain volume, a complex permit will be necessary, if it is to pass an environmental assessment, it will be the Regional Environmental Inspection in Veliko Tarnovo. If you wish, you can ask a written question. If you just give me the name of the enterprise, I can check it out, of course, without the formal procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Sandov, for the back. We move on to a request from Hristo Gajev regarding the implementation of the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces until 2032 to the Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] That's how it's noted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u121	Yes, yes, Mr. Chairman. Just an hour and a half ago, because you didn't lead the meeting, and President Minchev, I asked, when the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior came, to inform about the incident yesterday with the flying little plane so that the National Assembly could be informed of it. I'm asking if there will be such information, or should I move on to the question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u122	I have no idea. Ministers can take the floor at any time, of course, but the Minister of Interior is gone. When he gets here, we'll ask him if he's ready to answer. I don't know, Mr. Zakov said he wasn't informed. If you want to take the floor on the subject, you can always do this, of course. However, I think it is wiser to develop your question, as is the order, and the other is the Minister's right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u123	Then the minister can decide whether to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u124	His right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u125	...informed the National Assembly. My question. A little bit of history. At the end of February last year, the National Assembly adopted an Armed Forces Development Programme, after which an Armed Forces Investment Plan was to be adopted, how they will develop over the next 10 years, what arms and equipment will be purchased. The plan itself states that the main priorities needed by the Bulgarian Army are 188 priority directions, which would cost 38 billion. GERB's then government at the end of its term of office decided that the financial opportunities of the state were to finance projects of about 8 billion. BGN, or 38 priority projects. Then the Council of Ministers decided not to accept this programme, as it was not right in the last days of a government to predict, with long-term and long-term spending, the policy of subsequent governments and this was left at the table of the Minister of Defence. He, in turn, began to analyse the whole process and the projects in it, which continued during his entire term as minister of service. After the government of Kiril Petkov came, an analysis of the analysis began and it is not yet clear whether there is such an investment plan-programme. I would just like to remind you that in February, a National Security Advisory Council took place for the President, where one of the decisions, point 2 of which I quote, is: the executive power to develop prioritized, resource-backed and consistent trends in the development of modern technologies Investment Plan-programme by 2032, in line with the objectives and plans for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2032 and, of course, to see whether there is an opportunity to increase the defence budget over the plan to reach up to 2% in 2024. This is not going to happen from the budget update. The hundred days, Mr. Minister, your pretty much expired, but in the end, considering that your team has actually been in the Ministry of Defence since May last year, because the deputy ministers who were in the service were one until recently part of your team, the other continues to be part of your team, so there is a continuity, so to speak, between the caretaker government and you, so the work shouldn't have stopped. I hope, however, that there will be such a plan, because with the analysis of the budget that has been sent to us, the budget update, it is evident that the government has refused, for example, to implement by the end of the year the Project for a new infantry fighting machine, as well as to provide additional funds, as they are under the decision of the Advisory Council, for the modernisation of the army. And as my time is running out, Mr President, the main question is: has there already been prepared, approved and, of course, financially provided Investment Plan-Programme, when will it be submitted and adopted by the Council of Ministers accordingly, what are its financial parameters and underlying projects and when is it expected to begin its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Minister, please, you have five minutes to develop the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gajev, regarding the implementation of the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2026 and the corresponding reference to the Investment Plan-Program for the Ministry of Defence until 2032 at the moment the situation is as follows: The Investment Plan-Program for the Ministry of Defence until 2032 has been drawn up according to the order and time limits provided in the documents regulating the strategic defence review carried out as part of the strategic review of the National Security Protection System in 2019 The plan is the third of the related long-term strategic documents as a result of this review, each of which stems from the previous one, i.e. after the Defence Power Development Programme of the Armed Forces, or the so-called...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The scope of the Investment Plan-Programme includes projects for acquisition, development and maintenance of defence capabilities of the armed forces, referred to precisely in................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These projects have all been further reviewed, analysed and assessed for complexity in terms of their implementation, time implementation and compliance with the degree of necessity in relation to the defined missions and tasks and, of course, available funds, i.e. their estimated framework. In accordance with the provisions of the current legal basis, the draft investment plan-programme has been submitted for consideration by the Defence Council. This happened on 27 April 2021. As a result of the discussion in the Defence Council, it is decided, under the leadership of the Chief of Defence and the Permanent Secretary of Defence, that the project be further detailed by taking into account the current financial framework necessary for its implementation. At present, the draft Investment Plan programme has been refined in terms of priorities and the estimated financial framework, and an organisation at the Ministry of Defence level has been established to prepare for the introduction to the National Assembly, of course, before that, and to the Council of Ministers. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that the dynamics of the security environment and changes in the economic performance of countries require that the Ministry of Defence Investment Plan is an open and live document subject to continuous updating, detailing and supplementing, which is a basic prerequisite for its timely implementation. I would just like to address the statement that we have given up the fighting machine to implement the project this year. That's not true. The project can be launched, a contract can even be signed this year. What we do not foresee, and that is the point of the update that we offer is that we do not foresee payment this year, which is different from signing a contract or starting the project. The idea was to make this update much better allocation of resources, so that what is relevant by the end of this year, to be repaid, to be provided. Otherwise, the money will be lost to the Ministry of Defense. So this is more about an optimization of the resource by the end of the year, but this does not mean that we have given up any of the priority projects at the moment, including radar and all other priority projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gajev, since this is about asking, you are entitled to two additional questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Secretary, I'll start backwards. Whether you gave up or didn't give up the War Machine Project, I quoted the reasons for the budget adopted by the Council of Ministers. It explicitly states that the project will not be implemented until the end of the year. This has adopted the Council of Ministers, so it says in the motives, that is, obviously, it will not be realized in this year, since the Council of Ministers has adopted it so, which is a problem. I hope, however, that the work on the project itself will not be stopped and that there will be some readiness, then there will be some development on it in the autumn. As you pointed out in your reply, the dates you mentioned all end by 27 April 2021, i.e. at the end of the previous regular government. From there on out, a hole. You said it yourself. In general, financial frameworks were prioritized and re-evaluated at the time. And the main question that I have, additionally, is there already a coherent financial framework for this initiative programme by the Ministry of Finance? That was April last year. Now the question is whether the current regular government has agreed a new financial framework so that the implementation of this project can begin. By the way, he does not need to enter the National Assembly because this act is from an act of the Council of Ministers, which makes it possible to change at any time because it does not have to enter the National Assembly for an explicit decision. So from this point on, the responsibility for its adoption is entirely for the Council of Ministers. If there is a ready project, when again I ask, when is it expected to be submitted to the Council of Ministers, how many projects does it include and what is its financial framework? I'm repeating the same questions I asked just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Gadzhev, I made it very clear that the decision of the Defence Council in April 27 April 2021 is as follows: Under the leadership of the Chief of Defence and the Permanent Secretary of Defence, the project should be further detailed by taking into account the current financial framework needed for its implementation, i.e. there are further actions to be carried out. We need to be clear that the financial framework of April last year is absolutely not applicable to today, and separately, if this project was ready for the Council of Ministers by April 2021, why has it not been submitted, why has it been waited? We're in a new situation right now to go over everything again. Remember, after all, the war in Ukraine also implies detailing some of the projects, i.e. abilities. The project is not just buying some equipment, so there are many things. With regard to the machine, I will stress again, the machine is working on the fighting machine, this is a priority project. I had just two options: to move on the project, which has already once crashed, literally in a straight text, or to make a project work. I chose the second option. Yes, with some delay, but the goal is for this project to really work the right way, that is, to take all the steps without a problem and to be realized eventually. This takes time, as a basic review is being made of all the characteristics of potential machines so that we choose the right path. From now on, I will stress again, the project I hope and this is my goal to start by the end of this year the payment we do not foresee, that is the point that it will not be realized, that is, there will be no payment.. This is behind the word, but it will move for sure. Of course, it depends on what political situation we are in and it is extremely important that a parliament is needed to ratify these treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gazhev, you have an opportunity to treat me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u132	Dear Minister, I'm sorry, but you never answered my questions. I asked a few simple questions: on April 27 it was decided that the Chief of Defense and the Permanent Secretary should analyse and refine. By the way, the last two years of 2109 since the review began, they are the ones doing it, that is, they were completely in class until then what happens, it has been a decision to detail if they have anything, but has this process been completed? Because you didn't say anything from 27 April 2021 to 9 June 2022, did this process end or continue to detail? You said yes, the financial framework has changed. Yeah, inflation ate the money for modernization because the government missed the processes, last summer, when the energy carriers started growing and no one took action. Yeah, and now there's a finance minister, and there's a government that has to do this thing to update the financial framework. Is it updated? You didn't say, we don't know if there's money for this modernization or not? And also, nicely, it continues to work, to analyse until now what will happen, what projects and so on, what will enter into, but without a financial framework, without the clear commitment by the government that it will financially be provided, and as February, by the way, the government has made a commitment and all parties have united on this decision that this should happen at the maximum speed....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm sorry, but this is obviously the emerging truth because, for example, the tricoordinate radar project that you mentioned was ready since August last year, as you know. Your predecessor declared it to the National Assembly and then he expected a financial framework from the Ministry of Finance, and kept waiting for it. So, dear Minister, we will not implement modernization or any projects in the army without the government's commitment, which at this time there is no and obviously will not be, as the draft budget which has been submitted shows it. So, I'm sorry, but until you show the document that there really is something to be done, really nothing is done and the army has a zero year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u133	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Yes, Mr. Minister, you have the right to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I will only take to the last part of your line, it is the zero year of the army. She's not zero.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u135	Mr. Minister, we've run out of questions. With the attitude I thought you wanted to take the floor on another matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u136	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u137	No, you can't. Thank you. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Transport Nikolai Subev. A question by Alexander Nestorov about the property owned by the Holding Group of Bulgarian State Railways. Here you are, Mr. Nestorov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Minister, the water tower in the town of Pernik is owned by the Holding Company of Bulgaria State Railways. The tower is in an extremely deteriorated technical condition and it is not observed to be used or to perform repair activities on it. Seen by public information, the Municipal Council of the town of Pernik has repeatedly required the BDZ and the Minister of Transport and Communications to take measures to renovate or reconstruct the facility in order to be safe for the health and life of the citizens and fit for exploitation, or if you cannot be a good owner, to transfer ownership so that it can be maintained by the municipality. In this regard, my question to you is: are funds provided in the budget for reconstruction of the water tower in the town of Pernik and its return to operation by the BDZ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u139	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u140	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nestorov, the water tower in the town of Pernik is registered in the accounting registers of BDZ In view of the absence of such, the tower is unusable and is not intended to be put into service. The Company did not foresee funds in the budget for reconstruction of the water tower, but it was provided for its restraint and the protection of the health and life of citizens by removing the compromised areas. In addition, I would like to inform you that there will be a competition for the future of the water tower, where the concepts and visions presented by the participants in the competition, related to it, will be evaluated by representatives of the BDZ Travel Service, Pernik Municipality and the National Art Academy. A cash prize is provided for the participant whose project will win the contest. In this way, we rely on a wide public response to attract, willing to finance the realization of the winning project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Nestorov, two minutes for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u142	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I find it extremely strange to make a competition, since there is no provision in the budget for the implementation of the activities that this competition may produce. I also think it is appropriate to inform you that thousands of citizens of Pernik municipality have signed a petition for the tower. In fact, if BDZ, respectively the Ministry of Transport and Communications cannot be a good owner, it is not a bad idea that you can prepare a decree of the Council of Ministers and transfer it to the municipality, because at the moment this same water tower is a monument symbol of the destruction of BDZ, which is also a fact for which, perhaps, the current government has a small contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. We can talk about BDZ for a long time. You have the right to an asshole, dear Minister. You're not interested. Thank you. The next question is from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov, Krum Zarkov and Ivan Petkov about the free parking of electric cars. You're welcome to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, some municipalities use free parking of electric cars in the paid areas as a measure to stimulate this type of vehicle. This is a good measure, but its effectiveness is limited due to different regimes and different municipalities. In this sense, and in the context of the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria 2021, the question to you is: do you also provide, if yes, what measures for generalising the free parking of electric cars throughout the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u145	And thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u146	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, Dear Mr. Zarkov, Dear Mr. Petkov, in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation, public parking places are owned by municipalities, such as the owner or administration managing the road, can determine areas, roads or parts of roads for areas for paid and free parking at certain hours of the day. A number of large municipalities such as Sofia, Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Dobrich, Pleven, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora and others have introduced various mechanisms and opportunities for free parking of electric vehicles. In this context, I would like to point out that the issue of providing the necessary number of parking spaces, as well as their paid or free parking when using electric cars is within the competence of the local authorities concerned, and in the case of parking in extra-urban areas, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As the Ministry of Transport and Communications we express our willingness to assist in this matter, of course, if this is sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. We really believe that cooperation will be needed and a single strategy will be needed because, on the one hand, the presumption of municipalities is to decide whether to introduce and where free parking areas for electric cars, on the other hand, the systems are not in any way integrated and there is no way to check each other. Let us also recall that the European Union has drawn closer to forcing car manufacturers to move on only to a new type of drives, including electrical drives since 2035, so that we do not have much time to prepare for this and we need to act from now on so that we have a really working strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u149	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You have no desire. The next question to the Minister of Transport is from Mladen Shishkov about the widespread hail on 31 May 2022, on the territory of Plovdiv district. Here you are, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, a storm broke out in the region of Plovdiv on 31 May 2022, followed by extremely dangerous and heavy hail. The most seriously affected were the agricultural land in Sadovo municipality. Thousands of acres of agricultural produce were destroyed. On the territory of Plovdiv an anti-city protection system has been built and there has obviously been a problem with the adequacy and reactions of the institutions for the second time in the last year. And although nothing old has been forgotten, it turns out that nothing new has been learned. Less than a year ago again in the territory of Plovdiv, inadequate actions of the institutions led to losses of agricultural production for millions. Dozens of owners lost their livelihood, some of them failed to recover. Now history repeats itself in exactly the same scenario. What else needs to happen to change the reaction of the institutions? Perhaps the entire agricultural sector should go bankrupt to realize that it cannot go on like this?! In view of the above, I am asking you a question, hoping for an accurate and correct answer: who and on what grounds has banned the processing of hail clouds because of flying planes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u151	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u152	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Shishkov, in the performance of the functions related to the work of the polygons for fighting hails, procedures are applied by Instruction No 4, issued on 16 July 2010, for anti-city protection in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is updated at the beginning of this year. In the present case, it is not about a flight flying, but about a planned flight, as is the requirement of the Ordinance, which is on a passenger flight schedule that is intended for landing at Plovdiv Airport, TVA090, registration LZMDK, type A320. The requests for phased suspension of the firing of the polygons, which affect the safe landing of the specified aircraft, were submitted from 16.15 p.m. to 16.23 p.m. on 31 May 2022. The polygons were deactivated within 15 minutes, which is significantly shorter than the times defined in the instructions, and at 16.31 p.m., the operation of the polygons was restored due to the decision of the crew to land at Sofia Airport. There are no other flights that have affected the work of the hail control polygons and no errors or deviations from the statutory procedures have been made. In order to improve the provisions established and implemented so far on 7 June this year, an intergovernmental meeting was convened with the participation of all responsible institutions to identify measures to reduce the negative effects on farmers in carrying out anti-urban protection activities. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture Mr. Ivan Hristnov. As a result of the discussions, the following decisions were taken. Within 17 June of this year, the State-owned Air Traffic Guide will propose to the other participants a draft for regulatory changes in Instruction No 4, on the basis of which anti-urban protection will prevail over flights for which air navigation services by civil air traffic services are provided. Within 24 June of this year, the draft change of instruction will be submitted to the Minister of Transport and the approval messages, before which it will be uploaded for public consultation. It must be coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture and with the Department of Defense. I would like to add that, until the entire process is finalised, the current provisions will be respected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Shishkov, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the fact that the instruction has been updated is good, but obviously it has not been updated adequately and you acknowledge it by the fact that you are setting up a new task force to make the relevant changes. What you said was that there were no mistakes, in my opinion, does not correspond with the truth, because if there were no mistakes, thousands of acres of agricultural production would not suffer and now farmers would be wondering how to get out of the situation. It's obvious there's been a mistake and it needs to be straightened out. With regard to the working group that you have called, to remind you that in relation to the previous case, I asked the same question to the Minister of Agriculture and he replied to me the answer is on 10 September last year that specific changes will be proposed within 10 days to optimize the process of activation and deactivating the hail control polygons. Today we are on June 10 from September 20, so far, many months have passed, obviously such changes have not happened. I therefore urge you to really do everything possible to make adequate decisions and adequate changes so that we do not have to once again wonder how to compensate the owners and have the prime minister walk in boots on the spot to see what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Moving on to the marathon with Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. [[Radio.]] The first question is asked by the MP Escheref Escheref about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Mr. Escheref, if you'd like to ask your question, perhaps in the specifics, I don't understand where this thing happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Yes, Mr. Chairman, in particular I will ask the question. My question is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during election campaign and election day. Dear Minister, on July 8, 2021 in the village of Chernograd, Aytos Municipality, Burgas District was searched or searched the vehicle of Mr. Deniz Remzi Hajrula, who is a member of the DPS District Council in Burgas, and only agitating materials were found in his car, after which he is obliged to sign a protocol that he distributes such materials. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case and on the grounds of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions. On what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the said search or search of the vehicle was carried out? Has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions of the above-mentioned case? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the issues do not affect the personal rights or interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u157	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in. Looking for the answer in the entire folder? The question is from the MP Escheref Escheref.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u158	Is it for Karageorgievo, sir?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u159	To Blacktown!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have one question, but it's for another person I think. It's from Escheref Escheref, but it's about Aytos Municipality. It's about Karageorgievo. [[Relations from the National Representative Escheref Escheref.]] I don't have it here, not that I don't want to answer. Is this question in your plan to ask or not? [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u161	Minister, let's not engage in dialogue. If you're not ready, we'll reschedule for next time, I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] We move on to the next question, which is asked by MP Sevim Ali about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you are, Mr. Ali, to develop your question. [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev wants the floor for procedure.]] Wait a minute, procedure please, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u162	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, once again today I will repeat my procedure, which I did this morning to ask or to pass on to the two ministers of the Interior and Defence, to inform the National Assembly what happened yesterday and what information they have about the aircraft entering the Republic of Bulgaria. The Minister of Defence refused to give information to the National Assembly so considered, which is not logical for me, as we are ultimately the supreme authority in this country yet. I therefore turn again through you to invite Minister Rashkov to provide information to the National Assembly about exactly what happened yesterday, how exactly this plane turned out to be in Targovishte and what actions the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have done, because we have not been able to understand what happened in the part of the Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u163	Mr. Gajev, the Home Secretary is in the room, he heard your invitation. Whether or not he'll take the stand is his right. Let's continue with parliamentary control. Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, it is commendable that although at the end of this management agony in the words of your former coalition partner and at the end of this disastrous government for our country, in the last three weeks you have come and appeared in parliamentary control. Be so kind as to answer all our questions, provide us with written answers to the questions that were asked by our parliamentary group in February. So two weeks ago, from this parliamentary tribune of the National Assembly, you said that you are very happy to see young people in this hall and outside this room, as they are for you, as well as for us, the future of our country Bulgaria. That is certainly true! Why am I saying this? Because my question concerns a young man, an activist of the youth organization, 25 years old, who I would like to stress that he has never set foot in a police station on any occasion other than getting his ID or driver's license. So this young man on July 8 in the village of Karageorgievo, Aitos municipality was searched and checked on the car. His name is Hussein Ali Mehmedali and he is a resident of the village of Zaichar, municipality of Rouen. In it were found agitating materials. The same young man is obliged to sign a protocol that distributes agitative materials. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions. On what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the above-mentioned search was carried out? Has the D.A. been notified of the search? What are the further actions of the described case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u165	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please respond. [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] Whether or not he'll take the stand is his right. Please, I've given you an opportunity for a procedure. [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] Please don't engage in dialogue! You have a question, Minister, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ali, you ask a question: what is the matter with him? So put by you, the issue seems quite critical to the employees of the Ministry of Interior. And I have to say that their actions were motivated by a signal received, Mr. Ali, they didn't just go off to deal, rudely speaking, with individuals who had activities in connection with upcoming elections last year. A signal was also received from the person M. H. L., who reported in the respective division of the Ministry of Interior for questionable behavior of persons, this was on July 8, 2021 at 9:05 p.m., then the signal was received. Given what all employees of the Ministry of Interior are aware that in such an election period, including a day or two before the elections themselves, violations of the rules relating to the electoral process are being carried out, generally speaking, of course, that the necessary actions have been taken. A file has been created, there is a number of the description of the District Police Department (Aytos) in connection with a crime under art. 167, para. 2 of the Penal Code. The persons are identified in the vehicle they are reported to be moving, and the driver has proved to be the person you are asking for. There are also passengers with him, it is noted that they are indeed all sympathizers of a political party. In the present case, no search has been carried out but a check of the vehicle, which is regulated in art. 81 of the Ministry of Interior Act. On this protocol, which, of course, appears on the face of Mehmed Ali, the owner of the motor vehicle also signed. There is also a written report from him, no warning protocols have been drawn up. The case was reported to the District Prosecutor's Office there, especially the territorial department in Aytos of the Prosecutor's Office in Burgas District. By a decree and a number indicated here, she, the Prosecutor's Office, has issued a refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings. That's the case. There are many cases in our country and I believe that from what I have as information, we cannot conclude what you have started your question, actions for pressure and harassment. Every day, I would say 24/7, this single European number 112 is used and signals of a different nature are issued. A large part of them concerns the activities of the Ministry of Interior services and they in these cases undertake and carry out appropriate checks. It's a routine activity of this office. So in this case, in the case of a signal received, and not by an accidental person, I think that what the employees of the Ministry of Interior have done is in the order of things for their routine day-to-day activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u167	Thank you. Mr. Ali, you have an opportunity for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, we at the DPS conclude that obviously this joy that applies to young people here and outside this room and to this fatherly affection that you are talking about clearly does not apply to young people when they are among the ranks of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have always supported the activities of the Ministry of Interior's employees to prevent the vote being bought. We've always supported the fight against the bought vote. And I dare say that I know very few employees of the Ministry of Interior, who quite impartially and professionally, perform their duties as such. The political guidelines that were given last year, in July and November, they were interference with the electoral process, dear Minister. This happened last year, and no signal that you are talking about can be grounds for illegal acts by officials of the Ministry of Interior. In this case, it is about a young person who is not hiding, with his private car circling the village, handing out agitative materials to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and with a tablet on which an application has been downloaded, showing the residents of this populated area how to vote in the upcoming elections in July, as the state's policy was in this direction as well. For the first time, there was a full machine vote, and the state's policy was to make it as easy as possible in their constitutional law when exercising their vote. In a private conversation, this young gentleman mentioned this to me: The purpose of this auto-sign was to be humiliated in front of my friends. The goal was to instill the people of this population, you see, almost..A movement for rights and freedoms.... is doing something wrong....................................................... the movement for rights and freedoms.............................. And again, in a private conversation, this same young man mentioned this to me. Since he was born in 1996 and has only heard of the Zhivkov regime by his parents, he said to me the following: I had the feeling that I was living in an episode of totalitarian regime, with these actions of what I was subjected to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u169	Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very often it starts to happen, including in relation to questions about ordinary cases that do not mark anything special in the work of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. There are extremely serious political conclusions being drawn here and there is nothing in common between one and the other, I assure you of that. It's got nothing to do with it! And in the next place I can say that it is commendable that young people are heading towards politics and hope not to be like some others in politics that was another context, and that does not mean that when there is information, there are signals that a young person may be involved in carrying out a prohibited activity by the Law, just because he is at that age no one will show any interest in him. This misconception, in my opinion, is at the very least appropriate for the National Assembly's stand. It seems to me that nothing by accident happened to the inspection undertaken by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior on a signal. Maybe it'll make sense to you, but I'll save the name of the person who gave the signal so he doesn't get embarrassed and you don't have to account for it. That's the answer to my question. Don't call him to account. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I'm gonna keep this guy's name, though, but nothing happened, and this guy you're asking about wasn't with limited rights. The signal was checked and nothing else followed from here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is again from the National Representative Sevim Ali and has the same wording, so I will read the numbers What procedure, Mr. Gadget? Here you go. But if it's the same procedure, you abuse it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, because I am not sure if Minister Rashkov heard my last procedure because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u173	Now that you've abused, that's what you've done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u174	...digging through his files. Therefore, Mr President, I want you to inform him exactly what I asked you to do, because he obviously does not hear the representatives speaking from this platform. When the ministers pretend not to hear, we have no other option but to submit a deliberate hearing. We therefore ask with good faith and let us inform the National Assembly not to proceed to an explicit hearing on the subject, because there are a lot of critical things and quite problematic things that are noticeable on the side. We hope they're not true, so that's why we want to hear them, not because of something else. If they keep listening, then we'll have them talk on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u175	I wanted to tell you that you are trying to circumvent parliamentary control in this way. Ask yourself the current question.. There is a procedure. Mr. Sevim Ali, please come in for the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, as much as you try to distinguish yourself from the actions of that totalitarian darkness regime, and this young man, who I asked you before, will remember you with this, because he told me the following: I felt that this was an episode of totalitarian regime. Those are his words. My next question is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and the election day refers to the date 7 July 2021 in the city of Sredets, Burgas district. A search has been carried out at the home of Mr. Lalo Andonov Gyurov, the municipal chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Four police patrols of the Gendarmerie and two patrols from the District Department go to his house and these officers search his home and on election day he is detained in the District Department of the town of Sredets for more than three hours. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions. On what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings did the abovementioned search and subsequent detention take place? Has the D.A. been notified of the search? What are the further actions on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have not had a single question recently, from any other political party, about the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior sympathizer, party member, activist and probably, when viewers and listeners follow the ongoing parliamentary control, there is some illusory, absolutely false feeling and impression that someone from the Ministry of Interior seems to be constantly going and looking for representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, using the laws of the country and harassing them. This, on the other hand, is absolutely justified as a conclusion, bearing in mind what I have repeatedly emphasised, that all the questions that have been asked here in months, from this tribune, start with this: the question is about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior. [[Shows the documents.]] From this wording, the path to what we have heard here several times about an analogy with totalitarian times and so on is only one step. This artificial questioning from the present 30, 40, 50 years ago is not an accident. I fully understand what the purpose and purpose is, of course, that there must be an opposition party in the plenary, including at the cost of unreliable data, which are most often exported from this platform. They mostly move out. So I'm going to say this. On the first part of Mr. Sevim Ali's question, I would recommend, as said here, a Member of the National Assembly for Rights and Freedoms. Let the prosecution order an investigation and let this matter be clarified. From this parliamentary tribune, of course, political statements can be made, which I think are constantly made by the representatives of the parliamentary group of When it comes to the person in question, what is the legal basis for this citizen being detained? At the same time, the verification we carried out found in an indisputable way that this person was not taken to the district management building in Sredets. It became known that it was not detained in accordance with the Constitution and the Law for 24 hours. And I ask myself the question, and perhaps you should all ask yourself the question: why am I now answering something that does not correspond to the reality that a Bulgarian citizen has been detained, taken to the District and detained? I can no longer answer that question, since there is no citizen in custody. That is, I am placed as a minister, given the untrue claims made here by this tribune, unable to answer any question, because there is no real question. There's a fictional thesis, a fictional question. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ali, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister! Colleagues, I quote: In front of my wife's eyes, in front of my son's eyes, in front of my daughter-in-law's eyes, who was pregnant in the ninth month, in the morning at 11:00 am four cars of the Gendarmerie, two cars from the District Department searched his house for two hours and then on election day this person, in front of the eyes of his friends, in front of everyone, was taken to the District Department in Sredets and was held for more than two hours there. And the goal is that only one person can not do his job because he is a municipal councilman because he is called to hold elections. Dear Minister, I am very careful to monitor each of your answers to questions raised by the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms. Nothing specific about the questions asked. You have two answers. One answer you make a political statement from this tribune. Your other answer is suggestion. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is almost doing something wrong. And that says one thing: that you do not know the voters of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There is no power to go and buy these people, these worthy Bulgarian citizens, toiled Bulgarian citizens, who 32 years ago, Minister, made their conscious value choice, and these are the people who brought democracy to Bulgaria. That is why there is democracy not only for you, for us, but also for you, and these people are at the heart of it, and they have paid a very high price. And those people that you started harassing during the elections and during the election day, remember that they are children, they are sons, daughters of those people who with their bodies stood against the Mercury regime, with their bodies stood against the tanks of the Mercury regime and against the weapons of the Mercury regime. And you can't use any signals, checks and harassment to scare these people. They will continue to follow the path of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And the path of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is democracy, is rights and freedoms for all Bulgarian citizens in our common homeland Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u181	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will he have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you can see, we're not talking about today and tomorrow, but parallels and analogies are done 30, 40, 50 years ago, but we can't stop this talking. A few concrete facts I would like to tell you, honourable Members of the House. On 11 July, the address of this citizen, for which the issue is, was visited by the Ministry of Interior on available information. Yes, it is clear to him that there will be a check in his home, has voluntarily granted employees access to his home, a check has been carried out and lists of persons have been found. Why don't I have a list of faces in my house? I don't. How is it that these officers of the Ministry of Interior are always finding lists of persons for whom the parliamentary tribune questions are being asked here? Debit cards and ID cards of persons in connection with the upcoming elections and so on. During the verification the person has transmitted a list of other persons with personal data, CNN, phone numbers, in one of the rooms was found a list of fresh persons from him three ID cards from the town of Sredets. The person has been requested and has given written information in which he has indeed reflected that he is the chairman of the Political Party DPS in Sredets, without submitting a document. For what has been done by virtue of art. 83 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, a corresponding protocol is drawn up, that is, what the law requires. This document was signed by the person whose home the inspection was carried out without objection. No objections! With regard to the citizen, neither physical force nor aid has been used, nor has there been any humiliating treatment. He hasn't been taken to the Sredets District Building and hasn't been arrested with a 24-hour detention warrant. On the contrary, it is true that this citizen has appeared and provided documents in connection with the verification confirming the fact that the intended list contains names of members of the Selection Election Commission. On election day, July 11, the person was not detained in the Regional Administration of Sredets which, as a view of the wording of the question that has been asked me. I repeat, this person was not detained on election day at the District Police Department. The materials of this inspection are sent to the Prosecutor's Office of jurisdiction. So the legal procedure has been executed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Ali, for a procedure in the manner of conduct. Before you take the floor, I would just like to call for the questions and answers to stick to what is given as a framework of the matter, without too many references and explanations from each of the countries that take part in the control, so that we can hear as many answers as possible and shed light on all cases as you say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you allow a functioning interior minister to speak factually inaccuracies from the highest tribune of the National Assembly. Because for those lists that the minister mentioned, he had to clarify and say that on these lists are people who are in the sectional election committees. Because this man is the municipal chairman of the DPS in Sredets municipality. And he had to say that all these people on these lists were interrogated by employees of the Ministry of Interior and it turns out they were really members of section election committees from previous elections. And he had to say that the D.A. came up with an opinion that there was no record of a crime committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u185	Okay, thanks. One more procedure. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr President, I appeal to you to remind everyone, both the MPs and the ministers that there is a certain order in which parliamentary control is carried out, and there is also a certain order in which the ministers can speak from this platform and speak whatever they want. And the edifying tone with the non-answer of the questions raised by the MPs by the ministers cannot cover up their interference with what they call "checks" to bully political opponents during the elections. This thing is being seen in this room right now. However, the ministers would be right and it is good to answer the questions asked, and by making statements, they can make statements at any time on any subject, Mr President. Make some remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u187	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Let's move on to the next question from Tsvetan Enchev on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rashkov, honourable colleagues! My question concerns Anatoly Markov Vachev about something that happened on July 10, 2021. This is one of the many cases in which employees of the Ministry of Interior, using their legal right given to them in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 shall carry out a check on premises with or without consent from their inhabitants. So the person in question was searched at his home, before that a search was carried out at his establishment. His family was dragged out into the street in the heat, along with his six-month-old child.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u189	I didn't hear what you said before with his six-month-old child.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u190	His family was taken out on the street, along with his six-month-old to conduct a search.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u192	What were the authorities of the Ministry of Interior doing, using a signal sometime, saying there was a signal? I would like to remind the honourable Mr. Rashkov, who is an exceptional lawyer, at least for me that this text allows people's homes to be checked if the signal is a serious crime. He probably knows better than I do which crime is hard. At the same time, because you, Mr. Chairman, quite often wonder why we keep asking the same question. We ask because if this signal, which we hardly ever understand if it exists, for what crime and so on, if it turns out to be unfaithful, there is a text in the Penal Code that says: "Instruction." There is another text that says that anyone who enters a foreign home, using this power or abuse of power, is punished by imprisonment. That's why we ask these things. And I ask the honourable minister to say to Anatoli Markov Vachev and the search carried out at his establishment, respectively at his home... on what basis, on what basis, is the prosecution informed of the actions carried out and what are the further actions in the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u193	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Obviously, we are facing an extremely political achievement at the moment, and we should be happy. I'm not going to go on and make a point. I just want to say that it seems to me that my tone is very correct, I am fully trying to answer the questions so as to make it clear not only to the question posed by all Members of the National Assembly, I am using all the information available in the cases of almost one year ago, although 99% of the questions so formulated and put are not within the competence of the Minister of Interior, but within the competence of the Prosecutor's Office. That's why I'm not going to stop saying that the stands aren't being used right now. Dear Mr. Enchev! I'm not wrong, am I?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u195	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u196	I am not mistaken the name, but I do not know why you ask for a person named Anatoly Markov Vachev when such a name on the automated information system does not exist? There's another face with matching names, but not three. Should I answer the question you're asking me now? I'm gonna answer you because I'm gonna say this one more time, because we're right, that's not the name of the person you're asking for another person. However, I think that you have made a mistake either you do not know this person well or there is some other reason why you refer to me as a minister for a person who does not exist on documents. Why are you asking him that question, I don't know? It's about, I'm probably saying, it's about another person who's Antov. If this is about him, I will inform you of the following. With regard to this person, a signal was received from another person - S.M.K., from another locality, not Borovan, that the person you are asking for offered him the sum of 50 BGN. to vote for a particular political party, including having asked him whether he would vote for a specific candidate. I'll save it right now. The sender of the signal, Mr. Enchev, has been questioned. He's been interrogated, including in front of a judge, where he confirmed what he said to the police. It is also discussed by the citizen himself, who is here, from this tribune, we comment that according to your general statement of political opinion, pressure and harassment have been imposed on him. And I will say this: when a signal, information, data that someone is preparing or has committed a crime, and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are taking the necessary and legally binding actions, if this is harassment, answer you, purely political, is this harassment? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Is this harassment when they do their duty by law and by Constitution?! I'll continue in a moment if I have the chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, I will make my particular reference to the names, and if I have made a mistake, of course, I will offer my apologies. As far as harassment is concerned, I will only take a stand, if I may, Mr. Chairman. I've done three campaigns, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, three election campaigns, and I can tell you for myself what I've been through as pressure and harassment. There was no person or establishment or place where there was an opportunity to gather Bulgarian citizens, which I visited during these three campaigns and respectively talked to these people on the most ordinary political topics that concern Bulgarian citizens in the respective locality, in the respective municipality, in the relevant area. There wasn't a place I was in that wasn't visited by internal affairs authorities. There wasn't a person I communicated with who wasn't checked in one way or another who wasn't warned not to engage in criminal activity. I would like to say this to you, Mr. President, because you are constantly wondering what we are doing and because I took the liberty of saying, perhaps not so good, or in order of things, it does not seem normal to me, dealing with politics, every single person I have spoken to, to be warned not to commit criminal activity. In no way in my work, in my life, have I led people to commit crimes, neither I nor my family. We've been walking fair and square all our way. This is harassment, Minister. Individually, you, with the actions carried out by the authorities, have told all these people that Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev is a candidate for a national representative in the sixth multi-manded electoral area, speaking to you, we warn you not to commit a crime. I'm here to try to rule this country better than to lead people to commit crimes. That's what I mean by pressure, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u199	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I find it difficult to give answers to the general political questions "not specific, since it is not clear which Bulgarian citizen we are talking about here. However, this does not prevent, although the issue is obviously unpersonalized, unattractive, this does not prevent political conclusions, including assessments of how I give answers. A few moments ago, one of the MPs began to tell me what kind of answer I should give. I will not give an answer that you like, I will give an answer that corresponds to the facts that we have established in the verification of your question. That our answer or my answer you don't like, I can't change the answer when I'm referring to facts. What can I say in front of the plenary session when they ask me a question, not about a person who exists, but about a person who does not exist, and they characterize him that he is reluctant to commit a crime, give him a positive feature at all? So you don't know who you're asking for, but you give it a positive characteristic. One more thing. Pressure and harassment is linked to everything that is necessarily, if it is sympathetic or a member of the Department of the Interior, whatever the ministry has done, it is under this common sense of action, harassment and so on, pressure and the like. However, the prosecution does not refer to the prosecution in order to carry out an objective inspection, as it is much easier than this tribune to throw accusations against the employees of the Ministry of Interior. It does not respect at all that the Act on the Ministry of Interior obliges these people to carry out similar reflective actions, and then, when they find that there is a reason for the law, to draw up warning protocols, to conduct a search. So now, Mr. Chairman and honourable Members, please, I will proceed with a few facts to convince you that there is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u201	Mr. Rashkov, I must ask you very quickly since you've transferred the time by half a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u202	With regard to this person you are asking about, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated, the investigation on which has been conducted under the authority of the relevant prosecution. How will a Member of the National Assembly oppose the prosecution's investigation of a criminal offence involving political rights of Bulgarian citizens? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] In addition, a search and seizure has been carried out precisely on the basis of these data under the management of the Prosecutor's Office. Turn to the prosecution, it will give you probably much more specific data if you consider that you want to give them. The stands are not for the kind of experiments you're doing here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from Dzhevdet Chakarov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Rashkov, for two months now, we at the DPS have been asking you questions about police arbitrariness and harassment, which you accept as uniform and do not even bother to listen to the specific question. Unfortunately, it's the same today. So now I demand that you listen to what I am about to present and answer my question specifically. In the village of Chukovets, the municipality of Alfatar, Silistra District, where I was elected MP, during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021, Mr. Beizat Osman's local president of the DPS was presented a warning protocol by a police authority under the Ministry of Interior Act on a signal from an opponent for doubting the purchase of votes. A protocol shall be drawn up by a specific composition of the Criminal Code. The report in question by the police authorities does not state on the basis of what specific evidence it is drawn up, as well as a specific legal basis. In this regard, my question is: within the meaning of which member of the Penal Code is drawn up the warning protocol of Beizat Osman and on the basis of what specific evidence; is there a prosecutor's check and a prosecutor's file on the alert in question and is there any pre-trial proceedings? I repeat, to make sure that I get an answer to the question asked: within the meaning of which member of the Penal Code the warning protocol of Beizat Osman is drawn up and on the basis of what concrete evidence; is there a prosecutor's check and a prosecutor's file on the alert in question and is there any pre-trial proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u205	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u206	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chakarov, it's a good thing you're not prosecutors, you'd be blaming anyone. I believe that I am answering quite correctly and comprehensively every question that I am asked. So the note, the Minister, is not answering our questions specifically. I do not accept. There is no question I haven't answered in detail sometimes, and I read even materials here before you. We ran a background check on this citizen you're pointing at. And here, Mr. Chakarov, you could have extended the question a little bit, made it more original, not in the general context of harassment and pressure. It would've been a lot harder. Chukovets, Alfatar Municipality, there were data that were received by the Ministry of Interior in the region of Silistra District. Operating data from previous elections, I stress this, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior usually study law or at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior study forensics and there has been a long time known, there is a notion of "modus operands" is said to be, and when some data are known that they have dealt with a certain type of activity, violations or crimes, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are heading towards it first. And that is why I stress here that, with regard to this person, there was operational data from previous or related to previous elections, as well as for the elections that were held in July 2021. Directly or indirectly, this person is carrying out actions, activities affecting the electoral process. In this regard, there has not been much going on, but a talk with this person and a police warning protocol has been drawn up for him on a legitimate basis, on the basis of those data which exist in the funds of the Ministry of Interior and specifically in Silistra District, not to take illegal actions relating to the electoral process. That's the warning. One note. I've always wanted the MPs, when they ask a question, to prepare a little bit. For such a warning protocol, dear Mr. Chakarov, no evidence is necessary. Enough data, information, including operational ones. If I have to, I'll move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u207	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Minister, please come in, Professor Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Rashkov, you, Mr. Rashkov, are not answering specific questions again. And I appeal to you, it is hardly the platform of the National Assembly where a minister will teach how to prepare a certain MP, how to prepare my questions to which you will not answer and give lectures here how the Ministry of Interior system works. Each MP is largely familiar with the activities of the Ministry of Interior. But what I would like to say after your reply, Mr. Rashkov, is that it makes the impression that up to the time of all the questions raised by DPS MPs related to the activities of the Ministry of Interior towards party activists during the election campaign, you are barely pronounced as a last resort. And you're almost pronounced after that as a court of law, almost with all your comments and sentences, I allow myself to say it. And you don't give answers. And in this way you are definitely making suggestions here from the National Assembly's stand regarding the DPS. No one is contesting, we are not contesting the need to send signals to prevent and disclose vote buying, but it does not impress when no archin is applied to all political forces involved in the electoral process. We have reason to doubt that during the parliamentary elections campaigns in July and November last year, there was also a tendency by some of the police authorities with regard to the DPS, and a close-up of their eyes to other political forces, some of which are currently part of the ruling majority or no longer a ruling majority. It is logical that the question arises as to whether or not it has been acted that way. And something very important. A basic principle taking into account the results of the work of each office, including the Ministry of Interior, are defined as indicators of success. We know that for the Ministry of Interior and its structures one of the main indicators of success are the cases filed and especially the sentences pronounced. In this regard, I would like to ask you, can you account for a success rate in this direction with regard to the checks carried out and the warning protocols drawn up by the police authorities of DPS activists on signals submitted against them? I hope that we will hear specific statistics on this issue and please answer me specifically to the specific question. Because in most of the answers you give here, you can make your own reference. You say that the files have been terminated, that is, there is no next stage. In other words, there were insufficient grounds for all that has been done, and these are political suggestions with a view to achieving negative effects in terms of campaigning and creating a stressful situation for people, something that is not moral and it is not right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u209	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Do you want a hole? Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u210	Honourable Mr. Chairman and Dear Members of the National Assembly! I take note of any particular matter which is part of the content of what Mr. Chakarov asks: is there a warning protocol from the police service? I answered yes, there is. On what grounds is this warning protocol drawn up? I just answered on the basis of existing information, I said: operational data. I made it clear that they could be both from the past and from the present before the date of the July parliamentary elections last year. With regard to the specific person asked by Mr. Chakarov, there were data from both categories from both the past and the present. I merely made a note that for the drafting of a protocol which is a fact yes, it is drawn up on this basis. I just made a note that it is not necessary for employees to collect evidence because there is no pending criminal trial. And this is not a lecture, Mr. Chakarov, and this is directly related to the answer to the question you are asking me. No, there's no evidence, and there's operational data. There is a very significant difference between the two concepts. And further on in relation to your question. As for this citizen there has been such information, he has been warned by a protocol within the meaning and by virtue of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, that is, a warning. There is nothing more done about this man, and this cannot be interpreted, including political, as some sort of harassment and pressure. No, on the contrary. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior have fulfilled their obligation arising from the laws of the country. It's democracy, Mr. Chakarov. And one more thing. This man has no complaint with us about what police officers of the Silistra district have done to him. There's no such thing. It's been almost a year since then. We don't have a signal from him. If we did, I would have assigned our inspectorate to carry out such an inspection immediately. He volunteered to sign the protocol, didn't refuse to sign the protocol. And at all in the form and content of this document, which is drawn up on a legal basis, we cannot see absolutely no infringement. As far as the case is concerned, I should stress something that I have said repeatedly: not every inspection that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the authorities of the prosecution and the investigation take lead to an indictment in court. One large part of these cases and these checks end either with the formation of pre-trial proceedings or with the non-indictment. As far as the statistics are concerned, Mr. Chakarov, I would like to remind you of something you need to know from the Staff Regulations in terms of statistics, this is not a question, but you will have to put me in writing so that I can reply in writing. I can't give you statistics right now because I don't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u211	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. [[Reply from the People's Representative Sevim Ali.]] I didn't understand that comment, Mr. Ali, I apologize for that. South wind, okay. Pavlin Krastev? The wind blew him away, okay. The seventh question to Mr. Rashkov is from Elhan Kulkov about actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! I have no claim that I work properly with legal terminology, but honourable Members listen carefully to the case that I will say, and you, looking at most of you are the parents of young children, are you to make an account of how and what happened. I said: I have no claim whether it's pressure, whether it's harassment, whether it's a warning or a mistake, but I say the actual situation. On 2 July 2021 in the village of Bukovo, Gotse Delchev municipality, Blagoevgrad district, Suat Cemal Mehrm, notice a different case, is not a representative of the DPS, an ordinary Bulgarian citizen, working on his own property, stops a vehicle of General Directorate of Zhendarmeria, where armed men with hoods come from and in front of the eyes of his children who are in the first and fourth grade, perform a search of the current person, search or inspect the car, put their hands on the car, and after a few minutes they leave it on the ground. Cops go and come the unpleasant moment when his children cry and ask him the questions: Dad, what have you done that these people come here in this way, what have you done? This is the actual situation. Six days later, he was summoned to sign a warning protocol. And since it's clear that we're getting answers to a Xerox, they're now going to say that there was operational information about it, according to art. 65 was drafted by the Ministry of Interior and so on. Mr. Chairman, I don't have a question for the Minister here. And this is at the request of Suat Mehrem, who saw me last week and said the following: I watched the previous controls in the National Assembly. It became clear to me what happened during the election campaign, I guess the whole of Bulgaria also became aware of what was happening in Bulgaria. Therefore, my request is that you send it to the President of the National Assembly. I personally trust you. And the man said: "You are to gather all the parliamentary groups, to prepare such legislation that what this person has experienced at this time does not happen to any of us, our children and our grandchildren. Then I'd be happy if you did something. Otherwise, it's all a sequel.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u213	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u214	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I don't know how anyone gets the same question for months, how do they diversify the answers?! [[Reply from DPS: "These are different cases! "]] I just can't diversify them. The same is said everywhere that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have implemented pressure and harassment. To this same question against all citizens, most often those who are members, sympathizers of the movement for rights and freedoms, how can we respond?! I'm really trying to diversify the answers with this in mind, having done a check on what they've established, but my possibilities in this particular case are not infinite. Now, as far as the specific question is concerned. Should I answer you because you said you didn't want to be answered?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u215	I don't want to!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u216	Excuse me? Mr. Chairman, what should we do, what does the Rules provide in such a hypothesis?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u217	Are you withdrawing the question, Mr. Kulkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u218	I didn't ask for an answer, nothing. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u219	Wait a minute. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u220	Okay, come on, tell me. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u221	Okay, come on, tell me now. You keep your question straight. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u222	I have the pleasure to answer, and I thank you for that. On July 2nd, specific officials of the Ministry of Interior from the Gotse Delchev District Police Department actually visited this locality, where the designated person is from Mr. Kulkov, in view of the data available again, which they had available for the fact that this person was involved in the electoral process in a way that gave them reason to conclude that he would commit a violation or a crime in connection with the upcoming elections. This is why they visited Bukovo, Gotsedelchevsko, this Bulgarian citizen. If there is no such data, on what grounds, first, and secondly, why, for what reasons would they go to visit a Bulgarian citizen in this locality? She's been talking to this guy. See how frankly I'm going to tell you now in this talk he has stated that he is not engaged in such an activity, a suspicion of which police officers had. I mean, I couldn't have told you that if I was wrong. [[Reply.]] Snapped is a report from this person, there is also a written protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. In this document, drawn up under the Law, it is indeed stated not to take actions which could qualify as crimes against the political rights of citizens and are specified precisely art. 167 and the following from the special part of the Penal Code. All that I am currently informing the people's representation is drawn up in relevant documents that are available. I.D.s available! It seems to me that, underlining this, I would like you to conclude that this is not about carrying out any arbitrary activity outside the laws, outside the rules and so on. Normally, if someone wants to cover up their own actions, I won't draw up relevant documents. Otherwise, and that concludes, there is not enough data and information gathered in this case to serve to initiate a criminal trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u224	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you are the one who said that this man has never engaged in political activity. And that's why it's the question, and that's why it's completely different from all the other cases. You yourself admitted that he was not engaged, but this painting that I described to you just now, from a purely human, morally speaking, does anyone know what happened, and what trace remains in this man's own children? You just said: "Give a signal against the Gendarmerie or against the police in the prosecutor's office. " - No, you know the day, you know the people who were at that time there. You could have sent the Inspector of the Interior to investigate the case and at least one excuse to get the man here from the Minister for making a mistake or not being objective signal. And that's why we've asked you to provide us with documents so we know who these people are who are making these signals. Are they auto-signs, are they anything else? In the Ministry of Interior, you know their names. Why should the man judge the police, for example, if, by your claims, the police have done their job? Why shouldn't he sue the guy who gave the wrong and misleading signal? Here is the catch and here you are constantly running away from the answer and do not want to provide us with documents which under the Constitution, under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, you were obliged to give us. Because this ordinary person will never sit down and write a complaint to you, but I, as a MP, have allowed myself to ask, and you are obliged to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u225	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? We're moving on. Question from the MP Bajram Bajram. Here you go, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Minister, in every parliamentary control we ask questions to you, we see that you are quite emotional. In your answers to us we see that you are nervous, arrogant...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u227	Mr. Bayram, please, no qualifications. Proceed to your question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u228	Yeah, just to say that this reminds me of an old Turkish saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u229	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u230	If there was no fire, there would be no smoke, Mr. Rashkov. If there were no harassment and pressure from the Ministry of Interior, there wouldn't be these questions. My question relates to one of the tens of thousands across the country for pressure, one of the hundreds in the Kardzhali region. I hope the answer is not like two weeks ago for a question that we had asked for pressure in the village of Opalchensko. I released your reply and people freaked out because you said there was no such case then, there was no case file, there was nothing in the Ministry of Interior, and people said that the police were there and the person was taken away. The activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has been taken away, which shows that there has been pressure and you will remain in history as the Minister of Home Affairs, who has brought back the dark times of the communist regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u231	Stop talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u232	What nonsense? For being the Home Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u233	Mr. Bayram, please, if you have a question, go to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u234	It's an identical question. On 11 July in Borovets district, town of Kardzhali, Mr. Orhan Orhan Mehmed, an activist of the DPS, signed a warning protocol that he would not participate in the transport of people to the electoral sections. On what legal basis and what is the existence of sufficient data for the signing of a warning protocol? Has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on the case described? I'm waiting for a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u235	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. You have the floor to answer, Minister. [[Reply from DPS.]] I ask that there really be no qualifications on both sides so that the controls can run properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will say this: Dear Mr. Bajram, you are showing a calmness, but this does not prevent you from using expressions that are not for this House. For your party event, meeting and others you can, congresses, conferences yes, but not here. [[DPS lines.]] Not here, please. The specific question is the following.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u237	Am I arrogant?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u238	No, no, it's debatable what's arrogant. To claim here from this tribune of lies, false claims or the one who answers quite correctly explains the situation on the subject in all directions? [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u239	Go to the answer, Mr. Rashkov, already.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u240	As far as I'm concerned... I didn't call in any insulting way any...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u241	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u242	...from the MPs until now, I haven't characterized them, I haven't talked about their education and so on. I can talk, of course, but I don't think this is the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u243	Yeah. Go to the answer already.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u244	Now, once again, we're talking about an activist of the DPS, that's why it's a question. Somebody don't mess up. We're talking about a DPS activist. And one more thing before I answer specifically, because the question can be answered with two or three sentences. I very much agree with what the people's representative said. This saying is known not only in Turkish, but also in Bulgarian, that where there is fire, there is smoke, or if there is no fire, there is no smoke. That's true, I totally agree. And in this style we will now turn this saying into the style of parliamentary control: unless crimes are committed against the political rights of citizens, if there is no such data, if there is no such evidence, there will be no commitments of the Ministry of Interior, of the prosecution, of the investigation to conduct an investigation. If there is evidence of crime, we are obliged to take appropriate investigative action. There are dozens of cases formed and dozens of convicted persons who have been given the appropriate financial means, and in this way these particular persons are facing the stand, and now you are asking me questions about what you have done, only in another way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u245	Minister, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u246	As far as the case is concerned, the person you're asking me. Yes, indeed, with regard to it a protocol is drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, as regards a number of other citizens for whom such information is received in the relevant Ministry of Interior services. They are obliged to take such action. If they do not take such action, we will have to look for the reasons why they do not take such action, because this would be a failure to perform official duties. Next, as soon as this protocol is drawn up under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, operational data was available that he could participate in the committing of crimes related to the political rights of Bulgarian citizens, respectively, to persuade another person to carry out such actions. That's the basis. With regard to the citizen, data has been received in the Ministry of Interior that he carried out an illegal passenger transport activity for payment, including the removal of voters to the electoral sections during the election day for payment. That was the original data. [[(Reply from DPS: Has this been proven?]] This was the data of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, this was available to colleagues, so this is about preventive action taken by the ODMVR services, which is in full compliance with the laws in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u247	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Here you go, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u248	There's been a breakthrough. This time this case is registered, but the answer is blah blah blah, just talk...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u249	Mr. Bajram, can we use the language appropriate to parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u250	So, the person went to the election day with his relatives, the only person who had a car, went with his relatives to vote together. The neighbor, who doesn't have a car and is difficult to move, has asked his neighbor to go back to voting. Is that a violation? Is that a crime? Show me where the crime is. And out of here and talking about the fact that there was data... And when there is no pre-trial proceedings against this person and the person who issued the signal against this person, have any checks been taken because he is incriminating a person? Where are the Interior Ministry employees then to start checking why a person is incriminating another crime? Isn't that a disgrace to prestige? And then there was no pressure... In all the settlements, you acted the same way. Soon election comes again. We are not afraid of your actions. We know who ordered these things, and we will show you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will again show a good election result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u251	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. I gave you more time for the answer anyway. The next question is from the National Representative Hayri Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, before I begin my statement to the question, I just want to remind you. I have been present since the beginning of today's parliamentary control. At the address of the Minister of Interior, I would like to remind you that I am a Member of the National Assembly, as well as all the colleagues who are in this Chamber. This reminder is about the tone you answer us with. All these people have come to a direct choice, they have voted you to be a minister. I'm holding on to this thing. I will then come to the subject of the matter, and I will note that this is the second time I am asking a question about a warning protocol for a mayor or mayor's deputy. These people are employees of the administration. They've had a direct choice in front of the people in the settlements they work for. Mostly, my questions come not from the official himself, mayor or mayor's deputy, but from the people who voted for them. They ask me: "The few times we have cast our voice for this man, have we been in error and yet the Ministry of Interior finds that this man violates the rules of choice? We remained less familiar with the person, with the person, with his qualities, than the Ministry of Interior itself. And the other thing I'm going to pay attention to before I ask my particular question is that for...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u253	Hurry up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u254	...one of the cases I've asked about, the signal is from a political person from another political party, nothing has been proven, there is no consequence, but there is a warning protocol for not taking any measures and actions and not including in the election campaign. There to have doubts that there is also political interference of the Ministry of Interior, a political opponent gives a signal, the opposing party is prohibited from dealing with political actions, whatever, during elections?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u255	What's the question, Mr. Sadakov, because one minute already...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u256	And my specific question is again to you during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021 in the village of Dinkata, Lesichovo, Pazardzhik district Mr. Alexander Stoyanov, Mayor of the village of Dinkata, has a draft and signed warning protocol, mayor of the village with population of 1250 people. With the intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the following questions: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol; has the prosecution been informed and what further action on the case described? I note that the questions asked are related to possible unlawful actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Questions do not affect the personal rights and interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u257	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. I gave you two minutes more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u258	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u259	Less questions will be asked. You know, it's a long list. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! No one is arguing that every single mayor is the result of a direct choice. I do not see anyone violating this electoral system in our country, and that the people's representative is also the result of a direct choice. I, too, have been elected MP, so that here wasting plenary time in completely known things, notorical, does not make any sense. Yes, it is true that the citizen you are asking me about is the mayor of the village of Dinkata, Pazardzhik district. I could not find here to be your sympathizer or member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which should be noted. It's just one of the few cases where you don't ask about anyone other than sympathizers and members of the House of Rights and Freedoms and you ask about another citizen who may also be a supporter of another political party. I mean that in a positive way, if you know what I mean. However, this citizen is not immune. The fact that he is mayor does not mean that he is immune to administrative actions by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The warning protocol shall be such an administrative activity. It is aimed at preventing the committing of a crime. As far as he's concerned, if he commits a crime. Then the current, current and current law provides that there some special authorities may be competent to carry out a possible investigation, but this is another topic. He doesn't have any immunity. And that is why in our country, sadly, investigations are also being conducted against individuals who are elected mayors. So the fact that this person had a warning protocol drawn up in the light of data that had been entered into the services of the Regional Directorate of Interior in Pazardzhik was the basis for such a protocol in practice. No one has restricted his mayoral authority and no one has taken action to undermine the prestige or its authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u261	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, there is no signal, no signal whatsoever, that the signal is grounds for illegal action. There cannot be such a signal on the part of your employees, and when a person, no matter what, is equal to the law, whether they will be representatives of the DPS or not, they are all equal before the law, Mr. Minister. And we have stood behind everyone who has been damaged by dignity, rights and freedoms and we have done so all the time, but when a person for whom an alert has been issued, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior carry out an inspection, establish nothing and make him in any form, because they are still the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, to sign a protocol, this is not within the normal framework. And if nothing else, you at least as head of the Ministry of Interior go out and apologize to all those people for whom no facts have been established, nevertheless publicly in front of the people have been to say no disrespect, because when they put me in front of the people, without having any guilt and carrying out a check on me the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, with whom I may not have met, because I have not broken any parole for myself, the rules and the law, and do it in spite of everything publicly in front of the people, is abuse. Apologize to all those who have not in any way broken the laws and have nevertheless been subject to inspection, and most of them, subject and signing protocols. Make it out of the stands. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u263	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. I don't suppose you'd want the back. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Adlen Shevked...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, after another lecture on criminal law, I'm going to bring you my student license to give me the approved course of training. [[Private applause from DPS]] I believe that I have listened to it well to the entire choirhouse, which is most likely for this specialty in which you are teaching, but in this case I will ask you a specific question on which we, by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, have determined that on the part of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign, and on the very election day, actions have been carried out with which pressure and harassment has been put on members and sympathizers of the. On the day of the elections on 11 July 2021 in the village of Chereshitsa, Kardzhali municipality, Kardzhali district, Mr. Sabri Niazi Ibryam, who is a member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has been called to the police for testimony. The most interesting thing is that I insist on the date of 11 July 2021. I am not wrong. My question is: on what legal basis has he been called to the police on election day, has the prosecution been informed and what are the further actions on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u266	I do not have such self-confidence, Mr President, honourable Members, to read lectures in plenary because the lecture is completely different. If from someone the very small accents I put into my answers are relied on as lectures, then they really need to sign up somewhere, learn what this higher education is and see what lectures mean. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u267	Mrs. Shevked, you've opened the subject, you have to answer it somehow. Go ahead, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u268	Secondly, I'd like to say that if you give me your student's license, the assessment will be negative.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u269	I don't want an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u270	No, she wanted a certificate, Mr. Rashkov, not an assessment. But give me the answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u271	That's why, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u272	Keep going!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u273	Keep saying, you're being talked to. Therefore, by answering this question, you will understand one thing that witnessing in our country, as well as in every civilized one, is assessed as a duty of every Bulgarian citizen to assist in revealing the objective truth, and in some cases of a crime committed. You ask me this: on June 11th, the person was called to the police for a statement. What you're asking me is a testimony, and that's why I told you that it's a duty, and there's nothing wrong with a citizen showing up and being questioned as a witness. Sometimes this is necessary not only on election day, but sometimes it is necessary more urgent and at night, regardless of when it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u274	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u275	Your interpretations will then be what they will be. And now, more specifically. A file has been filed in the Ministry of Interior District in the town of Kardzhali, the specific number, the specific date 11 July 2021, is given on the alert. The names of the person who gave the signal, which refers to a violation of civil and political rights, are specifically indicated. These violations concerned the purchase of votes in three section election committees in the municipality of Kardzhali. I'm opening up a clamp, honourable MPs, if someone at a time or as they're throwing themselves out of place on election day committed a crime, will we have to wait for the day to pass? Very strange questions, political issues, extremely political issues. There's a signal, there's evidence that someone's committing a crime. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior are obliged to react immediately, regardless of Mrs Shevked's political opinion. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] I'll continue in a moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u276	All right, here's a line, Mrs. Shevked, if you'd like. No. Okay. We're going to the next question from Mr. Kulkov. Here you are, Mr. Kulkov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u277	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I know that after this question you will still exercise your lecture ability to explain to us how you received operational information, how under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior signed protocols and so on and so forth. The question is very clear. During the election campaign again on 11 July 2021, only two days before that, the mayor of the municipality of Sarnitsa, Mr. Nebi Bozov, was called to the police station in Velingrad to make him protocol not to engage in elections. And now I'm asking, Minister, as in Art. 13 of the Election Code says that organizational and technical preparation and securing of elections is carried out by the Council of Ministers, the district governor and with the assistance of the local municipal administration, and representatives of the sectional election committees, what was the mayor of the municipality supposed to do? He had to hide, go on vacation and let Sarnitsa municipality have no elections. That's what you did, and I told you that the whole of Bulgaria understood what you were doing. It became clear to everyone what you were doing and the little children understood what you were doing, so you may not be answering me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u278	Thank you, Mr. Kulkov. You must answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will answer, regardless of the unwillingness of the Questioner, because this question has been heard from this tribune. If you'd told me in the hallway that he didn't want me to answer his question, that's different. However, a question has already been raised, which is being followed by Bulgarian citizens and voters on TV and on the radio, I would like to clarify because the public representative thus insinuates some doubts about the actions of the Ministry of Interior officials. I've said it and I'll say it again. The employees of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Kulkov, are employees of the law in the Republic of Bulgaria. They serve us all. It's not a bad thing to hate the Home Secretary not to transfer her to these people. I am neither at the time of the election nor at the moment can objectively control what every police officer does where he works. So be a little more careful of those people who deserve respect. You've been blaming them for months from this tribune. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u280	You'll have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u281	As for the mayor of Sarnitsa, Pazardzhik District, I will now read you some things that we did not hear from the MPs, of course, and it is clear why. In the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Pazardzhik is registered a file under a corresponding number, I have it here on 8 July, honourable MPs, on 8 July. A moment ago, we were under the impression that things had developed on election day, and when this person was called, suddenly the opportunity to hold legal elections in a local place collapsed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u282	Read your transcript of what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u283	Yes, indeed, that in the District Prosecutor's Office, honourable Members, the complaints were received in the District Prosecutor's Office, from which she commissioned the examination of the case to the relevant... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u284	Not from the spot, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u285	...a regional police station. The signals submitted and received by the District Prosecutor's Office were prepared by the Ministry of Interior. And it concerns a number of individuals who have prepared and committed criminal activity against the political rights of citizens in the territory of Velingrad Municipality, Rakitovo, Sarnitsa. On July 8, 2021, reports were taken from a number of persons, drawn up..., yes, the time, because you are not comfortable reading now, 24 warning protocols on the grounds of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, 24 of the protocols are drawn up not one, not the mayor of Sarnitsa, 24 protocols and one... [[(noise and lines:]] [[noise and lines: "E," and? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u286	You'll have a chance to say a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u287	...from the warned persons is exactly the mayor of Sarnitsa. You should have asked about the other 23. The file is closed and pay attention on the date... on 9 July the file was sent to the District Prosecutor's Office Pazardzhik. No election day, here should not be a place for speculation, for lies, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u288	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now you have the opportunity to say a line, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, you have missed the holding of plenary. You can't leave the minister holding us like this. If he wants to relax and sleep peacefully tonight, if he wants to come and slap me two slaps as a teacher and know that he has solved the problem. That's disrespectful...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u290	There's no violence in universities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u291	This is disrespectful to the people's representation in such a tone and with such an edification. Please, Mr. Chairman, you're missing out on things. First of all, no one said it was July 11th, I said two days before July 11th, and you confirmed it. You're making suggestions from this tribune. Secondly, no one has blamed any officers of the Ministry of Interior. There are so many conscientious servants to whom we are grateful. We reproach those like you who give silent orders, but, unfortunately, there are also employees who are misled by your auto-signs, and we know what you have done, and again I will repeat, and the whole of Bulgaria understands what you did during the elections and not here to hold us to a tone of who, how and in what way you should be... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u292	You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! He hadn't said one thing, he hadn't said the 11th, and now I'm gonna read what he said. Here it is, this is a Xerox question and a Xerox question is as follows: "Dear Minister of the Interior, during the election campaign for the 11 July parliamentary elections. "Thank you. [[Noise, shouting and lines from DPS. People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u294	Wait, wait, wait, not from the spot, please. Hold on, Mr. Karadaye, hold on a second. Please don't scream, because we need to get the debate into the normal parliamentary tone. Can you wait before I give you the floor? The word is asked for a place, Mr. Karadayi, and no yelling. This is exactly what the text says, but the sentence is not correctly formulated, so it is ambiguous. I want to make that clear so there are no charges. It doesn't say what day the protocol was written, it says what day the elections were, but it doesn't say what day the protocol was signed. That's the problem. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait, this ambiguity in the sentence also causes this tension, but, of course, once we specify this, I give the floor to Mr. Karadayi in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u295	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I appeal to you and to the other MPs present here in this Chamber, to defend the honor and dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of who is this minister who will come here and edify by this tribune of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of who is this minister who will come here and will edify by this tribune of the National Assembly of Bulgaria. [[Applause from DPS]] , including him to be Rashkov. Therefore, Mr Vigenin, please, if you are going to hold a meeting, hold a meeting of the National Assembly, and if you are not going to lead what happened during the elections of you, I do not wish it to happen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u296	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. We have questions, we have answers, I cannot predict either what you will ask or what will be answered, so whenever possible, I call for a more adequate tone as this House requires. I also appeal to you, the MPs who have questions, and to you, Mr. Minister, let us stick to a different tone so as not to create unnecessary tensions. Now we move on to the matter from the MP Mr. Pavlin Krastev. [[Reply.]] He's gone. It's not listed to me. I'm sorry about that. Guner Ahmed is next on the list, come in, Mr. Ahmed. [[Heckling]] Oh, yes, I'm sorry, it's been noted differently. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye, first it's you, then there's the MPs I mentioned, it wasn't intentional. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u297	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rashkov, in order to clarify whether there has been harassment through checks and searches, or there has been no harassment, we ask the next question that we have been alerted about, namely: during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections, I pay attention to you, Mr. Minister, these elections were on 11 July, in the town of Lyaskovets, Lyaskovets Municipality, Veliko Tarnovo District, the home of 74-year-old Ismail Mehmedov was searched. At least that's what they told us. This old man, Mr. Ismail Mehmedov, lives alone in his home. He was left alone after his wife died a month before the cops broke into his house. During the election campaign for the July elections, on 11 July at five o'clock in the morning, police authorities raided his house and conducted a search. After his home was searched, Ismail Mehmedov, who has two stands of the heart, was taken to the police station in Lyaskovets for questioning. He was taken up with explanations, and then he signed a warning protocol. Our question is: on what grounds, on which pre-trial proceedings the search and removal were carried out. Is there a court permit, has the prosecution been informed and what further action is being taken on the case described? I would like to draw attention, Minister, to the fact that on 11 March 2022 on the basis of art. Art. 111, Art. 138 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly I have made a request for the submission of all documents on the case in question, which I have not received until today, and you have not violated the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u298	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadaye, you're asking for an elderly citizen. With respect to him, and of course, with concern for his health, if what you say here is true. But I cannot agree with statements that are thrown out of the stands of the National Assembly, which do not correspond to the truth. The man you're asking about hasn't been searched at all. Secondly, as far as his home is concerned, as I recall, he was in the village of Dobri partition, Lyaskovets, I hope not to be wrong, but no procedural investigative action has been carried out in his home. The question is, how did police officers violate his civil rights?! How did they bully him when there were no acts like that committed?! However, there is something that deserves attention, and I will now share with you. We have an informant in this case who has reported that this citizen you are interested in, along with others in the center of the village, will have to quote simply This information has gone to the employees of the Ministry of Interior and they have taken corrective action. This is the occasion. Not that they had coffee there, but because there was a conversation, from which such information was obtained, such a discussion. I know some people don't like that much, that this kind of information goes to the D.A.'s office and the police, but that's the way it works. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You don't know anything, that's the trouble, if you knew... On this basis, this citizen is invited to the police...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u300	It's not a pub to invite him to the pub!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u301	...where a written report was taken from him, and on this occasion it was drawn up with regard to him a warning protocol. And now, in a spirit of correctness, I'm going to say one more thing, and I'm going to finish with it. Not only in Gorna Oryahovitsa District, but also in other settlements in Veliko Tarnovo District at this time, July 2021, have not been formed, have not been conducted and criminal proceedings have not been completed because no evidence has been collected on them. It's the truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u302	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It deserves attention to this case, because the signal we have is that at five o'clock in the morning there is an invasion of Mr. Ismail Mehmed's home. Mr. Rashkov says there is no such thing. It's worth attention! Personally, I will check this case, I will get to the respective settlement, Mr. Rashkov, and I will meet Mr. Ismail Mehmedov in question. But from now on, you did not answer a question I asked you..................... whether I will eventually and when I will get the documents that I wanted on the grounds of art. Art. 111, Art. 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They are requested on 11 March 2022. We are patient people, we will wait. But I'd like to summarize. From all that you are hearing, ladies and gentlemen, and we hear what this is about, and the way in which the questions are not answered, I will try to quote Mr. Rashkov. Every quote of a medium-intelligent Bulgarian citizen and of the whole of Bulgaria has become clear, but it is evident only to Mr. Rashkov that not every inspection, invitation to the police, talk, search, arrest, warning protocol is harassment, but in any case it is clear that someone has given instructions to carry out harassment through warning protocols, through searches, through arrests, through invitations to lectures, through interrogations and so on, things that we hear not only today here. I therefore call on the MPs to be concerned and to defend democracy and the rule of law in Bulgaria and to protect Bulgarian citizens from abuse of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u304	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? No. We're moving on to Mr. Gunner Ahmed's question. Here you go, Mr. Ahmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u305	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The questions are clear, the answers too, but before I ask myself the question, Mr. Minister, the reason you're here every week answering questions that you don't like is not us, it's you. It is dictated by your instructions which during the election process of the last two parliamentary choices you gave to your employees. And with regard to employees, in the line I will take an opinion on what you said. So my specific question concerns Silistra District, Dulovo Municipality, Cherkovna village, where during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021, Jemaj Mithat Muhydin, an activist of the DPS, was questioned by police for possible vote buying. It's also the owner of a grocery store. A warning protocol has been signed. As my questions are: on what basis is he warned, whether there have been signals filed against the person, or if there are operational data of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and possibly what are the follow-up to the person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u306	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. I just want to inform the MPs that parliamentary control will continue until 2:10, so is the extension. You have the floor, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm told I don't like questions. Some kind of free interpretation is that. On the contrary, it is true that I like the questions very much. They give me the opportunity to oppose the facts of the lies in plenary. That's why I like the questions. In addition, I have to say very frankly..... they do not bother me at all, because they are of my specialty, of my profession and for me they are even in a way misplaced. But such a political approach you have chosen, so you have done, I am a minister, I am not politically committed to your political party. Now we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u308	Go to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u309	Thank you. Of course. How do they allow such deviations to do. I think it's not just their right and theirs alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u310	That's right, I warned you that when you made such a detour in the matter...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u311	If they challenge, they'll get an answer, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u312	...receivs an answer. That's true, but let's just hold on to it as long as we can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u313	Here, this question is no different from the previous ones. It is the same that pressure and harassment has been imposed. One more thing I will read again, once again, that this is about an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. A further claim that he was questioned about buying votes. Well, if there's data, he'll be questioned about buying votes. On every television screen during the election campaign it says this: "Buying and selling votes is a crime. " - You, as a political party, do not want to give any information about it if there are such cases. You don't have that kind of immunity. I'm sorry. Change the law, make the law so that for sympathizers and members of the DPS the law doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u314	Mr. Rashkov, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u315	With regard to the person you are interested in, for 11 July I want to read some of the information I have, unlike what is said here without documents, without anything. Naked claims. There has been data in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Silistra that this person, who is from the village of Cherkovna, the municipality of Dulovo has behaved, there are data about him who have given reason to conclude that he is carrying out activities, actions that are directed against the political rights of citizens, that is, other citizens freely expressing their will in the electoral process and on the day, of course, at the elections. And since the Ministry of Interior services in such an election period also took into account the instructions of the Prosecutor General of the Republic, I showed these instructions last week, they acted precisely and in accordance with the instructions of the Prosecutor General. Perhaps they don't like you either, challenge them, then Geshev was the Attorney General. Argu with them, I can't argue with them and no one can argue with them. It's the law. Thus, in relation to this citizen there was evidence of events in relation to the elections in this direction and indeed a protocol was drawn up on the basis of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act with a view to possibly preventing it from committing this crime. I've only got one copy here, Mr. Chairman, because it's important. [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u316	Yeah, but the weather...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u317	By a senior official in Silistra District. See what the man writes: "Faces of the structures of the parliamentary group of the DPS, as well as their supporters, such as from other civil or party structures, participants in the preparation and holding of elections for the National Assembly, have not been called "because you are using the "advancing" in the respective departments of the Ministry of Interior "Silistra," nor have they been forced to sign the warning protocols with unclear and contradictory content, with which claims you are constantly pouring on us. I think that's enough. That is to say, with these questions, senior officials in the respective regions of the country are starting to think whether tomorrow, by taking power, you will not fire them from work because they are doing their job under Law and Constitution. That's what you do with these questions, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u318	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ahmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u319	Dear Minister, I told you the previous time that you are not the Ministry of Interior. You are only the hat of the Ministry of Interior. And with regard to the specific response, we of the DPS have never blasphemed the employees of the Ministry of Interior. That should be clear to you and to everyone in this room and outside this room. We have due respect for all institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. And when you talk about DPS, and you make suggestions, maybe you should be more informed. I can also give you a specific example. Last time I told you that I was personally present at the signing of alert protocols, but I didn't tell you, and I didn't want to say from this tribune that during the last election, we signaled personally on phone 112, provided witnesses who would admit what had happened and had the only person convicted in Silistra County for buying votes. You, of this tribune, suggest that the DPS did not comply with the relevant rules. Well, it's not like that. The only verdict in Silistra County is our fault for the DPS, and I've never heard from you... In fact, when we said Silistra, you made other suggestions regarding polling stations for people with disabilities, and you do not even know that there are less than 1% in Silistra district. And in conclusion, I argue that the Ministry of Interior also works with lists, operational data. In the next election there will be operational data against other colleagues and others against others. What does "opportunity" mean? This is such a broad concept that, as you please, you use these operational data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u320	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. A hole, Mr. Secretary? No. We have time for one more question. Mrs. Fatme Ramadan has the floor to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, my question concerns Bilal Shaban, who is the local chairman of the DPS in the village of Chernograd, Aytos municipality. On 11 July 2021 in the village of Chernograd, Aytos municipality, Burgas district of Bilal Shaban, who is a local chairman and authorised representative of the party, two warning protocols were drawn up for him on election day. The first is for a video made by him by the secretary of a sectary electoral commission by another party, which controls the vote of a voter, and for the case there is a complaint at the Regional Election Commission. And the second is to explain the case. With our intention to investigate and illuminate each particular case, as you already know, and on the basis of art. 91 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: on what legal basis and in what is the availability of sufficient data to come up with the drawing up of the warning protocols, two in number? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u322	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mrs. Ramadan! I cannot link the claim of pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior, as is your claim in the matter, during the election campaign to the fact that I have. I don't see any logical connection. I hope by reading a few things now you agree with me. On 11 July around 12:30, a police officer, guarding the relevant section, reported a dispute between a member of the section and the advocate. I think that's the citizen you're asking about. And a file has been registered with a corresponding number from the same year on this occasion on the occasion of this altercation that took place there. It is true that this man was filmed with a cell phone, which was spotted by a member of the section, and these verbal altercations were practically understood as an opportunity for a more serious conflict on election day. I mean, every moment, if not what happened, is a violation of public order during the elections. And in order not to come to that, so as not to allow it on election day in the voting section to violate the public order, this person has a warning protocol drawn up for that purpose. For that purpose! The same signal was found to have been submitted to the Regional Election Commission in Burgas. From the verification carried out, as well as on the basis of what has been checked in the Regional Election Commission in Burgas, no evidence of crimes and violations related to the political rights of citizens has been established. The inspection materials have been reported to the District Prosecutor's Office in Burgas, the territorial department so I'm counting on it here, Aytos, and the monitoring prosecutor has issued a refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings. That's the case. What pressure and harassment are we talking about? It's just that preventive measures have been taken not to make anything more serious there in the sectional committee. Because the police officer doesn't stay inside the polls section, he has no right to stand there. Apparently, he was invited and asked for some kind of cooperation. That's what the police officer did. Personally, I see no reason to even put this issue here from the platform of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u324	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Ramadan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u325	Dear Minister! The person concerned has been summoned by your subordinates and detained for three hours for filming the Secretary of the Selection Election Commission commit irregularities. I ask you the following question: is there a protocol drawn up by the Secretary of the Selection Election Commission, or is the archin double? The man is an advocate, the party's attorney. Apparently, Mr. Minister, the coalition chaos is giving birth to madness, and one of these nonsense is your appointment as minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-10.u326	Mrs. Ramadan! Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. Ms. Ramadan, with your question we are closing the questions to Minister Rashkov and today's parliamentary control. Thank you for your participation. The next regular meeting on Wednesday, 15 June 2022, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
