ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u1	Good morning! Colleagues, please register. There are 124 MPs registered, there is a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, the draft weekly programme is as follows: "1." Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Retire from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva on 8 July 2022. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden. Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 July 2022 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Importer: Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022 4. Draft Law on ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of intra-Community trade in goods. Importer: Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. Adopted at first vote on 8 June 2022. 7. Draft decision on the conversion of the faculty based in Veliko Tarnovo city of Vasil Levski National Military University and amending the decision of the National Assembly on the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education at Vasil Levski National Military University. Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Gambling Act. Importers: Deyan Petkov and a group of MPs on 17 June 2022; and Lubomir Karimanski, Iva Miteva and Andrei Mihaylov on 11 July 2022. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. Adopted in the first vote on 9 March 2022. 10. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers: Toshko Yordanov and Victoria Vasileva on 24 June 2022 11. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importers: Plamen Abrovski and Rosen Kosturkov on 13 May 2022 12. First vote on the Bill amending the Health Act. Importers: Silvi Kirilov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2022 13. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Importer: Desislava Atanasova on 16 June 2022; and election of President of the National Assembly. 14. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the fuel manufacturer Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2022; and Draft Decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances related to an increase in the price of crude oil purchased by Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. Importers: Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs on 8 June 2022. 15. Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021. Importer: Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021 and 31 March 2022. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 16. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 21 April 2022. Adopted at first vote on 8 June 2022. Point 1 for Thursday 14 July 2022 17. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers: Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022; Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2022; Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 25 May 2022; the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. Point 1 for Friday, 15 July 2022 18. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Colleagues, please vote on the draft weekly programme presented by me. They voted 220 MPs: 139 against 20, abstention 61. The program project has been adopted. Colleagues, there have been three proposals made under art. 47, para. 3 which will be put to the vote. The first is with importer Mr. Zhecho Stankov: as a point on the agenda of the National Assembly to include a draft decision to establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning gas pipelines for the transport of natural gas from the Russian Federation..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please, voting mode. Vote 218 MPs: 193, against 10, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is from the MPs Andrei Chorbanov, Ivan Klisurski, Andrey Mihailov, Toshko Yordanov and Silvi Kirilov as a point in the Weekly Programme to include a hearing of the Minister of Health in relation to the changed epidemic situation concerning the incidence of COVID-19. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a procedural proposal, if it might not be this week. We withdraw the offer for this week, as I understand that Professor Serbenova is not here in Sofia. Let's do it next week, if we can.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. The motion is adjourned. I would ask you to re-submit it purely formally and we will put it to the vote next week. The third proposal is from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov: to include in the Weekly Programme a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Radio and Television as a first item on the agenda of the week..................................................................................... That's how the proposal was formulated. Colleagues, please, vote mode. They voted 220 MPs: for 82, against 37, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We're revoting, colleagues. Vote 222 MPs: 86, against 23, abstention 113. It's not accepted. Colleagues, before we proceed with item one of the agenda... [[Heckling]] Are you guys on the program, guys? Mrs. Atanasova, come in. Just to clear the program, colleagues, and then we'll move on. There are two messages I should introduce you to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making two procedural proposals. Of course, they will be put to the vote separately. The first, Mr. Chairman, is t. 14 that is: Project of a decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the producer of fuels Lukoil Neftohim Burgas., submitted by me and a group of MPs, as well as the same draft for a decision for the establishment of a temporary commission submitted by Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs, to be so. Five on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u5	Okay. What about the second procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u6	The second procedural proposal is the point which, on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 was submitted and adopted in the Weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly, namely for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Verification of All Facts and Circumstances in connection with the construction of the Balkan Stream, as well as the gas connection with Greece and, accordingly, the delay, to take place. Six on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Kirilov, are you also in connection with the program? [[Heckling]] Let Mr. Kirilov and then we'll hear from you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Professor Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a procedural proposal. 12 The first vote of the Draft Law amending the Health Act, which concerns temporary disability of parents of quarantined children aged 6 to 12 years, should be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 on tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u9	Thank you, Professor Kirilov. Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor. Then there's Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal is: t. 14, which is related to Lukoil Neftohim Burgas and we find it extremely important to become a point. 6 on the agenda as t. 5 is the Law on the Judiciary and we find it extremely high priority. That is why we are calling for this to become a t. 6 and support us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I suggest you. 10, which is "Projects of decisions on changes in Standing Committees" to be e.g. 7 if the other proposals pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, any other procedures regarding the Programme to proceed to a vote? I won't. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Desislava Atanasova. 14 of the weekly programme to become ct. 5. Vote 227 MPs: 116 against 73, abstention 38. The motion is accepted. There's a request for a re-vote. Colleagues, we're overreacting. Vote 228 MPs: 119, against 75, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. Accordingly, I will not put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev. I shall put to the vote Mrs. Atanasova's proposal included in the order of art. 47, para. 3 point to be t. 6 of the weekly program. Vote 226 MPs: 118, against 73, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Sylvi Kirilov. 12 to be t. 1 for Thursday. Mr. Kirilov, the point that is fixed as first for Thursday to become second, fixed for Thursday? At present, we have adopted a decision. 1, fixed for Thursday, is the Value Added Tax Act. That is, fellow Members, the proposal is as follows: as the first item fixed for Thursday, to be the Health Act and the second one fixed for Thursday to be the Value Added Tax Act. Please, voting mode. Vote 227 MPs: 205, against 13, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Finally, the proposal made by Mr. Yordanov t. 10 of the weekly Programme, namely the Draft Decision on Changes to Permanent Committees, is to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7. Mr. Yordanov, t. 7 is now a t. 8 with the changes made. For t. 7 to stay, or t. Eight?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u14	Point 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u15	Let's be t. 8 of the weekly program. Please, voting mode. Vote 226 MPs: 119, against 74, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I should introduce you to two messages, then Mr. Atanas Slavov for a group declaration. Mr. Chorbanov, you? And you for a group statement. The first message, colleagues, is in the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria has adopted Decision No 462 of 2022 authorising armed forces from the land component of NATO member states to cross and reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of implementation of the Alliance's enhanced vigilance activities as part of the measures approved by the North Atlantic Council in response to a crisis. This decision of the Council of Ministers confirms the commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria to NATO's collective defence and creates conditions for a timely organization to ensure the activities of increased vigilance, as well as to help ensure the national security of the country. The provisions of the Law on the Decision of the Council of Ministers were also notified to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 11 July 2022, with entry No 47-202-00-46, and was made available to the Defence Committee. On 7 July 2022, the National Assembly of the Economic Social Council delivered an opinion on the topic "Ratification of the ILO Convention No 190/2019 on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the Field of Labour." By letters of the ISC, the material is addressed and provided to the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the opinion was given to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the European Union Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor for a group statement. Then Professor Chorbanov for a declaration and then you, Mr. Dobrev, also for a declaration by a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria Yesterday, July 12, 2022, it was 31 years since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which, along with the strengthening of the fundamental values, principles and institutions of constitutional democracy, left the incomplete model for guaranteeing independence and accountability of the judiciary and prosecution in the country. Also yesterday, the Constitutional Court ruled with a decision that strongly supports the need to introduce parliamentary accountability of the chief prosecutor to both the constitutional and legal committee and the plenary. The Constitutional Court unanimously adopted that the mechanism envisaged in the provision fully corresponds to the constitutional role assigned by each judicial authority to implement state policy in justice by ensuring the functioning of the independent authorities in the conditions of interaction, balance and control to achieve the objectives in the relevant sphere of government. We are also pleased that the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria has made a significant contribution to the introduction of this form of parliamentary accountability of the Prosecutor General in the regulations of the Forty-fiveth and Forty-sixth National Assembly, from where it was adopted in these Rules. Yesterday's decision by the Constitutional Court is an important step in validating precisely the parliamentary accountability of the Attorney General. At the same time, last week, however, we saw how the proceedings ended before the Supreme Judicial Council, initiated by the Minister of Justice, requesting the release of the Attorney General for specific violations and undermining the prestige of the judiciary. The Attorney General maintained his post, but the Supreme Judicial Council finally lost its authority in public. A bill has already been drawn up in the Ministry of Justice guaranteeing an independent investigation of the Prosecutor General in accordance with European standards and recommendations. However, the lack of a real opportunity to seek the responsibility of the Prosecutor General and his removal under the constitutional order in force can hardly be compensated only by changes in the laws. A procedure is necessary that does not depend on the hierarchy of loyalty and conjunctural ties of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Such a complete procedure for seeking the responsibility of the Attorney General is possible only through constitutional change. Ideas for reform of the judiciary and prosecution system are an essential part of the political identity of the Democratic Bulgaria from its creation. Despite the limited opportunities to implement the necessary constitutional reforms in the structure and governance of the judiciary in the current political context, we will not give up this fundamental strategic objective. We will continue to defend it in this and in the next parliaments, until in our Bulgaria the rule of law and constitutional democracy are established on a firm basis and become an irreversible choice of our entire society. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u17	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Excuse me, Professor Chorbanov, Mr. Karadayi in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u18	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. Mr. Slavov here speaks of the rule of law. The rule of law begins with respect for the Constitution and the laws in force and where necessary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u19	Mr. Karadaye, please, the procedure for me, let's not be concerned with the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u20	One moment, it's right on you. And when necessary according to the MPs, amendments to the laws and to the Constitution shall be introduced. Mr. Chairman, you should have reminded Mr. Slavov that from January we have proposed to all parliamentary groups amendments to the Constitution so that the Attorney General can be investigated. But Mr. Slavov, if you wanted the Attorney General to be investigated...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u21	Mr. Karadaye, please don't take any part in this declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u22	...to whom we have serious obstructions and we have had to consider and together submit the relevant amendments to the Constitution in order to be considered and to make the relevant changes,...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u23	Mr. Karadayi, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u24	...and not only with slogans here from the National Assembly stands to indicate who is wrong and who is right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Make notes to him that it is done by tabling texts, and the texts are sitting with you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u25	Mr. Karadayi, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u26	...from January in black and white. We left them for you. Thank you. [[Applause from The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u27	Mr. Karadayi, no one has the right to take part in a declaration, including the President of the National Assembly. So let's not break the rules. Professor Chorbanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Declaration by the political party's parliamentary group There is such a people in connection with the current epidemic situation concerning the spread of COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, with concern and concern we are monitoring the attempts of the health authorities in the country, hotly assisted by a massive one-way media campaign for renovation, rebranding and reanimation of the horse hysteria. The absolute fact is that the new subvariants of COVID-19 Omicron are significantly more virulent and bypassing any type of certification documents, which is the significant factor for the relatively large number of positive cases. It is also a fact that the very slight course of the infection, with a large number of people being asymptomatic, making the virus unrealistically dangerous to public health. Suggestions that restrictive measures are urgently needed and masks in public places will lead to a strong escalation of public discontent based on the apparent non-compliance with these measures with the real severity of the infection in the huge number of cases. Of course, all risk categories of people, such as adults, those with chronic diseases and immunodeficiency conditions, must take the necessary measures to protect and limit contacts in parallel with the adequate readiness of the health system. However, all these factors should not be extrapolated over the entire population in the absence of such a need for really sick people. We demand that the health authorities make efforts on adequate treatment in updating the therapy protocols, as well as informing risk groups how to protect themselves from possible contamination, instead of introducing ubiquitous restrictive measures of any nature. Media suggestions in favour of introducing measures will complicate the complex situation and tense environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u29	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Declaration on behalf of GERB-SDS parliamentary group. The failure of this government is most evident in the field of gas. The first thing you did was destroy Bulgargaz. From the most profitable and most stable enterprise by the end of last year with 99 million profit and zero liabilities today, this company has nearly 400 million liabilities, a supplementary government guarantee of 150 million. euros in the state budget and God knows how much you lost. We'll see if we can find them in the office. What was the purpose of bringing the intermediaries back to the gas. That's what happened. Since the first day of the shift of Nikolai Pavlov in early February, gas has been bought by brokers with commissions and with more than 100 million. lv. a month higher price for Bulgarian consumers. And when we said the price, I had high hopes in the chief of the cabinet of Prime Minister Lena Borislavova, as she said on May 15th that Bulgaria would receive gas at a four times lower price than European exchanges. And it is referred to by the newspaper 24 hours. But do you know what the result is, fellow Members? In just five months from this same February, the price of gas has jumped from 109 BGN. and 88 ct. BGN 186. and 47th, i.e. the increase is 69.7%. Seventy percent increase in the last five months! If we take the first day of management of this cabinet, the increase in the price of gas is 82%. Moreover, a drastic increase in the price of gas has no left-hand compensation. In fact, in order to be quite correct, we have to say that the State Budget Act allows the removal of excise duty on gas, which is 60 cents per megawatt hour. Do you know what this means, fellow Members, that the state allowed businesses and consumers not to pay 0.003 parts of the gas price. So the price of gas is 186 BGN. and 47 C.E. and 60 cents of excise duty must be added to that price. The state said: we will now help the business, he will not pay these 60 pennies. So the price of gas is going to be 0.003 parts less than it should be. The gas is expensive, but it's gone. Thirty-two percent is the price increase from this month alone, from the beginning of this month. And notice, on July 12th, KEWRC says what the price will be from July 1st. Okay, from July 1st to July 12th, business works, gas consumes, methane stations sell methane without knowing what the price would be. Maybe they were selling at the old prices. Who will compensate them for a decision that you retroactively make, breaking all laws, 12 days after the price has already happened?! That is, on July 12th, you decide what the price of gas will be from July 1st. And notice, colleagues, this violation of the law isn't the first time you've done it. The same thing happened in March. On March 7th, KEWRC said how much will be the price of gas from March 1st. On May 13, KEWRC said how much will be the price from May 1st, that is, on May 13th, we say how much it will be from May 1st. On June 10, KEWRC said how much will be the price from June 1st. On July 12, as already mentioned, KEWRC said how much will be the price from July 1st. So every month the business starts to work, consumes gas, and by the middle of the month you tell them what the increase of this gas is. And, yes, an increase. If it were a discount, it wouldn't be such a big deal. And an increase, fellow Members, of 82.2% on the first day of this government. Since the first day of this government of 102 leva. and 33 C.E. Until today, the price increase is 82.2%. The bigger problem, as I've already mentioned, is that the gas is gone. Not only is it expensive, it's gone! We have all heard from the head of the Bulgargaz. During the Energy Commission, subsequently confirmed by the services that no gas supplies were provided for August. Do you know what this means, colleagues? It means that a restrictive regime should be introduced in Bulgaria. Mr. Stoynev knows exactly what I'm talking about. That is, we must, the state must, the Minister must judge, the Council of Ministers must decide for August which enterprise will work and what will not. Will Toplofication bring warm water to the citizens? The companies that use gas from the industry which of these enterprises will stop because we do not have enough gas. And this problem, colleagues, is not just for August. The same is the situation for September, even worse the situation for October. I won't even mention November and December. And for next year, there's no gas other than the Azeri contract. That is, after September, from October onwards, and the following years Bulgaria does not have 3 billion ccs of gas, and there are 1 billion ccs of gas. That is, two thirds of the consumption in Bulgaria should be limited if urgent action is not taken. There's no gas supply contract. I'm not even talking about long term. No tankers, no contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u31	There's a contract!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u32	There is a contract on the Azeri gas, as I have already mentioned, for a third of the quantities, Mr. Gurov. And you must bear that responsibility. You should be ashamed not to tell me here from a place and to claim false truths. You don't have any contracts and you don't have gas. You're leaving the country in a gas crisis. And to tell you the truth, I personally, this is my personal position. I very much hope you'll make a government so that you can subdue this pot you've built. Because it would be extremely unfair to escape now and leave the state in this chaos. Let the president clean up your mess in the literal sense of the word. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Where is next year's contract for 2023? Where is the gas for August, September, October, November, December? What are the businesses that you will stop?! Why didn't the gas get four times cheaper and it got 82 percent more expensive?! How much is next month's increase?! Why, on the tenth number, which was three days ago, did you, with your new leadership, fail to comply with the law and submit a forecast for the price of gas from August 1st? Why didn't they bring the gas price again from August 1st? Shall I tell you why? First of all, because you don't have enough. And second of all, because you have to say from now on that the price is going to go up another 20 percent. With you the price rises every month by 20.. 30%. Every month! For this it is 32%, for the last five months it is 69% and from December to 82%. This is what you are, colleagues, energy policy. Now that's the chaos you've caused at the cost of gas. And again, yes, you've given 60 pennies to 0.003 parts will pay for the state. That's your support for the business....zero leva compensation for the expensive price of gas. If it wasn't for the opposition in the face of GERB, there would be no compensation for the price of electricity. Because until the last moment, our proposals were rejected. The business was now going to pay 750 BGN. And most of it would have gone bankrupt this month. For that you should at least thank the opposition. But the opposition in the gas case didn't save you just because we're hoping you'll take it yourself. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, we move on to item one of the agenda: THE TERMINATION OF THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE, THE REPRESENTATION OF MRS. VICTORIA Vasileva. There's a work project that I'm going to read to you: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva as MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. I mean, does anyone want to take an attitude? Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sure my decision for some of you was a surprise. I'm sure another part of you might have been shocking. But there's a third group of people that aren't either. And these are the people who know me. I have always been guided by my belief that politics is done with brains and hearts, not elbows, teeth and claws. And if the lack of mind can be compensated in one way or another, then the lack of heart is never. I thank all those who treated me with respect, with understanding and with collegiality. You'll have my respect, too. What I want you to know for sure is that this decision I made alone, with full consciousness of what I'm doing. It would be nice if we could understand once and for all that makes us successful people, not only politicians, is when we forget about me, but start talking to us with.............................................................................. So today I don't say goodbye because I say goodbye only to my own illusions. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS,]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Colleagues, I'm calling off the discussion. Mr. Vigenin wants the floor, too. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am using the case that some discussion has started after all to thank Victoria Vasileva for our joint work, not only in this but also in the previous, albeit short parliaments. She's one of the people you can really count on. Her word didn't turn into two. When she made a commitment, she did it, and working with her was really good, operational, and like she said, she was one of the people who had both heart and mind. And I hope that this act of hers, as she said, is perhaps a short break and very soon we will see her again in the front lines because Bulgarian politics needs people like her. Thank you, Victoria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to express my gratitude to Mrs. Victoria Vasileva for the work and for the time we were together. What she is doing has shown that in the parliamentary group, people are free and there is no barracks in which anyone who thinks differently is shot. Things that were said by other people about this. And the other thing I would like to say is that Victoria Vassileva, as a free man, does as she judges, but acts with dignity, leaving the National Assembly, unlike some others who have acted not as male as she does. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, would anyone else like to take a stand on this point? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, and from our parliamentary group you will hear good words, although we have probable reason to remember previous parliaments in which the tone was particularly sharpened between our two parliamentary groups. I hope that the lessons that everyone takes in his way are lasting. You have appreciated people by their personal qualities, perhaps you have appreciated the debate and its level, perhaps this also contributes to making your decision. I won't discuss your personal arguments. But I would like to congratulate you on leaving the parliamentary group, and you are also leaving Parliament precisely because you obviously do not wish to abuse the trust of your constituents. And here I will make contact with others who have left their parliamentary group. Not those of your fellow Members who are sitting on the last banks in plenary, from your parliamentary group, but I will talk about another colleague, in direct contact with my name. I am talking about Mrs. Elena Guncheva, who left her parliamentary group on the pretext that I personally have a personal fault for her leaving. And then, and there is still a number of speculations of whatever nature... that one of the opposition parliamentary groups is very well partnered with another parliamentary group and its chairman, and that is why Mrs. Guncheva's decision is conditioned. I would like to tell both my and our voters of our parliamentary group, you all, and the voters of the parliamentary group that this is absolutely not true. And if Guncheva Hanım had...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u41	Mrs. Atanasova, we are discussing Mrs. Vasileva's resignation. Let's show some respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But you can't stop my speech. [[Laughter]] because the occasion for leaving a parliamentary group can be any, mostly personal, and the reasons may be different. But when someone publicly exercises on the name of one or two parliamentary groups and directly implicates their chairmen in backroom arrangements, you must give me the opportunity to highlight my speech. So let's cut to the chase. Much more meaningful and true position, Mrs. Vasileva, than I think the immoral position of someone who leaves his parliamentary group with false pretenses, with false pretenses, with untruth, and then in less than 48 hours he changes his mind. In this sense, I congratulate you on what you have done. And the unworthy will be judged after us, and history will give its appreciation. Good luck, Mrs. Vassileva! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not such a common practice, honourable Members, when leaving our colleague to say good words. And it is good to say them because it is important for both the person and the prestige of the institution. Perhaps here I am the only one who worked with Mrs. Vassileva when she was a member of the Thirty-eighth National Assembly, and as I recall, she was the youngest member of this National Assembly. So I remember her work from when some of you were in kindergarten or even smaller. But time flies anyway. I am expressing the satisfaction of my and our parliamentary group from working in several short parliaments, two last year, now we will see how short or long this will be, but I am expressing satisfaction. Thank you for your constructive work at difficult, tense moments, and we regret that parliamentaryism has lost a good parliamentarians for the time being. We hope you'll be back. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Guys, are there any other speeches? Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, I have had the honour of working with you during the Conference on the Future of Europe in the Committee on Foreign Policy. It is a fact, as has been said by this tribune, that you have serious experience, especially in the foreign policy of Bulgaria. It's been an honor working with you. Thank you. Bon voyage!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I told Victoria the other day what I thought. But I also want to wish her all the best from the stands and thank her. We worked in three violent parliaments, went through fire and ice with it. But what I appreciate is that you can always talk to her with arguments and with reason. The big picture was never lost because too often we lose her in emotions. And I'm sure knowing Victoria as a man of character and resources she won't be bored without us. The question is that we, as much time remains for this Parliament, conclude that we are losing a colleague with whom we can talk, and to what extent this conversation is possible here at all. Because I think that at least what I see at least the reason why she chooses to leave here is precisely that of breaking up the possibility of talking on the big picture, on the long-term priorities. Today we have to conclude how we will continue... whether in this, in the next parliament, but how the political conversation continues even when we are opponents, even when we are in different positions, because this is not a conversation for us and our feelings.. this is a conversation for Bulgaria. Again to thank Victoria that this conversation about Bulgaria could always be held and I am sure that we will continue. Thanks. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the draft of a decision, which I read, which suspends the authority of the National Representative Victoria Dimitrova Vasileva. Vote 179 MPs: 162, against 5, abstention 12. That's how the offer is accepted. Mrs. Vassileva, to tell you the same thing, you have my respect. You won it for those few months we worked together. I wish you good luck in your new endeavors. I hope we'll see each other again. We'll work together again. [[Extreme applause. Victoria Vasileva comes out of the hall.]] Colleagues, we're moving on to item two of the agenda... For a statement from a group of men, Mr. Krum Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On today's date, July 13th, 31 years ago in issue 56 of the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria is now published the current Bulgarian Constitution. Adopted the previous day, it begins with the words coming out from under the feather of the immortal Valeri Petrov, which shape her preamble. I remind you of them because they must illuminate every moment of our parliamentary activity: We, the MPs of the Seventh Grand National Assembly, in our quest to express the will of the Bulgarian people, declaring our allegiance to universal human values: freedom, peace, humanism, equality, justice and tolerance; by putting the rights of the person, its dignity and security into a supreme principle; aware of our inalienable duty to protect the national and state unity of Bulgaria, we declare our determination to create a democratic, rule of law and social state, which we accept this Constitution for. These few words, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, represent for the Bulgarian people what Magna Charter represents for the British peoples; what the Declaration of Human Rights and the citizen represents for the French; what the Universal Declaration of Human Rights represents for the world. That's our credo! And because very often there is talk of civilisational choice here, this is the Bulgarian civilisational choice in these few words. They are further developed in the Constitution, at which its first parts actually constitute a Charter of Human Rights, but they are much more... they are the moment when we have to read all others. And it's worth remembering. Moreover, the Constitution, which we unanimously honor today, is not easily accepted only 31 years ago. On the contrary, the Grand National Assembly is meeting in a turbulent environment. The constitution is signed against the background of protests, of palace camps, of strike committees. And yet she passed the most serious test of the time test. What has not served her the Bulgarian political life of this Constitution during these 31 years???? What crisis did not happen, what votes of trust, of mistrust, what types of coalitions?! But our Constitution didn't allow it to fall into a vacuum for a second, into timelessness, into powerlessness. And that makes it an outstanding legal document! Our Constitution, of course, can also be spoken of at the cost of its changes, as long as we follow the procedure recorded in it and the spirit of the few words that I have allowed myself to remind you of. This Constitution and this civilisational choice were a common case in which, however, we must distinguish our predecessors from the great MPs, and allow me to distinguish among them the representatives of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, who at that moment proved state-level thinking and vision in the future. That Seventh Great Parliament left this Constitution, which paved our way both to the European Union and to the subsequent developments and strengthened parliamentary democracy in Bulgaria. However, this battle for parliamentaryism, for parliamentary democracy, for freedom is never finally won. Let each and every one of us who are in this Parliament, those who will come next, not forget it. If they forget it, to recall the words of Valeri Petrov they are at the beginning of the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We move on to item two of the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE Itineraries TO THE SEVERNOATLANTIC AGREEMENT ON THE RECOGNITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND AND THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There is a report from the Foreign Policy Committee. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal for Ms. Elena Dimitrova's admissions to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u53	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission thus made. They voted 123 MPs: 117, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. The Commission's report is now available, Mrs. Lyubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Law on the ratification of Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden No 47-202-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 8 July 2022, the Foreign Policy Committee examined a draft Law on ratification of the Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, No 47-202-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2022. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mrs. Asya Davidova, Director of the Security Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On 18 May 2022, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden deposited their membership applications on the basis of intensive internal political discussions in both countries and increasing public support in favour of their accession to NATO. The accession of both sides is an expression of their sovereign choice and is not directed against third parties. At the NATO summit in Madrid on 28 June 2022, the allies decided to invite Finland and Sweden to become members of the Alliance and agreed to sign the protocols for their accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. The expectations are that the accession of the two countries to NATO will contribute to strengthening security in Europe and will have a beneficial effect on the implementation of NATO's main tasks.................................. and crisis management and security through co-operation. Their NATO membership will send a clear political message about NATO's strength and relevance and the validity of Bulgaria's traditional open-door policy. It will also open up opportunities for enhanced bilateral cooperation in the field of defence. Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden shall be complementary to the North Atlantic Treaty. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria it is necessary to ratify them by the National Assembly. They will enter into force after each of the North Atlantic Treaty Parties notify the Government of the United States of America as depositary of the implementation of internal procedures. With the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, NATO members will become 32 on the day of the award of the instrument of ratification in Washington for accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. On the basis of the reasons put forward and the subsequent vote by 11 votes, 1 vote against......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Lubenova. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear colleagues! I am first, and I hope indeed by a large majority today that this law will be voted on, this ratification to be voted on, and I am glad that the Bulgarian Parliament is one of the first to vote on this protocol. If there is something, albeit a little positive, although there can be no talk of positivism in a war and in an aggression, it is that instead of weakening NATO and the democratic world and security in the region, actually Putin strengthens NATO. Just a few months ago, we could not imagine that Sweden and Finland, with such great support among the public and among their citizens, would go first to apply, and then to become the 31st, 32nd ally in NATO very quickly. While I have had the honour of being a foreign minister, and our entire government, and I am glad that Bulgaria not only our government, but consistently over the years, has had a really permanent and long-term foreign policy, expressing that each country, its government and its people decide themselves which alliances to join. The fact that they are the neighbours of someone, in the case of the Russian Federation, cannot prejudge their decisions. Unfortunately, over the years, we have had a hesitant policy among the allies themselves "Let's be honest "Central Eastern Europe has always stood up to the principle of NATO's open doors. That's not how it was with some of the other allies. However, I am happy that this opinion has quickly changed and very quickly all the allies, although with small peripets, agreed that Sweden and Finland will become allies very soon. I very much hope that this policy will continue in relation to other countries that have long been waiting, such as Georgia and Ukraine. I understand for myself that maybe right now is not the time, but I really believe and hope that the next Bulgarian parliaments will continue, depending on how long the life of this, but also the following Bulgarian parliaments, I am not talking about just one and the next Bulgarian governments to continue with this policy. So, colleagues, our group will support this ratification. I believe that these two sides will make the Union much stronger and much more complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Belev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Zaharieva, I'm personally solidarity with everything you've said. Indeed, today's vote would indicate that two such powerful economic states are joining an alliance in which we have long been a member. To me this is a sign that 2004 Bulgaria made the right choice with its accession to NATO. What does the Union win with Finland and Sweden. Member States, who, by the way, have long been NATO partners, have long cooperated in various exercises and this is a sign that the Swedish army, Finland, is absolutely compatible with NATO armies? Finland and Sweden, with their economic power, with their gross domestic product, are practically security importers in the Alliance. They can contribute extremely much with their technological capabilities to modernise the Alliance, to modernise interoperability. One more fact I would like to point out that Sweden and Finland can contribute to the armed forces with human potential. Finland is able to mobilise up to one million people, along with its reserve, if necessary. The two countries have long formed as part of NATO's northern flank. They have long been involved in rescue exercises in the Baltic Sea. In practice, with their adoption, the Baltic Sea becomes the internal sea of the Alliance. Finland, for information, has already allocated 2% of its gross domestic product to arms. Statistics show since 2019. In addition, the Commission notes that the Greek authorities have not provided any information on the compatibility of the measure with the internal market and that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR, which you yourselves understand, is a significant potential. Sweden has more potential. They have the ambition at a later time to increase the percentage to two, but anyway with a powerful financial system they are a good partner in this regard. And one more fact I would like to point out, which, personally, impressed me with the way NATO partners were convinced of the need for Finland and Sweden to be part of the Alliance. The agreement with Turkey was very quickly reached, which was one of the main brakes for the adoption of the two countries, which, for me, is a good sign that dialogue, purposefully, can achieve the objective set. I am convinced that we will all vote for the promotion of a proposal and we will make our contribution to NATO expanding in a good, proper direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Are there any lines? No. Tsoncho Ganev has the floor after him, Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u60	Mr. President, NATO and Bulgaria is the issue at the moment because for decades the two countries for which ratification by the Bulgarian Parliament is required to approve are not members of NATO precisely because of security, precisely because of what will be the reaction of the Russian Federation and what would follow from this as response measures. This is precisely why the two countries have not submitted a request for entry into NATO for years. It is their right, I am not here to comment on what the two countries have decided at national level. That's what they decided. That's what they did. I am here, however, commenting on what Bulgaria's interests are. First and foremost, what we have said absolutely always and what we intend to realize one day is whether Bulgaria should be a member of NATO at all and this thing should be decided by the Bulgarian people. It is high time for the Bulgarian people to be asked whether they want to be a NATO member with all the positives and all the real negatives. Because what we are currently discussing is one of the huge negatives for the future. There have already been comments from the Russian Federation on what will be the response measures, what it will do and what this artificially stimulated confrontation and straining of tensions will lead to, provided there are military conflicts only miles away from these countries. This is precisely why we at the age of old do not believe that it is beneficial for our country to support the Ratification, to support the entry of these two countries into NATO. That is why, again, the Bulgarian people should ultimately rule: should they join such a military union, do we have a place there, and what do we get against being a member of this military union? [[Heckling]] Security? It is nice to think about each and every one of this Chamber of what security we are getting and who will protect us if there is a military conflict, or there will be a series of declarations, condemning aggression against the Bulgarian state, because against the Bulgarian state there will be all kinds of aggressions eventually, we cannot defend ourselves for a very simple and tragic reason - we do not have a really active and active army, because we cannot and do not have the capacity to defend ourselves against anyone else, because in order to enter NATO, we have destroyed entire clans of troops to enter NATO and the missiles that we have and that would deter any country from thinking of aggression against us. Those are the big problems and on this background Bulgaria is asked to ratify something that she personally has not benefited from, because there is neither going to be a conflict, on the contrary, there will be conditions to have new smoldering conflicts. Because when NATO has been warned for years that NATO's entry to the Russian Federation will lead to escalation and military conflict, this is exactly what we have been seeing for months now, because NATO has surrounded the Russian Federation from everywhere. What can we expect? With the entry of these two countries into NATO, do not think that something good will happen to us as a NATO member as well, as a country where eight foreign countries have a military contingent in Bulgaria, given that foreign countries protect our air space, provided we even have a request for Albanian military to come here, this is insane! We are not going to support it and we are going to vote strongly against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Ganev, in addition to what you said, we should note that Sweden and Finland are pointed out as quite democratic countries and without having any intention of interfering in their internal affairs, it would be much more representative and democratic for us, of course, if there was a referendum in both countries on their admission to NATO and their membership in NATO, as it happened about their accession to the European Union. That is, we see here a double standard for certain societies, including the Bulgarian ones, to be asked on some issues, not to be questioned on other issues that concern them for decades to come. For us it would be really much more representative if the two societies of Sweden and Finland were asked, there was a referendum and, accordingly, more serious motives were presented why and what imposes their acceptance so quickly in NATO. We believe that there is no basis for this, they are not in any way threatened by anyone, and there is no need for such express acceptance, because, notice that for certain countries there are different criteria. The same is observed with regard to Ukraine, there is also the intention of Ukraine in the fastest possible way to be accepted wherever it wants. We believe that it is right to have the same archin for absolutely all countries, and here we should pay attention, of course, to Bulgaria, because it affects us to the greatest extent. As a number of other countries have had referendums on entry into NATO and entry into the European Union, it was right to do so in Bulgaria, and we believe that this is precisely the most democratic way and when it is up to us, we will take steps accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go for a second line. I would just like to recall the Rules of Procedure: The reply is a brief objection to the substance of the final statement. Keep that in mind when we're doing lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, colleagues of ARGUMENT have tortures which only Freud could possibly describe. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u65	Mr. Georgiev, please leave Freud out of this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u66	Who are you to lecture us all the time from this tribune? We don't need your Mother Teresa-style charity. But stop leading people on! Who are we to take away the right of a sovereign state to be a member of a bloc, whatever it will be? Stop this demagogy! The road you're taking us on is only a road to North Korea and nowhere else. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "Democratic Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u68	Mr. Georgiev, I don't know how, I suppose, if it were the issue of a horse, you would be very up-to-date with your nine rounds of hell, you would say something meaningful maybe there, but we are a member of NATO, and that is what we are discussing right now whether we should allow and ratify. You didn't understand what was going to be voted on. We can say no. Do you understand that? We have the right. The fact that no one here will dare to say anything, except for rebirth, BSP is for NATO and is a pro-NATO party and that this is what you are talking about right now and the NATO braves are indicative of everything. But that's exactly what we're doing here, if you haven't understood, for the second time to tell you: ratify whether to say yes or no. What's not clear to you? That is exactly what you should have come out and said, which is what you said veiledly: "We are for NATO, for NATO enlargement, for NATO enlargement in Bulgaria, for even more NATO in Bulgaria, for American bases and as you support them and did not support our request for their closure. That's what you're doing. But again, it is good for you not to speak unpreparedly on such important matters, but for a Kovid to come and explain the nine circles of hell.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u69	Mr. Ganev, the Kovid has no connection here. Hristo Gadget has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to start with a huge disappointment about today's debate on a historic topic and historical issue, such as the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland to NATO. I would like to remind you that the last time a similar thing was ratified in this House was 2019. Membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the Alliance. Then there were representatives of the Council of Ministers, and above was invited the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia Talat Jaferi. This showed the attitude of the Bulgarian Parliament to the topic. At the moment, Mr President, unfortunately, I did not even hear you announce that even the ambassadors of the two countries are invited to attend the discussion of the Ratification of the membership of these two countries in the Alliance. This shows a disrespect, at least for me, and an understatement of the subject on the part of the government, and the subject is extremely important. Unfortunately, this is the case, but we now have the historic chance to be one of the first countries to ratify the membership of Sweden and Finland in the North Atlantic Treaty. So far, I think that only Canada has already ratified this project, so we will really line up among the first countries, and it is important that we show our attitude to the attitude of the National Assembly and Bulgaria towards the enlargement of the Alliance. We must also say, however, how it came to this, that these two countries wish to be members. Those who have studied international relations, international security at all, and so on, are familiar with the subject of the North Alliance? How a member state has been supported since the Cold War, one of the three Scandinavian countries to NATO, Norway. Sweden, which, by the way, has declared its armed neutrality for two centuries and has never interfered with the conflicts in the European Union in Europe, I apologise, and Finland since the end of World War II also retains its neutrality, but little or much falls into the orbit of influence of the Soviets then and Russia. And why has that changed? The date because of which the public sentiment changed in these two countries, because if we look at all the polls of the public opinion from the previous year even the majority of Swedes and Finns were not supporting exit from neutrality and taking one direction. All this changed on February 24, 2022. Because of the invasion and war of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Then even these two countries, which for decades, and one for centuries, have maintained their neutrality, realized that the only way to guarantee the security of our countries at the moment "the 21st century, 2022" is NATO membership. And that is why public relations and public opinion in these two countries have changed dramatically over the past few months. We're talking about a referendum here. Well, there were opportunities and various public opinion polls in both countries, and it showed a dramatic rise in support for NATO membership, even reaching over 70 per cent of Finns in Finland, given that up until a year ago there were about 40. That is, this membership and this process, which these two governments have gone through in the last few months, meets broad support for their own societies and we must support it. With Finland and Sweden, we share the same values, the same vision for the world, how it should develop. We are also together in the European Union for a reason, and we must support their desire to become members of the North Atlantic Treaty. In this way, first, we will guarantee their security. Here was said about the years of experience between the armies of these two countries and the armies, our allies, interoperabilities, as the term is, will not be so difficult for them, but this is the way they guarantee their security. Moreover, this is a way for us to guarantee security, because these two armies, which, by the way, are well-trained and well-prepared armies, in Europe apart from within the European Union, become our allies. As can be subtracted from art. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, each army ally is responsible for the security of the other states. So we will rely on Sweden and Finland for our security, as well as the Swedes and Finns can rely on the Bulgarians in support of their security. The decision is important, the decision must be made today. I hope that we will take it with consensus as far as possible, but let us not forget the main reason for this is that there is a war on this continent. This war was not started by NATO, this war was not started by the European Union, this war must stop, and we must ensure the security of the NATO member states and welcome to the Sweden and Finland Alliance. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there a line to Mr. Gajev? I can't see. The next statement is from Atanas Slavov, then Andrei Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today, the Bulgarian Parliament is about to make one, I would say, of the historical decisions that will be taken in the mandate of this National Assembly, and not only. Why? Because with Sweden and Finland joining NATO, it is not just that the Alliance is getting bigger, not just getting new power and new opportunities for protection, but because it is changing the architecture of international security since the end of World War II, and especially the Cold War. This is a strategic change in what European security looks like as a result of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Within half a year Putin wanted to push the Alliance out of the new Central and Eastern European countries, he wanted to bring the Alliance back to 1997. To close the Alliance only in the western part of the continent. In six months, Putin received the opposite of NATO expanding, NATO and the European Union actively support democratic Ukraine to fight off aggression, Putin will lose this war sooner or later. However, it is important that Europe wins security, that Europe wins sustainability and the opportunity to repel attacks by the aggressors that are at our borders. In this sense, the accession of Sweden and Finland is a key step towards having a stronger Alliance, strengthening the north-south axis and our protection from possible aggression on the part of Russia, increasing our ability to respond to aggressive action not only with weapons but also in cyberspace. It is extremely important to realize that Bulgaria is, unfortunately, behind in the process of modernisation of its armed forces. And I say this because the next few months will be crucial in whether Bulgaria has a chance to catch up in its modernization of the armed forces, or on the contrary, for a long period of time it will continue to be in line. The next few months, we're going to be looking at an offer to buy 8 new fighters. We are about to try to modernise our Land Forces, our Navy is about to acquire new capabilities, but if in Bulgaria we allow political crises to dominate the political landscape, we will probably miss the opportunities that are currently open to us both within the Alliance and within the European Union. So today, when we vote for the accession of Sweden and Finland, let us think about where Bulgaria could have been after almost 20 years of membership in the Alliance. What have we missed, and what from now on must we catch up with accelerated steps for the coming months and several years? Let us be at the height of our historical responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines? I won't. The word is Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, indeed what my colleague Slavov said that the architecture of security in Europe has changed is a fact. What we are going to vote on today is a Ratification which, judging by the modest interest in this House, does not particularly interest you, colleagues, and perhaps we do not realise what is happening. There is a single accession of two countries that have invested for many years in their own defence. Such an example should be for us because good defense investments pay off, they make you a desired partner, they allow you to have self-esteem, to have authority in international relations. And if you still have to defend yourself, you can do it with confidence. This can be done by the Kingdom of Sweden and Finland today. It is also difficult for us what a colleague before me said with a slight insulting note about the Bulgarian defence capabilities, let us not allow ourselves such words, let us respect our own capacity of capital, small, as they are. It's important to have better ones. As chairman of our delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly about two months ago, I spoke with my colleagues from the Kingdom of Sweden. The problems of their accession were clear, but I am delighted and pleased to find that they have been resolved. This is an example of diplomacy. What about the benefits? The benefits for Bulgaria are clear "military and technical cooperation," as well as a democratic sustainability, you miss this word, democratic sustainability, because NATO is not only a military union, colleagues, NATO are not just tanks and planes, NATO is politics and diplomacy and a new strategic concept. Speaking of all this, our parliamentary group will support the Ratification of membership of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland. The conclusions, however, remain for us. They become members, they become our allies, and whether we will strive to be like their armies and as their diplomacy is a matter of each and every one of us and of the consciousness of each and every one of us. Their choice is undisputed, as I suppose, and the majority of the Chamber is undisputed with the support of the Bulgarian Parliament for this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? I can't see. The word is Mr. Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, today's date is important. Historical date, Mr. Slavov, is 1999, you know very well when Bulgaria makes its valuable choice. I fully agree that the geopolitical situation has changed not only in the region but also in Europe. Obviously, there is also a restructuring of the geopolitical location of the forces. We cannot fail to respond to the wishes of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland. Not only are we from the DPS, but Bulgaria must also support this ratification, of course we will. Because we from the DPS can safely say we from NATO, because Bulgaria is NATO, we understand very well that before it is a military and defence union, when it comes to it, NATO is, above all, a value union, and when we make this decision here in this House, it is nice to be guided by this principle. I say this for a reason, because we at the DPS are quite clear, and both here in Bulgaria and in Brussels we vote in the same way, and not like some in this House, I will not give examples that vote in one way, and when they go to Brussels, they vote in another way and try to create an image of quasi-Euro-Atlantic parties. But I'm still telling you, guided by values, we have to make this decision, and this is the right first step. By the way, since it is also an important step, here I would also like to draw attention to the second step that we must take and which we have not yet discussed. Mr. Gazhev hinted about her that the new Strategic Concept of NATO is already in place and we, as a country, have to update Bulgaria, get into class with the new realities if we want to really be a full member of the Union. And from this point of view, we at the DPS are a little puzzled as to why the government at the moment of Bulgaria, which claimed to be Euro-Atlantic, is represented at Deputy Minister level? My respect to the Deputy Minister, but it is very unserious on such a subject that there is no representative of the executive at a proper level, let alone talk about other countries. I am sure that their embassies are here represented and watching what we are doing in the hall, but to us as a country which, again, will say it for the third time, valuablely decided to be in NATO because NATO is a value union, had to have a serious representation here and to justify not only why we want to accept the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, but how we, as a country that is almost on the front, can be said at the front, intends to update its strategic concept so as to be in tune with NATO's, and we really can be an added plus to NATO. Because, thank God, we have the happiness almost all of our neighbours to be NATO member states, which makes it quite easy for us compared to some other periods of our history that were quite dark. But we have our responsibility here, it is good for Bulgaria to take it more fully and, above all, that our action is not limited to this ratification alone. Because this is not a declaratory act, colleagues, this is an act of determining who wants to be what in this value system. And when we talk about this value system, I would also like to point out that it is not limited to NATO alone. NATO is a good foundation, but there are many other related acts, actions and policies that determine every day whether we want as political forces to be part of this union or not. The DPS has long made its choice, has long followed it here and in Brussels and everywhere, and especially with its actions it continues to declare and prove its desire to be part of this union because it is good for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev. Until you come, to inform that the ambassadors of Sweden and Finland are invited, but unfortunately, both are not in Bulgaria, however, there are representatives of the embassies. Mr. Drenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u78	Mr. Anastasov, many times you mentioned values. I see a Euro-Atlantic not even consensus, but an idyll from the far end of the House to the far right. Only an ARGUMENT has expressed its objections, but since we have heard values many times from you, these are clearly some particular NATO values that I have not heard of and will ask you to clarify. Do they differ from human beings, do they differ from the values we have shared so far? And what's the point of defining in any way values of a military union? I'd be curious to hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u79	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any other lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Anastasov, yes, the understatement by the government of today is a fact. Neither the Foreign Minister nor the Defence Minister are here, but at least we understand the reason why the ambassadors aren't. But you're right about one thing, and I want to add to it, and I want to challenge you a little bit for the purpose of the things that were adopted at the Madrid Summit. In addition to the adoption of the request of these two countries to become members, a new Strategic Concept and many other important decisions, including the intensive presence on the eastern flank, are adopted. This morning, the President made a communication about a decision of the Council of Ministers approving the deployment of allied troops on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is right, and so must be done especially at times of threat to our security. However, we also need to work on updating our strategic documents. The Strategy for National Security, National Defence Strategy, Vision and the concept of development of the armed forces, all things that need to be updated with the new plans and with NATO's new strategies. Unfortunately, I don't see the government working on any of them. Unfortunately, I see that the government is actually passively accepting NATO's decisions and is not an active member, as it should be, and actively participating not only in Brussels, but also here to implement the decisions that are being adopted in order to be adequate to the threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gadget, I'll start with you. I think we are looking in the same direction, only I do not think that the Minister of Defence and the Foreign Minister would be sufficient in this situation, as it is a matter of national policy. There was supposed to be at least a deputy prime minister here and he was going to be here, of course, so they could guarantee... Just because they're retired doesn't mean they're out of their jobs. Not to mention that their Euro-Atlantic orientation has dropped because they are resigned, because here is another face revealed to the Prime Minister and his deputies, but I do not want to go into details, because I think everyone is aware of who is declaring what and how much they really mean. Empty chairs speak for themselves when it comes to such an important topic. Mr. Drenchev, the values to tell you how NATO is guaranteed and what Euro-Atlantic values are, you can see very well the basic protection of human rights, the main one is democracy. Very important, and this is the difference between talking and doing when it comes to values, and that is why Bulgaria has chosen to be part of this value union, is that these values have legal guarantees, to be guaranteed in every way possible. Because the universal Charter of Human Rights has a very interesting history. I encourage you to explore it outside the official, to see who prepared it and who then voted against it in view of the conjuncture. But human rights, democracy, human rights and freedoms are values that need to be legally guaranteed and legally binding. This is the difference between NATO and some other alliances, which, now I will not comment on them and do not need to, but in any case for Bulgaria it is much better to develop precisely in this value union. And it's a conscious choice, I want you to understand it is not some whim. When this debate is conducted 1999 here in this Chamber, I want to assure you, look at the transcripts that there was no consensus then. It was very difficult to reach this consensus then, but then there were a few brave leaders who spoke openly because they knew what they were doing and because they could look 30 years ahead to know what was good for Bulgarian citizens, what was good for all Bulgarian citizens, not only minorities, so that Bulgaria could develop and be part of the European Union today thanks to the fact that it has chosen its Euro-Atlantic path. There is for nothing this informally written rule specifically for the parties of the former Warsaw Pact [[the President signals that time has run out]] , firstly, to pass through NATO when they are on their way to the European Union. Yes, but these are the values, I assure you, and they have very real dimensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. The word is Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, after him Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Of course, we from "We continue the Change" will support ratification, which is actually important not only for NATO, it is also important for the European Union. Members of the European Union, such as the two countries, will now become our partners in NATO, but it is generally very important to say that when you become a member of a Union, you can be part of the decision making and that is actually the strength of Bulgaria. As a member of the European Union and as a member of NATO, we can participate in the decision-making process, propose decisions that we should impose as an agenda for these two organisations. Of course, we've heard speeches about propaganda, about people being scared. Yes, this is how the hybrid war flows in social networks, on TV, with independent speakers who receive 4000 levs, some more. Yes, unfortunately, the cashier of the Russian Embassy sent him back to Moscow, I do not know who will pay them, but it is very important in fact the choice that was made, and this ratification is actually important for Bulgaria as well. When more European countries become members of NATO, this way the whole European philosophy and strategy looks in the same direction. I think there shouldn't be much debate about this choice. The debate comes only from people who are trying to derive a political dividend, but when you think about the Bulgarian interest and what is important to Bulgaria, about the choice we have made a long time ago, and with each passing year, especially what happened on 24 February, confirms that this choice was right and that Bulgaria is in the right place. In such elections there should not be division and an attempt to remove the Bulgarian national interest over any subjective interests, even close to foreign interests, because, as we are part of the European Union and we can decide how enlargement will go, in the same way we are currently voting Ratification for NATO, it is also important that we enter the euro area, because Bulgaria should be part of the decision making. At the moment we are not making any decisions relating to the euro area, although we are bound at a fixed rate for the euro. So these events put Bulgaria in the room, put it in a place where it could be part of the decisions, make decisions, be able to vote, accept, reject. So this ratification as a whole will strengthen the European Union, will also strengthen NATO as an organisation. It is simply that NATO will be even stronger and important, and it is good that we are part of this union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines? Mr. Gazhev, come in. To say in the meantime that a meeting of the Council of Ministers is in progress, perhaps that explains the absence of some of the ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I have a short line just to help you. In the European Union, Member States are partners. We're allies in NATO. It's good to follow the right terminology. As for this, yes, the more Member States of the European Union and NATO members, it is nice. From now on, it is also important to see how the government, what positions it will take on the replacement of the roles and the position of Bulgaria in determining the European decisions. Regarding the competences that are for NATO, which are for the European Union. Because so far Bulgaria's position has always been the territory of NATO, so to speak, the policies that are in the field of NATO do not overlap and make double costs, so to speak, with those of the European Union. I hope this government will continue, too, because it is more effective. It's important to make a difference where we are partners, where we are allies. But even more important is how to develop our potential effectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gadget, in order to be important and partner or associate, you must learn to say no. [[(Replys:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u89	Ally.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u90	Ally, I apologize. Saying no. We in the European Union have shown that we can say no, unlike GERB, who for 10 years have always said yes. You can't be a part of this no matter how you speak without defending Bulgaria's position. In fact, this government made its orientation very clear and showed that it works in the interest because it says no when it is not in the interests of Bulgaria. So to go into some details and a slight nagging, there is no problem if you are interested, but the facts need to be seen because, who follows what is happening in Bulgaria's foreign policy, will see the sharp change and the difference with what has been happening for 10 years 12 years and what has been happening for the last six or seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. [[National Representative Daniel Mitov wants the floor.]] For a statement? There is before you first, Mr. Danchev, Mr. Ibryamov and then Daniel Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u92	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we see here, there is a Euro-Atlantic idyll. The big problem is that we are still trying to pretend to be more Christian than the pope, we are still first in that direction. We see a country from which we can learn, which is an older NATO member, that is Turkey, which very carefully voiced its objections to the subject and received, in the appropriate format, assurances about its interests. This is exactly what we should have done even if we decided that we would not oppose NATO enlargement. This could have happened in a way in which we are as well defending our own national interests, which we should always put them first before participating in any alliances. One of the major problems in the previous alliances we were involved in was that we do not put our interests in this way. We saw at one point they literally fell apart for days and left us completely unprotected, but then with a strong army, something we don't now have, and which is one big problem ahead of us. It's good to participate, it's good to have eyes everywhere, but it's no less good to take into account our interests and put them always in the first place. I think nothing would have happened if we didn't rush so much with this ratification but, on the contrary, abandoned it for a moment, when much more carefully and much better, not with a resignation government, we can defend our own national interests. Our own national interests, these are not idle talk, this is something that we should always think about and should not forget, and we should put it first before our participation in any alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there any lines? Mr. Belev, first line, Mr. Mitev, second line, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Drenchev, dear colleagues! And it has become clear from your group's predecessors that we have some claims to Finland and Sweden. I'm going to ask you to come out and tell us exactly what claims we have and how exactly we can ask for a continuance, because these things you speak in the past tense. [[noise and lines from the parliamentary ARRANGEMENT group]] In addition, you are the Chairman of the Defence Committee and have had the opportunity to attend the meetings with the ambassadors. You didn't ask such questions there. Please tell me exactly what claims we should have and what conditions should we place on Sweden and Finland, I am interested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u95	Thank you, Mr. Belev. Mr. Mitev was first. Okay, well, let's take turns, Mr. Anastasov. I don't know. The other principle is in the order of declaration. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today at the Club of the National Representative there is an exhibition "War through the eyes of the children." Mr. Drenchev, stop defending the interests of the killer Vladimir Putin from this tribune and his minions in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from the parliamentary ARRANGEMENT group]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u97	Mr. Mitev, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u98	Stop feeding the fears of Bulgarian citizens that the great evil, if you do not see, will visit them as well. Like your favorite friend Tsoncho said. [[Laughter, noise and lines from the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection]] NATO is our only chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u99	Please respect Mr. Mitev, let's treat our colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u100	...to have security, to be calm. [[Loud and long laughs from the parliamentary group of ARRANGEMENT.]] Mr. Drenchev, this security why do you want to take it from Sweden and Finland? [[Loud and long laughs from the parliamentary group of ARRANGEMENT.]] You want to watch an exhibition of the children of Sweden and Finland after a few years here? Is that your goal, Mr. Drenchev? So...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u101	Guys, please, this isn't funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u102	Please let the people who have decided to become part of this union have the rights and security that Bulgarian citizens currently have, thanks to this union. [[noise and lines from the parliamentary ARRANGEMENT group]] Thank you. [[Laughter and loud noise and lines from the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u103	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Mr. Anastasov. [[Noise. Laughter from the Parliamentary Resurrection Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u104	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to put some order in the room and let the emotion go away, because it's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u105	I'm trying to ask my colleagues not to laugh that hard. I don't know why this is funny. Let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u106	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Drenchev, I did not intend in any way to take a reply to you, but I will do it for one simple reason that you argued your thesis against it with the same arguments with which Mr. Ananiev argued his thesis. And here it's important to understand the difference. This isn't about interests. If it were only about interests, then Bulgaria would be a very flexible player who makes many breaks in the cross and is a totally unpredictable partner, and an ally, and a member of different alliances. And Bulgaria does not want to be, at least we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do not want to be. It is therefore important to understand that it is not important to say yes and not in the light of our interest that this is a completely wrong argumentation and a totally wrong thesis which Mr. Ananiev uses, and we are making our decisions based on values, based on a value decision, which is already several levels above interest. It is important that this is understood by the whole room and that when we press the button for the people who press the button for the room, they really know why they are doing it. Not because we have an interest, not because this is the Bulgarian interest, not because NATO is Bulgaria, not because we from DPS are NATO, but because we believe in these values and defend these values every day, with each act of ours. And this is something that is much longer than interest, something that is much deeper than interest, but here we are talking really about a different level. That's why my line, as you well understand, is not just about you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. You have the floor for the duvet, Mr. Drenchev. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Not a hole now, but take someone's cue, replicate Mr. Anastasov. I don't know what else to recommend.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u108	I thank Mr. Belev and Mr. Anastasov for the lines. I would start from the value system, which, first of all, should put us Bulgarians, our interests, if you want, the interests of the Bulgarian army in the first place, as well as participation in the alliances. From that point of view, I'm going for it. We have a big problem with the fact that, when we talk about the previous Union, the Warsaw Treaty, in which we were a member and in which we used some collective security, we had a strong army that had to stand up in the southern European theatre of the military actions of the armies of Turkey and Greece. At least with regard to aviation, that money had it. It was important because the sky can fill it with more planes than land lines, which are quite well closed with mountains in the southern part of Bulgaria, with land troops. So when the Warsaw Treaty fell apart, we had an extremely good defense system that we lost for years to come. I expected our entry into NATO would bring us perhaps a smaller, perhaps cheaper, but equally combatable and high-tech army. Alas, that did not happen. What happened? We've bought eight planes, eight airplanes from a factory that hasn't been manufactured yet, or recently they said it's started maybe a job, which means we don't have any combat capabilities, at least in terms of the aviation I know well. For me, this was a purely corrupt deal, which I've put out a signal, quite well-grounded, to the Attorney General. And at the moment we see that we are continuing the Change.In fact, we are: "We continue to order non-existent planes from a non-existent factory and pay them with real money, which we borrow from our children's debts. " - I definitely don't like this. Right, the gym will generally decide what to do and how to do, but it's not the good way. This is also Mr. Belev, the answer to your line. In fact, I have nothing against Finland, nothing against Sweden, and I do not believe that Bulgaria should have territorial claims on them, as they joke about them, or anything else. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On the contrary, what worries me, I would rather say it as a remark to these countries and a warning, they look at our experience.. our entry into NATO, which did not bring much of the abilities and advantages, and carefully think about it, because I was a little worried that they quickly made a decision in a dynamic environment and perhaps made some mistake, but that is ultimately their choice. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But I would say, looking at Bulgaria, thinking about themselves and put their own interests first. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Now the word is Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Obviously, the subject is quite interesting, related to the ratification of the Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden. They heard in previous statements how this day or act is historical. The fact is that it is historic, but historically it was the day 5 July, when NATO's ambassadors in Brussels signed this treaty for the accession of the two countries to become full members. And honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, this is a formal act, nothing more. A formal act by two countries, which have been partners in this alliance for a long time, participate in joint missions, exchanges and everything that includes, as security, stability, exchange of experience in the member states of the North Atlantic Treaty. Moreover, both countries are members of the European Union, of Old Europe, which shows the way of thinking both in NATO and in the European Union. Secondly, it is no accident that this act occurs at this moment when the world as a whole is changing. The world as a whole, I would say it is restructuring and perhaps Old Europe itself needs more than ever a clear, secure, stable defence and interaction. I would say even, I sincerely hope that other countries will follow the example of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Finland, why not Serbia, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly? The key, as I started in my speech, is the legal act that is happening right now. This is the enlargement of NATO, I would say to the European Union, and this is talking about one development and not only this development concerns intensively, it is a victory for all members of the North Atlantic Treaty. Moreover, in no way will this expansion, this development affect any other structures or any other countries. There was even a statement from Russia that they were okay with this enlargement and did not see any threat to their country in this direction. That is why, as at the beginning of the speech, the Member said, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to support this ratification and we hope that other countries will follow this fine example soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines? I can't see. The word is Daniel Mitov. Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I wasn't going to speak, but again I was provoked by raising the subject of values and asking the question: "What are these values?" I have heard this question some other time, especially since the tendency to deal with it to have in Bulgaria and the so-called other point of view, i.e. the Kremlin's point of view. Of course, no one can be deprived of the right to challenge the narativa, which also has NATO, which also has the European Union. After all, those who stand behind these values must be explained. So it's kind of a favor, of course. When asking what these values are, we must be able to compare. And the fact that NATO is currently expanding should tell us about one single thing, namely that there is a severe civilisational fault that is currently setting a clear line. Sweden and Finland want to make a statement to the whole world about Urbi et Orbi, where they stand, on which side of this civilisational fault they stand. When we talk about values, I will mention only a few and what is the difference between what protects NATO and the existing order in Russia itself. I won't even say the Russian Federation, because the Russian Federation is only on paper, there is no Federation there. NATO protects value as freedom of speech. Freedom of speech that is lacking in Russia. Journalists paid with their lives as Anna Politkovskaya, while others, such as Alexander Nevzorov, Viktor Senderovic and many others, were forced to leave Russia recently for the simple reason that they allowed themselves to criticize the war. That's one of the differences. NATO protects value and concept, such as the separation of authorities, which protects from dictatorship. A division of the authorities, which in Russia has long been destroyed, both the separation of authorities, the classic legislative, executive, judicial, and the division of the authorities with regard to the division of local authorities, the central government. There's been no such thing in Russia for a long time. Everything is vertical, everything is centralized, everything is commanded by a single center. NATO also defends the rule of law as a value. I am not saying that democratic states and NATO Member States have achieved some ideal state with regard to the rule of law, but this is a matter of evolution and of talking about how to improve this rule of law, as well as in our country. In Russia, there is no such thing. The courts are subordinate to the central government, there are issued sentences as the Kremlin wishes, especially with regard to people who have a problem with putting up with the power of certain people, and who...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u113	I think we're getting a little bit further away from...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u114	No, no! Explaining the values, explaining the difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u115	Yes, but we are still discussing the ratification of two bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u116	Please, Mr. Vigenin. Please! The essay of my speech, leave it to me. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u117	I am obliged to bring order to this House when commenting on ratification...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u118	I don't see any disturbance in this room, Mr. Vigenin!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u119	Yes, but you're about to challenge them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u120	Mr. Chairman, I don't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u121	So...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u122	I say things... Mr. Vigenin, am I going to argue with you now, or are you going to let me finish my speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u123	I can stop a speech if I have to. I have no intention of doing that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u124	I am not convinced that it is in your favor to stop this very statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u125	No, you're no more special than the others. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u126	No, I may not be special, the point is that we're talking about...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u127	Everyone does, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u128	The point is, we're talking about fundamental things, and I don't think I'm saying anything that needs to be scandalized. Aren't these the same principles written in our Constitution?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u129	Now, Mr. Mitov, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u130	And when we talk about a civilisational fault...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u131	I'm asking you to focus on...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u132	...isn't it exactly what separates us?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u133	... The bill we're discussing. The general policy statements are...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u134	The bill we are discussing is directly related to what I am saying, Mr. Vigenin. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's a direct link to what I'm saying. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u135	Please, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u136	Honest and free elections are also fundamental, which is valuable to NATO and which NATO defends. Such a thing in the Russian Federation, as fair and free elections, does not exist, nor does human rights. But since I feel that part of the room, especially on the left, is getting excited because they don't know how to explain this civilization difference to their voters, I will tell you one last thing. I, of course, this bill for nothing else, but because I am convinced and believe that freedom should always be better armed than tyranny. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u137	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Kostadinov has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u138	So far, I feel like we've gone back 81 years in time. Because in 1941, we had the same case. Here in this Chamber, shortly after June 22nd, Finland's accession to the Trilateral Pact is discussed. This is not the first time we will become allies with this country, we have been allies with it from June 22, 1941 until shortly after September 9, 1944. In this regard, because there has been a lot of talk here about European values, about an old Europe, about a new Europe, about alliances, about commitments, I want to read to you something that is from the State Almanac One concerns the Trilateral Pact and Finland's accession to it, the other concerns the declaration of war by the United States and Britain in December 1941. What do we read when we open the pages for the Trilateral Pact? I repeat for those who are not aware of this is the alliance of Nazi Germany, fascist Italy and Japan. Bulgaria's state position: The accession of Bulgaria to the Tripartite Pact was an event of huge importance, we would say of global importance and still did not change the policy led by Bulgaria before that. On the contrary, it is in full harmony with the aspirations of the Bulgarian people towards justice, equality, freedom, peace and European values. As we can see, European values are not from yesterday. When we talk about the next moment, the accession of Finland to this organisation, which is fighting for European values and for a new Europe, here when we talk about the declaration of war from Bulgaria to the United States and Britain, we read the following: However, the most important thing in this case should be stressed largely that, as the Prime Minister said, Bulgaria does not view the declaration of war of the United States and Great Britain as a purely contractual obligation, but takes its decision out of a sense of solidarity and a sincere desire to contribute to the creation of a new Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u139	Is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u140	Because there are calls for the subject here, the subject is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u141	Go to her now, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u142	...that we're actually repeating the same mistake that we did 80 years ago. The same things that were explained to us as a people before 1944 explained them to us after 1944 and explained them to us after 1989. History is generally a teacher of the nations, from which, unfortunately, no one learns. At this point, when someone repeats the mistakes of his own history, he is doomed to repeat them 10 times worse and 10 times harder. What is happening now is no more, no less repeating what happened in the summer days of 1941, just 81 years ago, almost the same time, by the way, because on 22 June 1941 the Trilateral Pact attacked the Soviet Union. So when we talk about these hypocritical European values, by talking about building a new Europe, by talking about tyranny, by talking about freedom, let us not forget that these are so old words, which in the mouths of political hypocrites, turned the sale of the Bulgarian national interest and turned the sale of Bulgarian statehood and state into their livelihood, from which they eat ugly and unworthy, it simply makes no sense to comment on anything. The truth is that we should only look at the Bulgarian interest, which at the moment, if we ask them the question: what is exactly the point of Finland and Sweden joining NATO, and what exactly has NATO given? Our country is now entirely dependent on foreign powers, for the first time in its history. Since the Third Bulgarian State exists, there have been foreign military forces on our territory, we have no control over them. Bulgaria is practically a semi-initiated country, on the territory of which there are currently military contingents of five countries, we are waiting on two more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u143	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u144	I'm done. Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We will not support this proposal because it does not meet the Bulgarian national interest in any way. We'll repeat the same mistake again. And when a man repeats his mistakes even though he's done them already, and he knows it shouldn't be repeated, this man is either a national traitor or he's a complete fool. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u145	Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't either. We're closing the discussion. We're about to move on to a vote. I will put to the vote at first reading the Bill on ratification of the Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden. Vote 197 MPs: 185, against 12, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Did I hear a rally? No. With this, the Bill was adopted at first reading. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the MLNS, I propose that the newly adopted ratification bill be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u147	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. I put the proposal to the vote. [[Relations of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Please cancel this vote. Mr. Vassilev, please specify when you propose to vote at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u148	Now. Now! [[Replications of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u149	It is, but it still has to be said, as some of the colleagues did not understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u150	I propose now, within the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u151	With this clarification, I ask that we now vote on the proposal made to vote on the bill at second reading immediately after the first reading. Please, voting mode. Vote 206 MPs: for 194, against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Now I suppose Mrs. Lubenova is on the move, as we move on to a second reading of the Bill, to present it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of Protocols to the North Atlantic Treaty concerning the accession of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden Article 1. It ratifies the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Finland, signed on 5 July 2022 in Brussels. Article 2. It ratifies the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Kingdom of Sweden, signed on 5 July 2022 in Brussels. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Lubenova. However, I am opening a discussion on the texts so presented. I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the discussion. I shall put the name of the bill to the vote at second reading, art. Art. 1, art. 2 and the Final provision with the only Paragraph. Please, voting mode. Vote 206 MPs: for 195, against 11, no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted. The draft has also been approved at second reading. [[Applause from..We continue the Change, GERB-SDS, DPS, Democratic Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues, from now on, an interactive exhibition under the title of the Small Witnesses of the War will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. The exhibition presents pictures of Ukrainian children witnessing the war in a non-standard way. The exhibition is designed to initiate a donation campaign to support children refugees from Ukraine in Bulgaria. The initiative is supported by the Embassy of Ukraine. All MPs are invited. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u154	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, in particular of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the Commission on European Union issues and from the Budget and Finance Committee. Is there anyone to present the reports, colleagues? Mr. Sabrutev, are you going to present us with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're about to have a clearance procedure. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, No 47-202-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers of 6 July 2022 At an extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Tsekov. The ratification of the Memorandum provides the basis for cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in relation to the implementation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the programmes co-financed by the Cohesion Policy of the European Union for the Programme Period 2021 - 2027. The potential areas in which the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide technical assistance to EU funds are: improving the competitiveness of the private sector, supporting infrastructure projects, supporting reforms and decarbonisation of the energy sector, financial instruments, preparing and implementing public sector reforms. According to the Memorandum, support for projects will be implemented by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the basis of individual agreements that will be signed with institutions responsible for the implementation of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability and Cohesion Policy and will be financed through resources from the relevant European funds. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 9 votes for the draft, with no objection to the draft and 5 votes abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, No 47-202-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Colleagues, who will present us with the report of the Commission on European Union issues? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u157	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose for admission to the Chamber the following persons: Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Vesela Petrova, Head of Department of the Department of National Fund at the Ministry of Finance; Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of Central Coordination Office at the Council of Ministers, and Milena Penevska, Head of State at the Directorate of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. This is also about the Bill you have just heard and the Bill with the Commission........................ about both points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u158	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Anastasov asked for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u159	Before reading the next report, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the group, I would also like to ask Mr. Sabrutev: has he seen the Memorandum because the Commission has voted on motives and decisions? None of my colleagues have seen the Memorandum as a Memorandum. Not that I have a claim to content, but it's ridiculous for a whole room to vote on something she hasn't seen. It's kind of weird. Of course, Mr. Stoinev can disprove me, but in the Commission, colleagues in the Memorandum as a text have not seen him, and he is not in the decision of the Council of Ministers, and he is not on the website of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Anastasov, the memorandum itself was sent to the emails of the attention of all MPs on 7 July, so everyone had the opportunity to meet, there was enough time. Mr. Stoynev, please submit the Report and then I will put to the vote Mr. Karimanski's request for admission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just so I'm clear, the Memorandum was sent to all the MPs. We in the European Union Committee have it, absolutely all of us. The memorial, yes. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, No 47-202-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, No 47-202-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022. The bill was presented by Mr. Andrej Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vesela Petrova, Head of the Department of the Department of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers, and Mrs. Milena Panevska, Chief Expert of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. The proposed draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, aims to provide the legal basis for cooperation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the European Funds for the Programme Period 2021 - 2027. The signing of the Memorandum with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will enable bilateral technical assistance agreements to be concluded on the basis of a model Agreement providing support for projects with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is an annex to the Memorandum. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the European Union Committee on Issues with 12 votes....... is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u162	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. My fellow Members, I am now going to put to the vote what Mr. Lyubomir Kariman's procedural proposal for admission. Please, voting mode. Vote 94 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Please invite the persons to whom we have just voted. Dear colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the project so tabled. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. For the guests, just so you know. Honourable Members, we have been aware of the two reports concerning the submitted project, which were not willing to speak, so we will proceed to the vote on the Bill at first reading. Honourable Members, I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027, including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan with the Importer Council of Ministers. Vote 138 MPs: 129 against 8, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose the bill adopted in the first vote for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u164	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. My fellow Members, I am putting to the vote what Mr Karimanski has put to the vote on the procedural proposal. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 132 against 8, no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 - 2027 including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan A single member. Rehabilitating the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on support for the implementation of projects financed through the European Funds for the period 2021 "2027," including the Recovery and Sustainability Plan signed on 30 May 2022. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u166	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the Bill, article alone, the name of the division and paragraph alone, as read by Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski. They voted 143 MPs: for 136 against 7, no abstentions. With this, the proposal is adopted and the Second Voting Bill. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MECHANISM FUNDING AGREEMENT FOR RESISTANCE AND RESISTANCE BETWEEN THE COMMISSION AND THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the Commission on European Union issues and from the Budget and Finance Committee. The Committee on European Union Affairs is the lead. Mr. Stoynev, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft for ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022. The draft was presented by Mr. Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vesela Petrova, Head of Department of the Department of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers, and Mrs. Milena Panevska, Chief Expert of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. The proposed Draft Law on the ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria is the result of a adopted Council Implementing Decision 8091/22 approving the assessment of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2022. The purpose of the Financing Agreement is to define the rights and obligations between the Parties and the conditions applicable to the financial contribution granted with a view to satisfactory implementation of the stages and objectives of Bulgaria's reforms and investments under the Council implementing decision approving the assessment of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The results expected to be achieved with the adoption of the proposed act of the Council of Ministers and with the proposed ratification agreement for financing are the launch of the financial implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, the establishment of a regulatory framework for ensuring the effective implementation of the planned reforms and investments by Bulgaria and is a prerequisite for submitting a first request for payment to the European Commission. The conclusion of a financing agreement shall be in accordance with art. 23 of Regulation 2021/241 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing a Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism. The specific rights and obligations to be determined by the Agreement shall be in accordance with art. 22 (2) of Regulation 2021/241 and are related to carrying out regular checks on whether the funding granted has been properly used, whether the stages and objectives envisaged for individual reforms and investments have been implemented, appropriate measures to prevent, detect and correct fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest, double funding and due legal actions to recover funds that have been unlawfully used should be taken accordingly. The proposed amendments with the Law on ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria will have no direct impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Union issues proposed by 11 votes for the Commission and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u168	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Sabrutev, you have the floor to introduce us to the report from the Budget and Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by: Andrey Tsekov, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ivan Ivanov, Director of the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Tsekov. In his statement he pointed out that the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism is concluded in implementation of art. 23 of Regulation of the European Union 2021/241 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing a Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism. The conclusion of an Agreement between the European Commission and the Member State concerned gives rise to an individual legal obligation within the meaning of the Financial Regulation. The purpose of the Financing Agreement is to determine the rights and obligations between the Parties and the conditions applicable to the financial contribution granted in order to implement the stages and objectives of the reforms and investments from Bulgaria. The Agreement provides for regular checks to be carried out on whether the funding provided has been properly used, whether the stages and objectives envisaged under the individual reforms and investments have been implemented, appropriate measures to prevent, detect and correct fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest, double funding, and to take legal action to recover illegally used funds should be taken accordingly. The ratification of the Financing Agreement initiates the financial implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and establishes a legal framework for ensuring the effective implementation of the envisaged reforms and investments in Bulgaria, all of which is a prerequisite for submitting a first request for payment to the European Commission. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 13 votes for the draft, without the opposition and 1 vote abstention. On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, the Draft for ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u170	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. My fellow Members, I put to the first vote a bill for ratifying the Financing Agreement of the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria with an importer of the Council of Ministers. They voted 133 MPs: 125, against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Stoynev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Draft Law on the ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 47-202-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2022, be adopted in a second vote, as no proposals for amendments and additions to the Draft were made during the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u172	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u173	Vote 166 MPs: 155 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria A single member. Ratification of the Financing Agreement under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism between the Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria, signed on 4 July 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u175	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I put to the vote the text of the bill, the name and the article so presented. Vote 157 MPs: 147 against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: A decision to create a TEMPORARY COMMISSION for the establishment of all FACTS and ASSISTANCES RELATED TO SURVIVE PETROL TO THE MANUFACTURER OF GORWA LUKOYL NEFTOHIM BURGAS. Importers are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The importer is Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. I give the floor to the importers on the first proposal from Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Who's gonna present the Project? Here you go, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a month ago, our parliamentary group submitted to the National Assembly a draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the producer of fuels Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. Of course, this was mostly due to galloping fuel prices. Today, our parliamentary group, acting consistently enough, proposed another draft decision of the National Assembly, which has already been submitted to the Ministry of Economy, namely: to oblige the Council of Ministers to develop a mechanism for calming the prices of all types of fuels. I am talking about A-95, gas, as well as diesel, at levels of BGN 2.70. for a liter. Our motives regarding the proposal for the establishment of the Temporary Commission are relevant both for today's draft decision which we have submitted to the National Assembly's Ministry and for the proposal for the establishment of the Temporary Commission, because it is extremely important for us to establish absolutely all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. As you know, with the adoption of the Sixth Sanctation Package against the Russian Federation, Member States have accepted the suspension of supplies of crude oil originating from the Russian Federation to the Member States, thus deemed to limit access to fresh financial resources to the Russian Federation as an aggressor, and this resource could be used for military purposes. Two exceptions were granted. One is against the countries that use Russian crude oil under the oil pipeline "Druzhba" and the second is the supplies for "Lukoil Neftohim Burgas" AD. You know that even the Minister of Finance in resignation has requested a derogation. In our view, you blackmailed the European Commission in order to have such a derogation, we have repeatedly claimed that this would be political hypocrisy, because in relation to the supply and suspension of Russian gas, you do not mind, but in relation to the supply of Russian oil, you were so worried and concerned about the market that you even asked for exceptions from the European Commission. With regard to the Bulgarian refinery, it has a terminal for unloading crude oil at the port of Rosenets, on which ships from all over the world can land. It is precisely in this regard that the establishment of such a commission is infinitely necessary to clarify all the facts and circumstances and the reasons why the Bulgarian government stands for the position of the derogation in question from the Sixth Sanctation Package for the refinery, which, once again, I stress, can meet tankers from around the world. Please, these tankers I'm talking about don't mess with those mythical tankers that we've been waiting for over two months for. I remind you that they were supposed to arrive on the 8th and 23rd of June. Those mythical tankers we don't know if they came, with liquefied gas from America, at what prices they were negotiated, yesterday it was claimed that the gas would be delivered at a four-fold lower price. I would remind you that these are allegations from the Prime Minister's chief of staff, as well as from the prime minister himself, after his visit to the United States and unclear with whom meetings were held and agreed. Once again, this is about another type of tanker that delivers oil. It is therefore very necessary for this committee to work, and we have proposed in the motives that it be created on a parietal principle, namely, that we propose: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the fuel manufacturer Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. 2. The temporary committee shall consist of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as well as the following: Chairman:... Members:... 4. The Temporary Commission establishes all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the fuel manufacturer Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. 5. He examined and analyzed the documents related to the establishment of the content, the countries, the subject of the accepted and signed documents, including contracts, by Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers. 6. To establish the reasons for the requested derogation from the European Union for imports of Russian crude oil. 7. The temporary committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 8. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 1 month. Given that it is not clear what the life of the forty-seventh Parliament will be like, we would offer a shorter period for the interim committee to act as an editorial amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, opinion of an importer? Mr. Mirchev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I thank my colleagues from GERB, who managed to overtake us by about 40 seconds in the submission of the draft decision for a commission. We have raised the issue with regard to Lukoil and the problem that exists in the refinery for months. It is particularly important for the Bulgarian economy and especially important for our energy independence. From this point of view, we consider it necessary for the establishment of this commission, whose aim should be to carefully analyse what Bulgaria is capable of delivering, the fuels in Bulgaria at a much lower price in general, the Bulgarian State, for example, to give oil for the refining of the refinery and instead of traders such as Litasko, which are in fact owned by Lukoil, to benefit from the differences in the concessions for the Urals variety, to remain in those we charge at the gas stations. This is also related to our energy independence, which is part of our geopolitical independence, and our opinion is that in order for Bulgaria to be energy independent, there must be zero energy dependence on Russia. The specific solution is: DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to check the circumstances related to an increase in the price of crude oil purchased by Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the management and activity of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, and the actions taken by the state The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to check the circumstances related to an increase in the price of crude oil purchased by.Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the management and activity of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, and the actions taken by the state. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman: Members: 4. The Temporary Commission shall establish all facts and circumstances for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 May 2022 related to the supply of crude oil from a producer to Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, including used intermediaries, the actions taken by the representatives of the state in Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the differences between the stock and purchase price, the management and activity of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. 5. The temporary committee examines and analyzes the documents related to the establishment of the content, the parties and the subject of the documents adopted and signed, including contracts, by the Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers. 6. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work, the facts and circumstances established. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 2 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u179	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. My fellow Members, I am opening the discussion on two projects for a solution so tabled. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Statements, coworkers? Mr. Dimitrov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! A month ago, we proposed to have a committee for Lukoil and colleagues from GERB stopped this proposal. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] They voted, it didn't happen, and this committee could have already been set up, worked. We have proposed that an existing committee take on these functions as well. On the one hand, colleagues are talking about great concern, they are worried about how one lev got lost, lost one lev, and when we said: but, let there be a committee that has been working on this issue since the beginning of June, you voted against. That sounds to me like someone who says things in words, does things in deeds, excuse me. So let's see today from a second try what the result of the vote will be. Colleagues, the more important question is this: there is a problem in the price of fuels in Bulgaria indeed and what can be done? I am listening here to colleagues from GERB one month on this topic, they are very worried, but I did not hear any concrete proposal And we have a few very important very specific things. The first has already been accepted for transparency of the capacities of tax warehouses. Yes, unfortunately, since 1 January 2023, but after many years, this proposal has finally been adopted. We say we need a CDC to check and sanction what we don't have, and which, unfortunately, [[GERB-SDS lines]] Yeah, we don't really have a lot of years that hasn't been accepted. We asked the Ministry of Energy to change the representative of the state because we found, of course, he was appointed at the time of GERB, this is the same person who signed commitments under "Belene" without the consent of the Ministry of Energy, and then it was considered that this is the most appropriate representative of the state in.. Lukoil......................................................... It is weakness, I admit, to the Minister of Energy, colleagues, that this shift for all this time has not taken place, although we have asked a series of questions with which we have shown that this man has no reports of his work, does not take account of his activities, which means that he is also not working in sync with the Ministry of Energy and has not been replaced so far. Yeah, that's really true. This is a weakness of the current Minister of Energy and we, as we say the mistakes of the previous government, are doing the same for the current, in the same way, the same approach. Finally, the result is as follows: the Committee has been delayed on purpose, but now it can be created and I hope it will quickly start functioning and making decisions because, colleagues, fuel prices are indeed a serious case. This stops the development of the economy especially in times of crisis and we need to distinguish two issues from the international aspect and internal problems of Bulgaria, which have had them for many years and they have not been solved. We have to make a decision on both of them. So in the end, I call you to this, not as long as you say... Look, if you're a journalist in a nice Bulgarian newspaper, you can go out and say: I'm very worried about this one left that I'm losing. However, if you are a MP, you should say: I see these three or four solutions. We've told you our decisions. Now, with great excitement, I expect the other parliamentary groups to make their decisions. I call on each group to say how to have more competition, to have more transparency and lower prices on the fuel market. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For lines? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Dimitrov, I listened with attention to your speech and I was under the impression that you are also in the form of opposition in this Parliament. You are proposing solutions, you are insisting that this should be replaced, this legislative initiative should be adopted, but the fact is that for one year, let's say from the life of this Parliament, for eight months now, the price of the fuels that Bulgarian citizens pay and the Bulgarian business pays is growing, and disproportionate to the price of crude oil that is being processed in Burgas. This is what we want to clarify, and that is why we have made our proposal as a parliamentary group here we have not been competing with you, we have been talking about this problem for a long time. Why do Bulgarian citizens pay with leva above the fair price, so to speak, a price that does not correspond to the rise in international oil markets, which is mainly processed in the Burgas refinery? Yes, indeed you have had a legislative initiative that we have also supported to access more players to oil and fuel warehouses, but at the same time, without increasing the capacity of these places where it can be stored. While at the same time it was your parliamentary group and the ruling majority that closed down the State Oil Company, which was created for the main purpose of its warehouses, which have already been built customs warehouses, to have access to the free market, that is to say, more fuel importers can benefit from these built capacities. And agree that what you have proposed and was accepted will not increase access, but will simply be a reference to who can qualify. Well, yes, but when they're on one player on the market, he can fill that capacity and they can't be free so others can turn on and store their fuels. So it is a good intention, but de facto it will not solve any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are you for a line, Mr. Anastasov? Please, you have the floor. Tsoncho Ganev for the third line. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u184	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dimitrov, very seriously: let us elect you chairman of something, we will all be relieved. With every topic that matters to you, don't bother us, because for every topic you talk about cucumbers. Okay, now it's gonna be KPC, it used to be a different topic, where you look, that's what we have to deal with. Yeah, well, no! Now, if we're going to talk about Lukoil Neftohim, you, as a representative of the ruling majority, have plenty of resources to do some work so that the opposition here does not have to ask for such committees to be set up, let alone the more bizarre one, you have to use an opposition instrument to control governance! Because you know very well that there is still a golden share that is in one of your coalition partners across the hall. You know very well that at the moment you, with your participation, have adopted a measure which Bulgarian citizens complain that it is a little difficult to work, especially in smaller towns. And what's worse is that you made such a design of the measure I'm talking about the 25 pennies that basically it gives the big chain of gas stations an advantage and kills the small ones. You know that's what I'm talking about, talking about competition? Because when you talk about the KPC, it is not just your personal ambitions for the KPC, but the question is really what measures are you creating so that there is real competition to create an environment of competition. You were a part of this. As for Lukoil Neftohim, who sold it, who privatized it, at what time, whether you were part of this party, whether you were president of this party, whether you were directly related to the person who privatized it, you can answer your own backs, but we all know the answer in this room. And I ask again: where is the station? We've been having debates all day today. First it was for NATO and the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria, then it was for the Recovery Plan. No one came out here from the government to say two words. Where's the government? Where is your government, Mr. Dimitrov?! Thank you. [[Single lines from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u186	Mr. Dimitrov, I want to tell you that in your speech you said several half-truths and one of the brightest is that you stated here that the Commission, which should be working, has not been convened. I will just remind you that you still have a governing government, you still have a President of the National Assembly. There was no elected chairman of a committee, but you could have called on the President of the National Assembly to convene the Commission, to start working and to appoint a person acting as President. Why didn't you do it yourself, Mr. Dimitrov? Why? It's not good what you're doing. Rather, there is a more appropriate word for a good one, not to use it now, but what you say is, to put it mildly, hypocrisy. With regard to the Minister, you explain well how you asked the questions and how you asked him. Excuse me, were you a ruling coalition until a few weeks ago or not? Who was responsible for the fact that the man appointed by GERB, you didn't fire him for seven months and didn't change him? Are GERB guilty again, or is it that you have no power to do it? I remind you, because you seem helpfully forget to mention it. You are still in charge, the government is now in charge, it is your ministry, your prime minister, and you are also asking questions from this tribune of demagogues and blaming everyone else, but not you. You wanted to bring this problem into a committee that couldn't discuss the other gas problems anyway and what your government did with your Prime Minister and your Energy Minister to get to the point where we didn't have gas. I won't! The same thing about Lukoil is that you are once again helpfully hiding behind GERB. Don't hide! You're exactly the same as them, there's no difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Dimitrov, come on in. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u188	My fellow Members, you have made lines of my speech, and I have called on you to say your specific measures. We from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria have four of these. So, what did we hear from GERB? Not a single measure! What did we hear from the DPS? Not a single measure! So, what did we hear, of course, from Tsoncho Ganev and rebirth? It is clear not a single measure! That's what this is about. Now, as far as the Commission is concerned. We proposed a month ago an existing committee with a GERB chairman Mr. Daniel Mitov to take over this topic in order to be an instrument of the opposition, to benefit the opposition from this issue and after a month there could already be results. But you said that this should not happen, you voted against and you stopped the work of this committee. You've practically ruined it! That's what this is about. To a colleague from GERB who asked me about the tax and tax warehouses. Dear colleague, you are in this Parliament, you have not been in previous. Let me tell you: your colleagues from GERB claimed that there is no problem with tax-related warehouses! We had to sue them, we did cases, they didn't give us information! All the questions about who owns the tax and tax warehouses are ours and they're asked year after year. You claimed that there were no problems, and if you do not believe me, invite your colleague Kiril Ananiev to explain to you how he, because he did not give us this information, we brought a case and we obtained this data through a case and found out who the real owners are and the court guarantees access to information. That's what I'm talking about! But colleagues, once again I would like to return you to the most important content of this conversation. We from the Democratic Bulgaria very carefully listen to GERB's worries about fuel prices. And if it were, as I say, an analysis worthy of some media, we're very nice, but we're waiting to hear the measurements. We ask you: how will you bring down, colleagues, fuel prices? No, no, it's, there should be competition in ideas, competition in measures. Please don't scream out of place, if you have anything to say, please. Because the other is just findings, colleagues. The other is general talk that doesn't lead to results. And otherwise the truth is that in this sector many years on purpose no measures are taken. If you wanted from GERB, don't tell me now that state warehouses could be used in 12 years you could have done it. Why didn't you do it in 12 years? Why didn't you? This company has proposed 2020 and you manage many years before that. I mean, what's this about, guys? It is about systematic reluctance to take measures. This is a matter of systematic reluctance to take measures. That will change, however, that will change. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u189	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Dimitrov, I do remind you that this point is about setting up a temporary committee. Mr. Dobrev, come in for a statement. Naturally, I will also give my colleagues from GERB the opportunity to state their position, but colleagues, let us focus and see whether or not we will accept such committees. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I feel the bitterness and insult in Mr. Martin Dimitrov's voice that this time it wasn't him who was the first to talk about the fuel problem. He's trying to make it look like it was their idea, only their idea was to sweep this subject under the carpet by putting it on the other committee with the middlemen. And notice, colleagues, on the very same day when this committee came up, we submitted our proposal and Mr. Martin Dimitrov as part of the ruling parties in this National Assembly, the ruling majority, one month does not bring the item to the agenda. Mr. Dimitrov, and you are responsible for this job because you, through your Chairman of the group, are taking part in the Chairmanship Council and setting the agenda of the meetings, that is, you are responsible for not even including the topic on the agenda for a month. It's not you, nor am I the first to talk about the problem of Lukoil this year. The truth is, that's what Genka Shikerova did on one of her shows. And then broadcast I tactfully waited a month or two because it was your favorite topic before I raised it myself. But it wasn't until after I picked it up and said it was lost, you came up with some suggestions here for tax warehouses and all kinds of commissions and how the KPC didn't do its job. Twelve years, you forgot to tell me the KPC wasn't doing its job. There is nothing wrong with your proposal for tax warehouses, we supported it. As a matter of fact this is not any measure, it will lead to nothing at all at best, Mr. Martin Dimitrov, and this will show it time, will affect the price within two or three pennies, not 1 leva. So you don't have a proposal for 1 leva. And not to have a proposal, and not to ask for it from the opposition. You say: but why didn't the opposition solve the issue? Well, why would your opposition decide that? You're in charge. You've been in charge for seven months now! In your seven months, this one BGN appeared.! In your seven months. He wasn't there before. Before December last year this 1 BGN. He wasn't there. Since you're in power, the left comes, and every month it gets bigger and bigger, Mr. Dimitrov. You are the rulers and should be responsible for what is happening in Lukoil and not to speak as part of the opposition in this National Assembly. If you want to be an opposition, you can leave your parliamentary group because they clearly do not listen to you either on the agenda or on the problems with Lukoil. You can become an independent MP and speak as I do. And since you asked three or four times, where are your measurements? You don't have any measures. Yes! I'll tell you. I repeat: it is not the opposition's job to do the government's work. However, in this case, we have again submitted a proposal asking the National Assembly to oblige the Council of Ministers to take action. And now I'll tell you, I announced some of the measures in the media two or three weeks ago probably, but you haven't heard from me past the tax warehouses. One of the measures, for example, is to introduce a duty on Russian oil. We're introducing a duty! This 1 lev instead of sending it to the Swiss account, the state will collect it and when it collects 1 lev. The state, the entire lev, not those two or three pennies you're talking about, the state will take 3.5 billion. BGN will give them all, not only to the poor, but also to the business, because inflation is pumped by fuel. In fact, there are three reasons for inflation - the high price of gas, the high price of fuel and the high price of electricity. In the case, in the problem with the high price of electricity, we helped you. The opposition, Mr. Dimitrov, solved your problem with the high price of electricity. Now we're trying to solve the high price of fuel. So one solution is you're putting in a duty, you're collecting 3.5 billion. in the state budget and through the state budget you give compensation. Is it a market decision? It's a market. Second decision, market again. You buy the Ural Oil instead of the Lithuanian Oil. Why is this country lobbying, raping, blackmailing, extorting, not raping, using a bad word, blackmailing the European Commission to have an exception for Russian oil, if the Bulgarian consumer does not earn anything, but wins the Swiss company, the Swiss bank account, which either finances the war in Ukraine, or finances the war in Ukraine, and offshore accounts of politicians, managers and so on. I'm hoping the DANS will check it out one day. That is to say, as Litasko is buying Ural oil, the state is buying Ural oil. Lukoil Neftohim and the state is processing in Lukoil Neftohim. We pay Lukoil Neftohim there 10 20 cents per liter, as much as it costs, the state is processing. The fuel comes out at BGN 2.40, the state puts 10 pennies in profit and sells it at BGN 2.50. Is the money back on the market? You're back! How much will the fuel cost at the gas stations? Two and sixty, two and seventy. Here are two measures. It's a third measure. You're assigning you, you're assigning to the SANS services, you're assigning money intelligence to whatever you have services in the country, to trace the route of money from the Swiss account where they're going, are they going to offshore politicians, are they going to offshore cabinet members, and the moment you catch them, if they go, and the moment you catch them, they'll stop labeling the left. Even before you catch them, they're gonna stop labeling this piece of shit because they're gonna be afraid you're gonna catch them. I can give you at least three more examples of how to return this one left to the consumer with market mechanisms. So I understand your grief that someone else took your fuel theme this time, because it was a convenient gum for your coalition 10 years, but in those 10 years, when you were chewing that gum, there was no problem, and it was from the first day of this government, as well as a problem in many other spheres. But since the first day of this government, the price of diesel and gasoline has risen unwarranted by more than 1 lev. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-DSB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u191	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any lines? Martin Dimitrov, come in, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u192	Mr. Dobrev, we are here to help, so we will immediately assist you with your measures. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Bulgaria cannot unilaterally impose any customs duties. This is a common European policy, that is, your proposal is completely untenable and it is good that you shared it here first so that we can correct you. That is, if you want such a thing - Bulgaria unilaterally cannot impose duties, you can ask the European Commission. So it's nice that you share these things to help you become executable. Because what you want is absolutely impossible. Colleagues, it doesn't matter who was holding a topic. The important thing is to do the job.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u193	Finish her off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u194	Your KPC, chosen by GERB, says that the transparency of tax and tax warehouses and free capacities is a first measure and you in 10 years do not accept it. Now we offer, you support it and you say: "But it is not so important. " - A KPC, which you have chosen, put it in the first place in the measures, people! First of all! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Now, I see the excitement that's maybe a little too much, but I want to tell you one last thing. If you had listened to us, there would have been a committee for Lukoil, you have failed this effort and you know why you failed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u195	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other lines? Come on in, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, a very funny invitation to propose measures, you have proposed three measures, absolutely absurd. In addition to Mr. Dimitrov, I don't know how you can suggest that we raise our own duties? It is very clear to everyone who deals with this topic that Bulgaria cannot do it. So for this measure, it's just a shame that you say it, it's funny. Moreover, if customs duties are lifted, it will go to the price of fuel, so not only will this not decrease, but will increase the price of fuel. So, Mr. Dobrev, for everyone it became clear why Bulgaria is 12 years of this situation. Here, because of such non-working proposals that you make and incompetent, if I may add.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u197	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Let's not give out qualifications, colleagues. For a line, Mr. Gadget? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u198	Dear Mr. Dobrev, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. Chairman! We see how those in charge here already, by the way, by watching how they help you, I will be confused to think that you are a minister of energy, and from Because the government is helping the opposition to come up with better measures to resolve the problems. This is in the circle of the joke, which, unfortunately, is not funny because that's how things work right now. Speaking of customs, my colleagues are trying to change your focus here. Bulgaria has mechanisms to ask such a thing for a decision from the Commission. But let's not forget that during the discussion of the budget, it was from.. We continue the Change...................... that the Change.. has admitted that there is this left and that it runs towards Switzerland. Also, since you are so opposed to adopting any measures, why, for three months, April, May by mid-June, you blocked the adoption of a decision of the European Council, only for Bulgaria to import oil from the Russian Federation. And when they say that Russian gas supported the war in Ukraine, why don't they say the same thing about Russian oil and continue to want and to increase? By the way, your third plan and proposal was for the services to do their job. The services have partially done their job. There is a report submitted to the National Assembly's Business Office, and I call on all who are currently trying to say a few smart things on this subject to read it. Because it says the answers that you're emphasising.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u199	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, what became clear from the lines of two of the ruling parties? They concentrated on the duty, they didn't say about Swiss accounts, they didn't say about offshore accounts. They don't say a word like I didn't talk about it. They don't say why the state should buy cheap Russian oil at $70.80 and, as Litasko, to produce its shell in Lukoil Neftohim. Nothing on that subject either! Why? Maybe because that's where the answer to all these questions lies. But Mr. Dimitrov, I'll tell you about the duty something else. I was aware that you would both react in this way to the duty and this is exactly the reaction I expected. But do you know what my back is? That there was a duty and an embargo on Russian oil. He wasn't allowed, was he? As it is not allowed to impose a duty, so it was not allowed to buy Russian oil, only for Russian oil you made a path to Brussels. You made a path to the European Commission, blackmailed the European Commission in order to buy Bulgaria Russian oil so that Lukoil and Litasko could take 3.5 billion. per year. However, when it comes to a duty to protect the Bulgarian consumer and reduce his gasoline by 1 lev, you will not make a path to the European Commission. That's the difference. So, when it comes to defending the interests of Lukoil Neftohim and of Litasko, your government has made a path to Brussels. We are the only country in the European Union that has access to the sea and which has received an exception from the ban on buying Russian oil. The one and only! Because of the fact that you said that if we are not allowed, we will stop all decisions of the European Commission here. In other words, you blackmailed the European Commission to allow Bulgaria. In whose favor?! For the benefit of Litasko, of Lukoil Neftohim. Because the Bulgarian consumer did not receive one dollar discount of these 3.5 billion. And now, when it comes to a duty, which is still limited by the European Commission, as well as buying Russian oil, we haven't seen you buy a plane ticket to Brussels, not make a path there to ask for an exception to the rules. And these are not just the specific proposals, Mr. Dimitrov, for reducing oil prices. There are at least three more, but I don't see the point in listing them to you, because ultimately the responsibility for the government bears this government, your coalition. And today I will say it for the second time: my personal opinion, my hope is that you will continue to rule for at least another 6 months. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u201	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For a statement? Mr. Gechev. Colleagues, I appeal to go back to the subject of this point, and it is the creation of two committees. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u202	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I look and I don't believe my ears?! Once I explained, now I will explain a second time: it is amazing what is being said here in the Chamber of Parliament. First of all, this is the third time. They also mentioned colleagues here. Ladies and gentlemen, foreign trade policy is done by Brussels by law. The Republic of Bulgaria cannot introduce any duties and any excise duties, it can offer and Brussels decides. One. Secondly, even if Brussels decides to increase customs duties, well, good day! What happens to gasoline and diesel when you give it a 5 or 10% duty? Where does this duty go? Who's gonna pay for it? Your aunt from Saudi Arabia? No! We who are on the column! How are you going to introduce the myth and reduce the prices? This is amazing, something unheard of! So neither Bulgaria can introduce duties and excise duties, nor the price will decrease, it will increase! So forget those myths. Thirdly, this piece of paper I have already explained once, I am explaining the second time and the last time. This left is pre-election, it is contrary to sound economic sense for the following reason. Ladies and gentlemen, go online. The production of oil in Saudi Arabia 1 barrel of oil costs between 4 and 6 times cheaper as production costs from oil in Siberia, because, ladies and gentlemen, oil in Siberia is deep, and Saudi Arabia is shallow, which is why production costs are lower. What do you want from Saudi Arabia now, six bucks to put you back in the budget? You, by going to buy, explain in affordable language, tomatoes, do you ask the stall how much it costs to produce tomatoes? Well, it's his business. He tells you the price is 5 leva. Well, then, the other companies selling gasoline and diesel in Bulgaria, what are they selling at? And where did they get the oil? He was either from Russia by now, or he was from Saudi Arabia, or from other countries here, from North Africa. Who told you that the petrol and diesel salesman will tell you what his expenses are and reduce his profits? But you're not saying anything else. It is logical that if the producer of petroleum products has lower production costs due to cheaper oil, its profit should be higher, shouldn't it? If the costs are lower, the profit will be high. However, colleagues from GERB, 12 years you did not take 1 penny profit from Lukoil. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From this tribune, I have raised the question at least 6 times, personally, I have records here, and I have criticised that the National Revenue Agency, the Minister of Finance, had several questions about Mr. Goranov and the other. And I asked him why there wasn't a penny profit from Lukoil?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u203	And the answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u204	What was the answer? They're at a loss! The only refinery in the world of loss?! For 12 years! Now, for the first time in the last year, they're making a profit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u205	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u206	There, ten million. So it doesn't make any sense, there's no lev, there's no difference. It should be wagered with a higher profit if there is a higher profit. That's the question. So stop your campaigning. And then what comes out? That some ambassadors of Bulgaria have gone and how you say they have lied, have raped.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u207	Blackmailed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u208	They have seduced the European Commission. Or maybe they corrupted her! So, the whole of Europe are morons because some Bulgarians have gone to tell them two more years to import the oil. [[Heckling]] What's the problem with oil? Bulgaria must secure oil, which has secure supplies and at an affordable price. Whether oil is from Saudi Arabia, whether it's from Libya, whether it's from Russia, it doesn't matter at all. Just one of your bosses who were hunting, eating and drinking with the bosses of Lukoil before we looked at their pictures, just when they asked how they had the preferences for Lukoil! So, pull yourself together! There's no lev, there's no myth to upload. Pull yourself together and think before you talk. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u209	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Alexander Ivanov for a replica, Iskren Mitev for a second. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Gechev! I can't believe this metamorphosis that we've been witnessing lately regarding your talk about Lukoil Neftohim. I remember the 44th People's Assembly really "Lukoil" was a theme for you. I recognise it as a member of the Budget Committee, we have commented on this topic many times. But I can't believe that now you're not impressed by this one lev, which in the last year appeared at the price of petrol-ponds above the price that corresponds to the oil outputs and processed in Lukoil! How did this suddenly disappear as a topic for you? Aren't you interested? I thought you'd be more persistent in your quest why not Lukoil, but those companies that have appeared in the last year, Mr. Gechev, take a lev from the Bulgarian citizens above the price of gasoline. Obviously, since you have a Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs and Members of the Council of Ministers from BSP, this is no longer the topic.. You are starting to talk about Saudi Arabia. All this is very nice, but we have focused and offer your attention to support, I hope, this committee, which is extremely important to us because it will give answers to the Bulgarian citizens as well. Why did companies appear that are processing, delivering, and then the gas company's theft is not 150 million. BGN, which you from the budget gave for compensation 25 pennies per litre of fuel, well, it's 10 million. lv. a day, that's 300 million. lv. per month someone realizes as over-profit or unjustified profit, and you do not discuss this topic. I think it is extremely important that we clarify this subject. Meet the NSA's classified report. We want to do this, expose this scheme to the government in this committee to help Bulgarian citizens and businesses and reduce the cost of fuel in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor. The third line is for Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Gechev, we have analyzed the fuel prices in 100 countries and it turns out that the average increase in fuel worldwide is 42%. In Bulgaria, fuel prices rose 37%. And because you gave a few free lessons here to the people of GERB, can you explain to them that in fact one of the reasons why the average increase in the world is greater than the average increase in the price in Bulgaria is actually the low excise duty and the low duty and is actually an absolute counterpoint of what they said. Again, this is absolutely unfounded, their proposal is absolutely not working. On another matter of your own. There was a suggestion from the stands that he was going out somewhere in 1 leva, going into someone's account. In fact, because this issue is raised quite often by this tribune, it became clear to one another 1 BGN, which goes somewhere, but there is very clear where it goes. One municipality of GERB Sofia Municipality pays private companies with 1 BGN. More than he paid the municipal companies, or it was the other way around. Can you remind us: this 1 leva. In which account is it going and there is no longer clear who are the people behind this municipality and in this party and where is this money going? And thirdly, should all businesses in Bulgaria receive a margin, Mr. Gechev, who is more than 1 BGN, be worried that Mr. Dobrev and GERB will come for their businesses, will make committees to understand why they have 1 BGN. a margin. All manufacturers and traders of tomatoes, cucumbers, pies and everything are hundreds of thousands of goods, probably millions of goods in Bulgaria, which have a margin of 1 BGN, should there be a commission that will establish the margins of all businesses in Bulgaria and will tell who is profiting? Please, Mr. Gechev, give another free lesson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u213	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor here for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor, you said that we have been consistent and have always sought this profit for the state of Lukoil and raised the curtain that this profit GERB has never delayed it because there was no profit. During the management of GERB, there is still no loss for the state. And you said about these friendly relations "The boss of Lukoil" and Borisov went hunting, but they, these relations, did not mention that they were much more serious. First of all, they were card partners, something they both recognized, second of all, Professor, we're talking about a much more serious business relationship. If I'm not mistaken, correct me, but you didn't say in your statement which company was guarding the pipes of Lukoil. Isn't that the company that you used to work for? Isn't that a warm business relationship? How can we accept the criticism of GERB for some intimate relationship with Lukoil, when they are the only party whose leader on any line has demonstrated not only close and friendly, but also other economic and serious business relations? So in this sense I do not understand GERB's behaviour, and you were not critical enough and sharp enough in your speech. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u215	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Do you want to do the doppelganger, Professor Gechev? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! There was reason in the lines colleagues dealing with offshore accounts, Swiss, security guards, I wouldn't do that. If you have information about offshore accounts, find them and convict them. It is true and here I am pleasantly surprised by the colleagues who have confirmed that I have actually spoken several times and had questions to the Minister of Finance, and this lev has not been found. Let me also remind you that I have provided information that the same oil that comes to the company in Nis here in neighbouring Serbia, that there are tens of millions of dollars in Serbia's treasury, 35 million in Serbia's treasury, the same oil that goes there, and in Bulgaria for 12 years, I repeat, not a penny. Colleagues, I went personally to the NRA to see the former boss: Good afternoon! It is clear that someone has ordered not to pay profit tax and now we are looking for 1 BGN. You won't find that left. Please do not mislead the Bulgarian public. No money! You, if you take 1 lv. from the imports of oil from Russia, you should take 6 leva. from Saudi Arabia's oil imports. I've announced you, look online. Russian oil is expensive as production, as it is extracted from great depth. It's a simple common culture. You won't find any left. A question was then asked here as regards the claim. There is no way you would want the state to regulate the profit margin, as other companies in Bulgaria also sell at high profit. However, Lukoil is not a monopoly on the Bulgarian market. There are imports of fuels from all over Europe that also sell at these prices. You cannot put a fixed price for fuels on a free market where dozens of companies import here and sell different types of petroleum products. The truth is, I repeat, the economic logic, if any firm is its business, it is competition, if they want to find their oil at 10 cents a barrel, it is her business, the point is that if it has a cheap raw material, there should be a high profit, and if there is a high profit, they should pay taxes to the Bulgarian treasury. So there's no way to look under the ox here. 12 years you slept, one penny you didn't take from the refinery in Burgas, the only one in the world that didn't pay profit tax, now you're looking for some lev that doesn't exist and can't exist. So stop with the election rhetoric and don't fool the users. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u217	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are you here for procedure, Mr. Minchev? Here you go. Colleagues from GERB, because there are at least four of you who have said speeches, please tell me in what order? Mrs. Atanasova, Temenuzhka Petkova, Alexander Ivanov and Hristo Gazhev in what order will you decide?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend today's plenary session until the end of point 6 of the Programme, i.e. this point, which concerns the Temporary Commission, and the next point, which is for the Temporary Committee on Interconnector and South Stream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u219	Thank you, Mr. Minchev. Colleagues, reverse proposal or other proposals regarding an extension of time today? I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Minchev to extend the time of plenary today to the conclusion of item 6 of the weekly Programme. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 114 against 56, abstention 30. That's how the offer is accepted. To speak, Mrs. Atanasova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! There are far more expert speeches from our parliamentary group, which I hope you will hear, only that I take attitude and allow myself to speak, because there have been total untruths, not to tell lies, from the parliamentary tribune in terms of facts that, however much you try to bend, you will neither succeed nor need to try. There is much talk about what committees are being set up, when they are being set up, and by whom they are being set up. I can refresh the memory of some of my colleagues and specifically one of them that GERB is absolutely consistent when making such proposals, and here I believe that there is none of the negotiators who can oppose the truth, because has GERB proposed a commission for Gemcorp? Did you propose? Propose. For how many months this item was neither on the agenda of the National Assembly, whatever procedures were used by us, and therefore you, the honourable rulers, by the power of the majority, rejected any possibility of this happening. At the moment, thank God, this committee already exists. Something more important, this committee is in session. Moreover, in this committee, the MPs who are members of it draw their conclusions thanks to various sources, including secret DANS reports. This one first. Two. How many attempts does GERB make to set up a commission for intermediaries in gas?! How much?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u221	There's talk of oil. Enough with the gas!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u222	More than a month! Who backed her up? Who, by the power of the majority, rejected the proposal at all to be considered in plenary, again the majority, who apparently have a dual role and now believe that they are opposition. That's just what they sound like. Again, this committee has been working. Again, this committee refers to sources that are reports of the special services. And surely, when her work is completed, you will all be very seriously surprised, I would even say puzzled, by the conclusions that will be heard or read in the Report of this committee, the committee that we are now discussing. This issue was proposed by the National Assembly in June. June! Then again, the majority, of which you are currently trying, dear ones, as if to break up, did not allow it to enter into the agenda for discussion. This majority, I repeat, has not allowed this to become an item on the agenda for more than a month. And why, gentlemen, if you have the opportunity under art. 47, para. 3 or para. 8, this hasn't been used in these over a month, possibilities? Why could you not prevail over your coalition partners to become the item on the agenda? Why? Because it is easiest for someone to come out of the parliamentary tribune and talk about the 12 years of GERB. It's the easiest! [[Noise and lines.]] However, he missed that during these 12 years of GERB, for example, he was chairman of a committee. But did you, Mr. Dimitrov, specifically to you, please give me a reply or take a personal explanation, have you been Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy as part of the Reformation Block and this committee GERB chose it then? And when you were chairman of this committee, what did you do for Lukoil's golden campaign?! What did you do?! Please answer me! By the way, you were co-chair of their parliamentary group back then. The next topic is the Commission for Protection of Competition, again. So, one topic is 12 years GERB, the other topic is KPC. Gentlemen, don't you have a member in this body, the Commission for Protection of Competition, from the Reformation Block? [[Noise and lines.]] No?! What about Mr. Krasimir Vitanov? What is he like and where he came from? Isn't that your suggestion? [[Noise and lines.]] I will draw up the proposal of the Reformation Block to fill in the Commission. And did this gentleman ever tell you there was a problem at Lukoil or not? And let me stress now for everyone else who will probably wish to make any comments that in this committee representatives have the parliamentary groups that were in the National Assembly when a composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition was elected. GERB does not have a majority, GERB has only an broadcast chairman. [[Noise and lines.]] And since people who don't understand this matter are trying to replicate me here, I'm just going to tell you, Honourable, that decisions in this committee are not taken by the President, but unanimously, for your information. Because you haven't even read the Law. From then on, I'd like to stress that my aunt in Saudi Arabia doesn't have one. Besides, I don't go hunting, I don't go fishing, because that's what was said. However, I do remember that your leader, honourable colleagues from the left room, is still the wife of a man who worked at the Lukoil. In this sense, should you not state any conflict of interest? I don't know, you decide. But that's within the joke. I advise you to choose a composition of this committee. It may have the opportunity to work within a month or, if it remains less at this National Assembly, to shorten the deadline because, yes, there is also a report by the National Assembly on this occasion in the Secret Office of the National Assembly. Just because you haven't read it does not mean that it does not confirm much of the conclusions that we have already drawn about one lev, the conclusions that every fuel user makes on a daily basis when charging the fuel column, although you have invented and voted on some inadequate measure of 25 cents, which does not apply to more than 60 So much for your fuel measures. With regard to the decisions that GERB should have proposed. It is good that on several occasions it has already been recalled that we are opposition, and you are ruling. You! In seven months, how many decisions have you proposed? When discussing high electricity prices for domestic consumers, a commission was created to analyse. This committee never worked. It is a good thing that our parliamentary group proposed a moratorium on the price of electricity for domestic consumers, which you were so applauding, that only after that you boasted that it was your measure. Secondly, in the transitional and final provisions of the budget, of your unsuccessful budget, because of which and because of all your financial policy the government has fallen, we have offered compensation for non-resident consumers, for business, hospitals, municipalities, temples and so on. We, the opposition, not anyone else, dear rulers! Otherwise the business would have gone bankrupt. We are now proposing a third measure - creating a mechanism to stop the increase in fuel prices at 2.70. And again, people who would say that they didn't have too much expertise come out to say that these were some populist measures, that they couldn't do that. Well, just two days ago, your finance minister resigned to the Council of Finance Ministers in Brussels suggested an identical thing. Come on, open the media to see if there is such a proposal to its European partners. I believe that we should focus on the measures that are important to Bulgarian citizens. The fact that you have missed inflation and that you are not offering absolutely any adequate solutions is clear to all. However, it is better now to set up a committee that will examine these facts and circumstances relating not only to one lev, but also why people from the government have lobbied before the European Commission. I have an explanation. And that's how one lev is distributed somewhere. But perhaps the committee will clarify how, why and whether you, for seven months, wrestlers with cartels and unfair competition, do not make it easier for this one lev to fall into some accounts. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u223	There are three lines. First is Mr. Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I will hold on to a part of your speech where you said: we will be very seriously surprised, even puzzled. Yes, Mrs. Atanasova, we are very seriously surprised and very puzzled how for one month of GERB you are talking about a lev, which is the profit of a private company. Mrs. Atanasova, look around you, the time of Boyko Borisov, in which the state twisted hands and took 30% of all businesses to be able to work is over. It's over, Mrs. Atanasova, her time will never be again. If you want facts because we're talking about facts, one left that's hidden, none, Mrs. Atanasova. And I cannot understand why you are looking for it there and not try to be happy that Bulgaria finally has a position in the European Union and can negotiate a derogation for things that you would never be able to talk about. Thank you. And this one lev is in the account of the companies that work, who pay their taxes and so should be, and not yours, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u225	Next line, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Atanasova, I understand you're showing me your back and this beautiful design, perhaps from Antony Gaudi from Barcelona, but some got villas, luxury boutiques, you just a costume. I hope it's not for 4,000 leva. [[Noise and lines.]] First it's called opposition, not opposition. For Mr. Dobrev is a duty, not a duty, more precisely a duty, not a duty. What you tried with a very large pathos to speak and edifyingly... In fact, you should look at what GERB has done in 12 years, but most of all the last five years, when the forty-fourth National Assembly held a full term. About the Reformation Block, which I was part of, well, it was the Reformation Block, and it stopped many of the Zulus that had been prepared back then. Anyone can check and see. But that's not important. It is really important what you managed to do in five years with this country and all the scandals that your leader Borisov and his friend Valyo Zlatev blew up. But what is the biggest problem is that in GERB you do not see the problem that you have created and which the government is trying to solve the last few months, but you are also actually trying to scream: We hear from Mr. Dobrev about one lev, almost about the Swiss bank accounts, where some profit was being poured into. Take out the evidence! Give them to your friend Ivan Geshev. He'll be happy to pick up whoever he can, that's for sure. So don't throw away this tribune of lies about something that isn't true and it's just political talk. Yes, from this tribune, the Constitution protects you and allows you to say whatever you want, but you must also be responsible to the people who listen to us. So a little humbler and more humble, as you are edifying yourself here, and you are trying to be virgins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u227	There is a request for a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and is towards you. I will ask you, when this tribune begins to pour out the volitional one to tell what he thinks and to use suggestions that are ugly and that insult the audience because they were both ugly and offensive, and among other things they are unsupported and not based on facts, but on someone's perhaps advanced fantasy, or perhaps a sick brain, interrupt them. I regret this, because what is happening right now in this House is exercising in some unnecessary election rhetoric that takes us away from the meaning of the debate, and we should focus on voting on the committee in question if we are all convinced that it is necessary to have it. I will not mention your name, my dear colleague, because I really cannot allow myself to hear once again what you are telling us perhaps on every day of captivity and without absolutely any need. I really don't have to. It's insulting. By the way, with your words and suggestions you insult, first of all, yourself, because you show how you think, how you see yourself in a particular situation and what you would like to be a part of. I guess you couldn't. Be humble! The time will come for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u229	I'd say you kind of have a point, but whatever calls comes up. [[Heckling]] Mr. Dobrev had the third line stated in advance. Let's hear the third line, and then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u230	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, in fact, in your speech you neglected to note that the government confirms the thesis that we express from this tribune that the fuels in Bulgaria are expensive, that there is more than one lev difference above the normal market price, and explain it by saying that it was normal for them to earn their money there. In other words, for the government it is normal 3.5 billion. lv. to be taken from the pocket of Bulgarian consumers because they would pay 350 million tax. Well, then let's give money to everyone, because when we give it to them, they'll write it down and pay it! I mean, do you understand how funny this tax thing is? The calculations show that we're overpaying 200 million. Euros a month, but you see, we're relieved by the fact that to those 200 million they're going to be worth 7 million. lv. tax. And why hasn't the profits been made in the last 10 years? Well, they were gone because the gasoline and diesel were 1.50. I remember him. I've been charging at 1.50 diesel. [[speaking indistinctly]] , 2 leva, 2.50. With 130 dollars of oil in 2012, petrol and diesel never reached 3 BGN. They couldn't make it to 30% more expensive oil. 50% more expensive than the Ural oil it currently buys. So now the Ural Oil is $70, you write it, we pay nearly BGN 4. for gasoline and diesel. In 2012, Ural oil was 130 dollars, you estimate how much it is, but gasoline and diesel were less than 3 leva. To calm ourselves by the fact that someone has won a lot, but will pay taxes there is nothing, but the Bulgarian consumer will pay, it is not normal. Well, if you're gonna make a lot of money on this job, the state will. I told you that. Nobody said anything about that. Why didn't the state buy barrels, pay the price at Lukoil Neftohim and the state win the 3.5 billion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u231	Mr. Dobrev, I didn't understand your line. [[(Reply from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev: I do not agree.]] That was a statement. Do you want a hole, Mrs. Atanasova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Dobrev, I really missed saying that. Thanks for the note you made me. Yes, I neglected to say that in the so-called model, Mr. Borisov, esteemed colleague Mitev, the price of gas until last year did you know how much it was? Thirty leva per megawatt hour. How much is it now? One hundred and eighty-six leva is yesterday. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] How much was the gasoline and diesel at the model Borisov during those 12 years? The highest levels last year are BGN 2.08. Check it out. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] How much is it now? Almost £4. And that you don't notice the difference before and now, I assure you, people notice it. You'll see soon enough. The other replicator. Sir, you have no idea what neogothic means, but you probably have what surrealism means. [[Noise and lines.]] And that's the only thing you can in any way touch Gaudi. For example, surrealism is that in 2016 you are almost dragging your belly into GERB headquarters and want to be Chairman of the Transport Commission. [[(Early applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u233	Procedure, Mr. Anastasov. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, can you be quiet? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u234	Mr. Chairman, it's true, it's hard to delete history. I refer to you as a prominent Euro-Atlantic because I know that you are one and you are one, not to allow, when discussing a serious subject with which there is a very serious problem, by the way, a large part of the room to do that you do not understand what is being said and thus defend the interest of Lukoil and, on the other hand, part of the Chamber to protect other Russian companies. Here we have a representative of the Neftogas, who has been in Neftogas service for many years. Please do not allow on topics that affect national security, this tribune to become an arena of clashes of Russian oligarchic interests. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u235	All right, we're gonna have to find out who they are. Mr. Dimitrov, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u236	Mr. Chairman, I want to bring things back to the serious conversation. I was mentioned personally by Mrs. Atanasova and to tell her a few things she has forgotten. When the Commission for Protection of Competition was elected, Mrs. Atanasova, I and a group of MPs proposed Georgi Ganev an outstanding expert, and then you did not choose him. You didn't choose it because you thought there was no need for such people in the Commission for Protection of Competition. Right? That's a reminder, you know, because it's a little rusty! A man who was an assistant to the Nobel Prize in Economics! We don't have many of those, guys! Another important fact. As early as 2016, I proposed that the capacity of the tax warehouses be public and declared. You have rejected this bill, ladies and gentlemen. You rejected it. Fact. Let's get things back to a serious conversation. The other serious question is this and I wonder how it does not bother you. In 2020, the Commission for Protection of Competition carried out an on-the-spot check. And imagine if there was a cartel in the fuel market, colleagues, how would we do? If there were people like Georgi Ganev in this institution, there would be sanctions, measures, actions, emphasis. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not turn this conversation into some sort of elementary conversation, but look at its seriousness. If I were you and I had chosen the Commission for Protection of Competition, which has had these results for six years, I would be very worried. If my Commission for Protection of Competition, which I have chosen, had one on-the-spot check for a whole year, because there was a coat, and at the same time the NRA and the Commission for Consumer Protection have done thousands of inspections, colleagues, I would be worried. So I'm asking you to do this, and let's look for solutions and be serious. Enough of this nonsense, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u237	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, I didn't hear your name. [[Heckling]] All right, we're gonna lose two more minutes. Let's see what you're dissatisfied with.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u238	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way of conduct and you are, in fact, the person who can confirm the lie of Dessislava Atanasova, who spoke about 2016. I was elected President of the Transport Commission as the only option of the Reformation bloc to which this commission was due after Grozdan Karadjov resigned. And since you were there then, you know very well how the decision was made. But if you are dragging on the ground in GERB to become chairman of committees, it is very unfortunate. I understand that Barcelona hurts you, Barcelona hurts you very much, but understand each other who gets a villa and who gets a suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u239	The next statement is written by Mr. Rumen Hristov. [[Heckling]] Have you given up, Mr. Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u240	I wanted a line, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u241	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I did ask for a line, but since I'm listed as a speaker, I'm going to say a few words. Lukoil's shadow has fallen on Bulgaria since the privatization itself. I will not comment on why and how the owner of Neftohim Burgas became Lukoil and not Shell. What I was going to ask Mrs. Atanasova, I will now direct him to the entire room. Yes, in fact, in the last 12 years in which he has managed GERB, no profit tax has been paid by Lukoil. Can you tell me, colleagues on the left, what tax profit did Lukoil pay at the time of Mr. Stanishev? Has he been paid and how much has he been paid then? Why is it not paid not only in the management of the Political Party GERB, but also in the management that was dominated by you and had your Prime Minister? Colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and the Blue Coalition, it's good to blame, but let's blame ourselves for admitting these things when we were part of the government. Mrs. Atanasova, nicely asked my colleague Dimitrov if he was Chairman of the Economic Commission, but he was Chairman of the Economics and Energy Committee. They were together then because the Ministry was the Ministry of Economy and Energy and was headed by Mr. Traicho Traikov. So let's set up this committee, do the work it's been chosen for, answer some of the questions, because we can't answer all the questions and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u243	And thank you, Mr. Christov. Is there a line to Mr. Christov? [[Heckling]] I won't. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, thank you very much for this speech. I was wondering, would anyone say that out loud? And the one who was supposed to say it was either you or the colleagues from DB. Honor makes you say it, because we older people know who's taking Lukoil, we know history then, and we know that from the first day of this privatisation it's an agony. The Bulgarian economy was put in agony and this was done by the government of Ivan Kostov. The government of Ivan Kostov, by the way, made the administrative reforms in Bulgaria, gentlemen of DB, and the breakdown of the administrative structure of Bulgaria was started then, and that is why we are currently in this situation to have natural monopolies privatized and to have administrative structures that do not function. That was conceptual. I really thank Mr. Christov for finding the strength to say it. But we're interested in whether the CBI will find the strength to apologize, whether the CBI will find the strength, because of what... The problems we are facing right now, colleagues, have not started 12 years ago. They started 25 years ago and we all know the name of the one who started the problems, we all know where it all started, we know that in the last 12 years this country has been trying hard to get itself together. And if we're gonna start with excuses and penances, that part of the room, please, come over here and start apologizing one by one. [[Inserts MPs from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.]] Thank you again, Mr. Christov. [[Replies from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u245	I was sure Ivan Kostov's powers... [[National Representative Daniel Mitov wants a reply.]] A line? You are welcome to say something and you were Vice-President of Ivan Kostov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was Vice-President of the State Security Department 10 years later. So I don't know exactly what I should apologize for. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Hristov, because to you is my line, another thing you should have explained and I think it is nice to say is that this debate is very illustrative about where the parties are positioned purely philosophical in the categories left and right. Having had this dispute, one part of the Chamber, which, by the way, in the words of one of the respected colleagues from BSP, proposed a budget of Asen Vassilev's budget, she described it as a product of targeted left policy. I agree with her. At that moment, this budget was the product of targeted left-wing policy. When we are arguing at the moment, the idea that citizens should be loaded with additional costs, and not trying to cut their fuel prices just so that some tax can be paid in the budget so that it can then be redistributed by the government, is also a product and philosophy of targeted left policy. Here's your clear division right, which says you need to ease the burden on the citizens and ultimately the redistribution to go through the business so that citizens can pay less for the fuel, the business to pay less, and then the market to decide, and those who want the citizens and the business to pay as much as possible to be able to then have something that they can redistribute. This is a clear division between left and right. By the way, deputisation does not go through asking for derogations for exports of Russian oil within the European Union. This I do not understand at all how, on the one hand, part of the House wants deputation and is part of the ruling majority and at the same time protects Lukoil. This same ruling majority and this same government. These two discussions I wanted to do, Mr. Hristov, otherwise I agree with the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u247	Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Hristov, you must tell us where you were when the privatization took place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was at the SDS, where I am now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u249	There you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u250	I won't comment on privatization. This was a very difficult but necessary process because the requirement for membership of the European Union was for Bulgaria to have a dominant market economy. There is no way we can have a dominant market economy with 95% state ownership. It's been a very difficult process. It had to happen. We've made mistakes. One of the mistakes I think, in my humble opinion, is Lukoil. Charges to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, who was from the UDF, do not make, I say we have made mistakes. Otherwise, Mr. Mitov, you are absolutely right, I have no explanation as to how the so-called final right in the face of my colleagues at the DSB is currently with the left of the BSP. We, as representatives of the SDS, a large part of our colleagues from the SDS have been part of the SDS, we have as the main opponent the left in the face of the BSP. Therefore, your question is absolutely legitimate: how one works with the other, but they must explain it to their constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u251	Mr. Hristov, I wouldn't take an explanation to get off the stand because there's no one to replace me here. Definitions as the ultimate right hand are absolutely unacceptable. The next recorded statement is Mr. Nestorov from the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, do you know why we are having such a long debate here right now? Because, honourable Members, the current government has rebuilt the state because, honourable colleagues, the Ministry of Finance and their wards, the Ministry of Economy and their wards have not done their job. That's why we're having this debate. Now you say: where are your measures? Colleagues, we've made you a budget. We're making you a law. Since February we have asked Assen Vassilev to come here for a hearing, to say about inflation, about raising the prices, part of which is fuel, and it is not coming. Including from the stands, they're covering for him. Do you know why he's not coming? The worst part is this because he has nothing to say. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u253	Are there any lines to Mr. Nestorov? I can't see. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor.]] Mr. Atalay, it would have been a pass for you not to speak on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u254	Without such remarks, it is not correct at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u255	I'm saying it with respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I particularly respectfully address you because, Mr. President, the topic of the debate today was essentially to make it so that we could set up a temporary committee, and on a proposal of two political formations, another committee, and you know that there is one statement that when you don't want a job done, create a committee. I have tried to count how many committees we have set up in this Parliament so far, and I couldn't count them. This means that the more committees, the less work. And is there any committee that came up with a report here to the MPs? There is also no such committee with a report, but I expect it to happen soon. In that order of thought, fellow Members, we have come to the point of debate. The case of Lukoil is indeed very interesting, since its privatisation. I don't know why you as a participant in those years didn't take the floor. Mr. Chairman, I am saying to you, when it was necessary to really change ownership in the country, and what the UDF did then, the first years, with the great desire to introduce the market mechanism, privatisation really had to take place, had to happen. Without privatization, there was no way to... Without the change of ownership, this country could not continue to exist. Why am I telling you this? Because I have been listening for a long time how during the time of GERB the price under market conditions at $130 a barrel price, the price was 2.60 " 2.70 and came to some long talks and I remembered that during the time of Todor Zhivkov was 0.26 cents. If we keep going back like this when there was no gas and the state must have only been going on live power, then it must have been quite cheaper. We have come, Mr. Chairman, to this position to speak from this tribune who wears what clothes, especially I find it very interesting, Mr... let me not tell him his name that he will again come out to take a personal explanation, long years ruling along with the Reformation bloc, with GERB, it turns out that no taxes have been paid by..Lukoil, he was the chairman of this committee. So as I'm listening, we've come to ask ourselves which of the coworkers is a virgin and if there are any coworkers who are virgins. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u257	Well, a little more... if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u258	It all happened in this room...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u259	We're not a doctor's office here, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u260	...and you didn't take any kind of attitude. You didn't get any attitude! Purely and simply the idea, the agenda of society today is: why are fuel prices in Bulgaria so high? I do not agree with GERB that, from here, from this tribune, we asked the Prime Minister to ask for a derogation so that he could work in Bulgaria - Neftohim, even though it was Russian - Neftohim, to have fuels for two or three more years, because now, if also Neftohim, did not work as the gas from.................................................................. I'm sure we'd be marching somewhere else. You understand the seriousness of this job, don't you? The fact that we have received a derogation and now we want a committee in this committee to understand why, after the derogation, the price of fuels still continues to rise is it a market mechanism, or is it speculation, we do not want anything else. [[Reply: "Specula! "]] If it is speculation, let the government now go out with its institutions and say why, where and how it happened, and they are gone. Right? Instead of looking for the Litmus, we could at least look for where what was happening to the institutions. It's very serious! Especially with the situation not around.Lukoil, the situation with fuels, with the prices that are increasing in spite of the Bill of Rights and Freedoms....................... the situation of electricity prices..... and still GERB cannot break their language to say: yes......................................... Now you want us to give you how and how to do so that... Look, $130 couldn't have cost $2.60, $2.70, and today it's $84 a barrel, it's $3.60. Something's wrong! We will therefore support the Commission. This time it is not in Denmark, this time it is in the Bulgarian Parliament, and it is especially so, as I see, in the centre of the hall, even together with the participation of the very left and the very right. [[Private applause from DPS.]] Colleagues, the KPC is that institution that's been dealing for years with whether there's a cartel or not. There is one report, but from this report we couldn't understand why, how and how we created such a legal base that even the KPC couldn't find out if there were cartels. We're also going back to this room for the laws we make here with you. There may be a lot more to say on this issue, however, my request is to stop, to set up this committee, let this committee, however, for a very short time, because so, even if there is a new government created, even if this government tries in any way to erase all the mistakes that it has made so far, at least the Commission to come out with a report and try to reduce and look if it is a lev, Mr. Dobrev, whether it is 0.99 pennies or 1.50 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u261	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines to Mr. Atali? I can't see. Any other speeches? For a statement, Mr. Anastasov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u262	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am really surprised at the passivity of the largest group in this room, namely the one whose finance minister is. He was the one who made loud statements about how Lukoil was put on the rails, how they started paying taxes. By the way, I call on one of you to come out and give me a line on exactly how much taxes Lukoil paid for last year and how much this one paid. I will explain the difference between the advance tax and the actual tax paid at the end of the year. I sincerely hope that it does not turn out that there is some arrangement to advance tax for political purposes, and finally to prove that the tax is returning [[Shouts by MP Mustafa Karadayi]] Which is a clean game with a Russian company under sanctions. You know what this is about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u263	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u264	I summon you! Here, Mr. Sabrutev, I see him all the way across the hall, the other colleague behind him, where they were shaking hands with joy. Hello! Here you go, but I want exact figures for last year and for this one! I know them, by the way. I'm going out in the back to confirm them because they're from the government. They're not from my accounts. State bodies for which we do not comment or pretend to be all blind to the elephant in the room. Because under those reports that we cannot comment on here in open court, there is plenty of data on what is happening! There's no way to comment on who read them, who didn't read them, and I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't know what it's all about. Then what are we covering up, colleagues, and why are we pretending to be hit? Why are we pretending to be collecting taxes from a Russian company that does something else that we know very well about? You're trying to make comparisons with before, when you get to the earliest. By the way, Mr. Chairman, you are getting a little tired of this privatization deal, I urge you to replace someone to come down and explain what was the opinion of the National Security Service for this privatisation deal, because it is also interesting to find out in the Chamber. And you're a man who makes a very good argument and knows very well what the motives of the DANS back then were to approve such a deal. It doesn't matter! [[Shouts by MP Mustafa Karadaye.]] And now we come to this debate, in which the importers have very well argued what this committee wants to do, why it is important to understand why it is important to understand it is wrong in the pocket of every Bulgarian citizen, because on the back of this was made a measure that gives an additional advantage to companies related to this company! And where is Mr. Dimitrov here with his CDC analysis? By the way, there's a lot better analysis than the CDC's. I'm sure he's familiar, too, but he's not in the room right now, and he knows exactly what he's talking about! Only our focus is: I get up to KZK, and the other I get up to be alive and well! However, there is a serious problem, and colleagues not only from GERB, and some others in the Chamber argued quite well. By the way, the biggest group is silent, and the two ends of the room are somehow of the same opinion, because no one wants to look back in time. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Well, it seems to me that it is the group of BSP, here... Democratic Bulgaria.... the heirs of DSD, without insulting Mr. Hristov............................I like the authentic SDS as it was. That's what we're talking about, guys! And why doesn't anyone want to come out here and talk about it? That's what I don't understand! Why isn't the government here? Then we'll come to the other topic, which was interesting you were going to investigate some streams. You've blocked the Commission. [[Reply:....................]] There's no investigation. There's no "Please"! Fact, fact, in a moment you'll be reminded of that! It will turn out that you speak one thing, and with your actions you practically serve pro-Russian interests, colleagues! That's what I'm talking about. Silence, by the way, is also a sign of a guilty conscience. You could have gone out there, and you could have easily argued why that wasn't the case. Again, I am waiting there for the smiling colleague to tell me: how much is the profit of Lukoil and how much taxes he paid, on what basis he paid them and what activity is he actually doing...............................in fact.................................................... However, in your analysis, do not forget that Mr. Asen Vassilev is a minister from May last year........ and something. Yeah, and he walked in with some loud speeches about how he was gonna make some serious changes there. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Yeah. You have many sins, colleagues, but come out and argue, come out, disprove me! Come on, why aren't you talking? I'll give you a chance. And I really hope to hear something meaningful. Thank you for the time being. There's more to be said on the subject and it will be said, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u265	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u266	Let them replace you, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u267	I don't need to be replaced. Regarding what you have called me to say, I am not sure if the security griff has expired, but I remember that there was a very interesting fact in the NSS report about a person who migrated from the UDF to the DPS. But so far, I can't talk anymore. [[Noise and lines from DPS. People's representative Iskren Arabadzhiev wants the floor.]] You want a line? Here you go. You don't have time. No. With the extension, it's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u268	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Anastasov, just one correction to make. Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev was not the Minister of Finance during this period only in the first caretaker government. And otherwise you've also graduated from a business school like me, there's a pretty strong accounting school. You know about the transfer pricing because accounting operations can be easily manipulated, especially when a Swiss company stands at the entrance and exit of a trading company. You will see on the vote, which we will do to set up the Temporary Commission, that we support and want this truth to come out precisely with the establishment of this Temporary Commission. Because when the price of Russian oil falls 30%, a trading company abroad can sell at the higher price, such as Brent! Finally the profit remains abroad and all Bulgarian consumers pay the higher price instead of having 30% lower price! And here already the profit pricing that is being pursued by the NRA, which must go inside, see, come out with the revision reports, see at what price it sells to the Bulgarian Lukoil and at what price it returns it. Because, you know, the model of work is changing at the moment with a mark-up that realizes the business company Lukoil So the problem with fuel prices is really serious, but here we need to see what the relationship with the trading company in Switzerland is, because when a company is fixed the price it buys and sells to, it will only make a profit because it is fixed by the trading relationship it has with the parent company. Therefore, we expect actions by the NRA in relation to the transfer pricing. Otherwise, yes, about 7 million taxes will be paid this year, but I believe that this is negligible compared to the profit that remains in the Swiss company Litasko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u269	Thank you. Is there another line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Anastasov, could you please stop talking to the doctor and listen to me because you promised to draw numbers here? We found out who slept through the deal with Lukoil, who was the head of the intelligence company then. Apparently this guy didn't know then that the company of Litasko in Switzerland is still making all the profits. We figured out who his childhood dream was to become head of the KPC. We all know that. You didn't have to tell us that. But Mr. Anastasov, you promised to tell me the figures of the income tax how much it is, how much it is, how much it comes back. What is this game with these taxes? That does not understand the MPs. So instead of dealing with the National Intelligence Service from the old days and who slept through the deal with Lukoil, who had closed his eyes then, talking about not paid taxes, you must have some information about the imports from Lukoil to someone then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u271	Is there a third line because the second line wasn't like a line? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u272	Dear Mr. Hamid, you have opened the curtain well. Mr. Arabadzhiev, by the way, has been very helpful without realizing it. I thank him very much. Actually, it's not like the processor works the refinery. Last year, she paid about 3.5 million. If this year pays around 7, this means that it roughly twice has to raise its capacity, which is absolutely incredible. The forecasts are quite different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u273	And inflation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u274	Someone insinuates here in any way that they will almost pay twice as much taxes through the advance tax. This is a clean game between the Ministry of Finance or the NRA, as you want them to be one anyway. I am very happy that you have also confirmed the guilt of the NRA in this game, because if Assen Vassilev really was not a minister in the second government, then Mr. Spetsov I think he was there. Isn't that right? Thank you for reminding me of a very valuable one. One year, one year play on the back of the Bulgarian citizen! Otherwise, there are quite clear data on the amount of money that is leaking out. I think my colleagues have spoken enough. But I never understood against the backdrop of this whole game, you came up with some kind of line, none of your leading political leaders came up to say anything. I didn't understand why we only defended Lukoil's position in front of the European Commission?! Is this the only refinery in Bulgaria, Mr. Arabadzhiev? Is there only one? I know that there are two other ones that are not Russian with mixed property, most of them are Bulgarian. Why was their position not expressed to the European Commission and Bulgaria had to become a lawyer of the Russian company? Can you explain that to me? Why, on the condition that you knew this data, something that you have now admitted, have continued to protect Lukoil to the European Commission to do the same thing?! Because the refinery has been working on a procession for over a year, for over two years even to be exact. And you still agreed to become their lawyer, why?! In this case, Assen Vassilev, who is not here, is resigned, so I am completely gone. I didn't really get it. Now you are looking at your phone, it is more convenient. I assure you that a lot of data will come out through the work of the Temporary Commission because you have allowed yourself to make suggestions with this topic and with many other topics. But when the time comes for truth and facts, something starts running along a touch, which suggests that there are some other connections that are not very pleasant to the audience. But it is high time for everything to come out, starting from 1999 until today, to know who really is the conductor of what interests in Bulgaria and who whose interests it protects! Otherwise, the motivation for protecting these interests is known by your dear former prime minister. He told himself these interests against what they are defending. He was straight to the point of stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u275	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u276	Please, Mr. Karadaye, let me hear what I did wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u277	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Atanasov! If you want to participate in the debate, replicate Mr. Anastasov or anyone else's representative, there is a way this is going to happen. However, taking advantage of sitting in this place and making excuses for your weakness with a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, you can't do that. By the way, again with the anti-DPS campaign, you shut down the authentic SDS, which you're trying to justify right now. I turn to you, Mr. Atanasov, I understand that in your fantasy other than the DPS there is clearly nothing else for your woes, but the folk saying reads otherwise: "If you have something dirty in your pants, don't wonder who else did it! " Thank you. [[Applause from The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u278	Is there another wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group We are continuing the Change: I would like to say that we will support the establishment of this temporary committee. Finally, society needs to understand what this is about, and these thousands of speculations need to stop. I'll allow myself to comment on the particular one. As you know, the state body that regulates unregulated markets, such as the fuel market in Bulgaria, is called the Commission for Protection of Competition. Many times it has been mentioned in this House today, it has been specified who is the President of the Commission, we have heard from colleagues from GERB that the chairman of the committee means nothing. I just want to read art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Protection of Competition, which reads as follows: "The Commission's call on the KPC, organises and directs the activities of the Commission........................................................ the Commission's activities....................................... is a great thing............................................................................................................................................... Here comes the question: provided that GERB-SDS is constantly talking about this one lev why didn't they alert the Commission for Protection of Competition? Here comes another question: why does the Commission for Protection of Competition, provided that it is constantly heard in plenary, in the media, talking about a lev, not self-serving? I wonder why Mr. Dobrev, on the condition that he sits next to Mr. Nenkov, who is the son of the Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition, does not take his signal? And maybe the Commission for Protection of Competition finally kicks in? Because the whole society hears: one lev, one lev, one lev... and eventually this lev whether it exists or not it has to decide the Commission for Protection of Competition. The National Assembly, honourable Members, is not an investigative body. We are not auditors and this temporary committee will not be able to solve the problem only and will only be able to ascertain facts. The body to solve the problem is called the Commission for Protection of Competition. The question is: why does the KPC work with wide closed eyes? Why does GERB-SDS not inform the KPC, not enter a signal? These are the questions, honourable Members. Regarding one lev, I do not see Mr. Dobrev in the hall, but I understand his efforts to position himself as a Delightful Left, the Bulgarian 50 cents. [[Laughter]] Dear colleagues, you should know, the society will remember Mr. Delyan Dobrev, as the person against whom the prosecution had an investigation for abuse of over half a billion levs. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u280	Are there any lines? You don't have time GERB. Others? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Sabrutev! You forgot to answer one of the bases that was chewed on the tax paid.......................... was in advance............................................................. However, you must make it clear to your colleagues that the tax for 2021 is being paid this year. There's no advance payment. It's a tax for 2021, so this tax can be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u282	Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Sabrutev! There was one question that you couldn't answer, and it was why the state on its own initiative didn't buy fuel and it didn't produce gasoline. Can you explain to GERB why the state cannot buy fuel and it can produce gasoline? I will fully agree with you that after this conversation and with this committee, we can summarize and say: this is the myth of the Delightful Left! Myth is something that does not exist, but please explain to Mr. Dobrev why Bulgaria does not buy and participate in the trade and production of fuels. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u284	Colleagues, Mr. Mitev, also let us be at the height of the National Assembly. We can't go waving that kind of qualifier around here. Because if we start, we can all put something on it. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u285	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but I'm not sure that you should continue to lead after we found out about the sleeping deal with Lukoil. Mr. Sabrutev, if we go to talk about relatives, believe me, I have complete freedom to say what I want. Only if I go like this in the zigzag order, it's gonna get really interesting. Who's related to whom? How many relatives does he have? Wives, best man, best man, who's assigned where and who's working on the state administration? I don't want to go into these personal matters because, as I told you, I have the freedom to speak without a care, but I'm not sure that you have the freedom to make a backdrop for me on this subject. Another thing. I am glad that after me your colleague, who did not know why he came out to make a reply to you, did not give data, but on the other hand, rejected Asen Vassilev. Bravo, that's progress. And you disproved Asen Vassilev, a colleague who claimed an advance tax was paid this year. You've come this far not to keep track of what you're saying in the media and who's saying what. Please don't now, I'm telling you, I wouldn't allow myself to go out there and talk like that without knowing what Mr. Hamid was talking about. This isn't happening with us. You're making a complete embarrassment. Either one is true or the other. Or is Assen Vassilev lying about paying an advance tax, or are you lying here that Assen Vassilev is lying?! What's the last thing that's true? Well, Mr. Sabrutev, here do a brief consultation with Mr. Ananiev and you will answer. You might as well keep an eye on him. And otherwise we received absolutely no data, Mr. Sabrutev, absolutely no specific data! How much tax was paid last year? I know it's 3.5 million. Is the base 70 million this year, or did Mr. Ananiev disprove you? What's the last thing that's true? And this tax on how much is paid, if we can know? And what kind of money goes into that account? Thank you. We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u286	Mr. Sabrutev, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, honourable gentlemen replicating. About taxes. The tax paid by Lukoil (Lukoil) confirms that the tax paid for 2021 is for the past period. How much is it? And one left to be exact, one left more than the last 12 years have been paid. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Do you understand? We can't do 12 years of business for over 6 billion. lv. Is he paying taxes in this country?! And now you come and say: pay little, pay advance, pay... Mr. Anastasov, you were also soon from the government of this country. If then you had done the right thing, now maybe an oil channel would have worked a lot on the market and so on. About Mr. Mitev's line. Mr. Mitev, I remind you that Lukoil is a private company. The prices of Lukoil are not determined by the government, are not determined by the Council of Ministers, are not determined by the Prime Minister. Well, until recently they were determined by Mr. Borisov, it is clear how many records leaked, but no longer so. There's some market and it's leaving, and there's no way the state in the face of government or parliament can come in and say you're going to sell at that, or you're going to buy at that. Again, the body that regulates unregulated markets, such as the fuel market in Bulgaria, is called the Commission for Protection of Competition. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u288	Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, I don't know this committee, when we set it up, what will work after this whole investigation here for three hours?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When someone has no arguments, he attacks his own opponent, so do the children, when they quarrel with one another, when they run out of arguments, he personally attacks his opponent. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Sabrutev, if you want to call me the quarter if you want to call me five leva. This does not matter at all because you are robbing the Bulgarian citizens by three and a half billion a day from the first day on which your government rules, these are the facts. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And as for some half a billion that you mentioned for the second and third time, Elena Yoncheva blamed me for 100 million, and I condemned her, if you want, tell me where your 500 million came from, so I can convict you too. I don't want to go into your tone at all, but your intellectual baggage is evident from every statement you make.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u290	That's no, no, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u291	The less you speak, the better. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u292	Is that polite? Come on, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u293	However, remember that Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova appointed you to NEK as the director's secretary. Thank you. [[Noise, laughter and applause by GERB-SDS. People's representative Alexander Nenkov is banging on the bank.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u294	Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman! My personal explanation is as personal as it is party. Mr. Sabrutev hinted that we have ruled here together in recent years. Mr. Sabrutev, if we were to rule together, you and I would be colleagues in this department, but, alas, we are not. DPS was in opposition, you and Mr. Dobrev were colleagues, doing him the honor of admitting it, that's the truth. I understand that you will try to write a new biography that you need in this situation, but a person walks with all the luggage and has nowhere to run. Moreover, as you know, Bulgaria is too small a country and we all know each other, if not directly, through at least one person.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u296	I hope there are no more speeches. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put the draft decision submitted by GERB-SDS to the vote. For the record, I'm going to read it while the MPs gather. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the producer of fuels Lukoil Neftohim Burgas The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the supply of crude oil to the fuel manufacturer Lukoil Neftohim Burgas. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman: Members:........................................................................................... This is the solution project. I put to the vote the draft decision that has just been read. Vote 217 MPs: 124 against 77 abstentions 16. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] There's a request for a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]] It's requested from there, so it doesn't matter. [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting procedure. Vote 215 MPs: 118, against 80, abstention 17. The offer is accepted. Now, fellow Members, I ask the parliamentary groups in size to make their personal proposals for participation in the Commission. We're continuing the Change. Mr. Gurov. [[Noise and lines.]] The second project when we finish the first one. [[Noise and lines.]] The Decision has been adopted, the Commission has been established. A staff must be proposed to be elected, then we decide the second decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the "We continue the Change" we propose as Commissioners Venko Sabrutev and Alexander Rakshiev, as Alexander Rakshiev we propose as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u298	From GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From our parliamentary group we propose as Commissioners Mrs. Irena Dimova and Mr. Alexander Ivanov. We do not offer any of them as chairman, but we will support the proposal of another opposition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u300	DPS, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the entire debate it was understood who, as a scout, had slept through the deal with Lukoil, but to investigate these facts, as well as many others about fuel prices, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, suggested Peter Chobanov and Adlen Shevked to investigate which Soviet scout had slept the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u302	From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u303	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria we offer as members the MPs Rumen Gechev and Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u304	There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Political Party, there is such a people and we are proposing Mr. Andrey Mihailov as chairman and Commissioner Zlatomira Mostrova as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u306	From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u307	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As Commissioners, we propose Ivo Mirchev and Martin Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u308	From rebirth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u309	Mr. Chairman, we offer Iskra Mihailova and Stoyan Taslakov as members and Iskra Mihailova as Chairman, respectively. Thank you. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u310	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? I will put the entire composition of the Commission to the vote on the proposals made, and then we will move on to the election of the President. Please put the proposed Members of the Commission to the vote, please vote on the composition of the Commission. Vote 214 MPs: for 211, against none, abstention 3. The composition of the Commission has been selected. We are now proceeding with the election of the President of the Commission. The first proposal that has been made for President is from colleague Alexander Rakshiev. Please vote. They voted 216 MPs: for 101, against 87, abstention 28. That's not acceptable. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Revoting? Okay, re-election mode. They voted 216 MPs: for 100, against 94, abstention 22. In the case of a re-voting, the proposal is not accepted. In this situation, my fellow Members, I am voting on the next proposal made for President, namely to my colleague Andrey Mihaylov. They voted 214 MPs: 119, against 10, abstention 85. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]] It's a re-vote. Okay, re-election mode. Vote 214 MPs: 120 against 13, abstention 81. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, since there is a third proposal for a chair, I will put it to the vote because it can raise more votes than the second. So, please vote on the proposal for the chairman of my colleague Iskra Mihaylova. They voted 214 MPs: for 72, against 67, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. In this situation, the composition of the Commission is elected and the President is also "Andrej Mihaylov" by "There is such a people." Thus, the Commission's selection procedure and the whole decision have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u311	My fellow Members, insofar as the two draft decisions have a relatively different subject matter, we should also vote on the second proposal for a committee, in principle presenting the identical composition of the Commission and meeting it at the same time on both texts. [[(Loud noise and lines. Laughter. Announcements by GERB-SDS:]] What's so funny, I don't understand? I'm gonna put it to the vote anyway. I'm proposing, and now what the House will decide, that's another matter. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS and DPS. Replica from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova: "Procedure." A line from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev. Replices.]] Mr. Mirchev, welcome to the stands. [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS and DPS. A line from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev.]] In principle, he must withdraw from all the MPs who signed him, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the importers, we are withdrawing our proposal for the Commission, as we already have a Commission for Lukoil.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u313	Colleagues, there's been a request for procedure. Does anyone still want the floor? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I'd like a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u315	Colleagues, take 15 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u316	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We will have to continue by voting on the second draft decision, as I have already announced before the break, insofar as the two projects differ substantially on the topics for which a Temporary Commission is requested. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The draft decision has been submitted by over 10 MPs, we have a statement from one of them. He can't be pulled back, he can't... Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, I do not object to the volition of my colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" for the withdrawal of this draft decision to be a guide to the plenary that the discussion and debate on the point that we discussed and voted before the break ended. I also do not object to considering their draft decision, but I do object that we should start a debate on this second draft decision again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u318	The discussion is over, Mrs. Atanasova. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u319	It's not over, Mr. Chairman, the discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u320	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u321	...because, clearly from the Agenda Project, these two draft decisions are in the same place. If we assume that this item is over and the drafts for a decision are put to the vote, the first one is voted on, a composition of the Commission is elected, and the second one is withdrawn, then you have no right to reopen any debate in order to put to the vote a second draft which has not been discussed. Either agree to begin the debate on their draft decision, or then it will be in force the statement of the colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" that they withdraw the submitted draft decision. Otherwise, you're breaking the rules. I think that most of the arguments of all of us have been heard in this Chamber, but if you have to follow the Rules, you need to reopen the debate, there should be speeches, if any, and then move on to the vote. It's the right thing to do, Mr. Chairman. [[Debat must be there.]] I think you'll make a mistake otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Starting this point, the two draft decisions were presented. A common discussion was opened. This joint discussion is over. Both draft decisions should now be put to the vote. As I have already said, the draft decision, the second one that we have not voted on, is with the importing colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria." Mr. Mirchev cannot exercise the will on behalf of the other MPs. Insofar as there is no withdrawal from all Members of the National Assembly, this draft decision should be put to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission to examine the circumstances related to an increase in the price of crude oil purchased by..Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the management and activity of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, and the actions taken by the state. They voted 102 MPs: 79, against 19, abstention 4. That's how the offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u323	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u324	We're revoting, colleagues. Please, re-election mode. They voted 110 MPs: 44, against 25, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE FACTS AND FACILITY OF GAS PROCEEDINGS FOR THE TRANSFER OF A NATURAL GAS FROM THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION Importers Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. For an importer's opinion, Mr. Stankov, come in, you have the floor. Accordingly, read us the Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u325	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you all remember, a few weeks ago this House voted and set up such a committee. Then, however, a precedent was created that the House failed to elect a President and had the President of the National Assembly to be responsible for the assembly of this committee. On one occasion or another, the President was also removed and this committee remained weightless. And from the point of view of the fact that a few days ago the term of office of a decision on how long it is to meet has expired, we are addressing you with a proposal for a decision to really re-establish the Commission in its full composition and, accordingly, this time, to elect a chair and to really start meeting. What was the need to submit today, precisely, this request for the establishment of this temporary committee, namely, a few days after the term of office of this committee has expired? We have noticed that the Prime Minister in resignation began again with suggestions regarding the pipelines that will be exposed and examined in this committee. What do I mean? A few days ago, we witnessed a ceremony to complete the work on the gas interconnector Bulgaria, which is not mentioned anywhere, however, that there is not even Act 15. Colleagues, Act 15 for those of you who don't know what it is, this is the act confirming that the real construction works on the pipeline are over. So we have one cut of tape without having Act 15, let alone Act 16. Moreover, this commission needs to distract some suggestions that have been made for nearly a year, namely that the interconnector Bulgaria.. Greece has not been built for 12 years. Colleagues, let's be clear about the following thing: this interconnector connects Bulgaria's network with that of Greece, in the case of the point of Greek territory in Komotini. This connection, however, is possible after the gas from the Shah Deniz 2 is passed, first on TANAP, then on TAP, and then on the Bulgarian-Greek connection. In connection with the connection of these two systems, they cannot be connected if at both ends there is no place to join the Bulgarian-Greek interconnector, namely I will just remind you that the Transadriatic pipeline was put into operation at the end of 2020. In other words, if Bulgaria had built the Bulgaria Interconnector earlier, we would have a wonderful interconnector, a wonderful tube in the Greek levels and would not have served for anything. In particular, it will be one of the Commission's tasks to establish the launch of this project during all its stages, during the formal final investment decision in 2015, during the recovery of the entire capital in 2016. 2017 during the public procurement that was carried out and the signing of the contracts in 2019, until the end of the completion of this project, which had to be completed at the end of 2021, in order to be able to literally several months after TAP was ready, to run gas on this interconnector. Moreover, it should be emphasized on the consideration of another project important for the country's territory, namely the Balkan Stream project 100% state ownership, unlike Turkish Stream, in Turkish territory, and the tube, which is in Serbian territory, from which the Russians own 50% ownership, in Bulgaria Balkan Stream is 100% state ownership. Gas pipeline, which allowed Bulgaria to keep its strategic location on the territory of the map of Europe, on the gas map of Europe, while preserving itself as an unsurpassable factor. And again here we return to the opening of the unfinished pipeline of the Bulgarian-Greek connection, on which the prime minister also allowed himself to quote that you see, a kilometer away, the pipeline connecting the Bulgarian-Turkish with the Bulgarian-Serb border is more expensive than the pipeline, which is the so-called Bulgarian-Greek gas connection. Mr. Prime Minister, when you're trying to compare apples to plums, you can't get the bill. Because that means comparing a kilometer of highway that has two lanes on both sides, plus an auxiliary sail, or a total of six lanes, with an inter-urban road that is for a car and a half. Why am I talking about a car and a half? By dividing six sails into five, five times smaller, because five times is smaller the Bulgaria Interconnector.. Greece as a capacity, it is three billion cubic, compared to the Balkan stream, which is 15.75 billion cubic, when you compare them, you will see that five times is the difference in capacity. Here I will not go into detail that one tube has a diameter of one meter and 20 centimeters, and the other tube is 81 centimeters, or the difference of just over 250 kilograms of steel, so it should be compared not just the tube per kilometer, but also the capacity that this tube provides. However, it is very important to mention that this committee is not tasked with saying which gas connection is more important. Why? Because for Bulgaria each connection is extremely important, namely, like Bulgaria's interconnector, Greece, which gave the real diversification from a new source along a new route, as well as the Balkan stream, which preserves the territory of the country transit, respectively, with the two compressor stations and these hundreds of kilometers of pipeline. It is extremely important that the Commission does not close its work before fulfilling its task to determine how diversified Bulgaria is. From the point of view of gas supply, we are or are not 100% diversified, since the long-term contract with This means that, after all, gas comes from somewhere from some of the interconnectors, whether it will be from Romania, whether it will be from the existing with Greece the Tower of Sidirocastro, or from those existing with Turkey. So gas is coming from somewhere and the Commission needs to find out how diversified we are and what else needs to be done in order to achieve this 100% diversification. Personally, I would also like a proposal from the Commission to propose a 100% diversification bill from the existing source at the moment. Last but not least, colleagues, we need to focus on a very important thing, which I have repeatedly addressed to all of you, however, remains out of sight, namely that September will come an invoice from the "Gszprom" for 34 million. For 34 million under the existing contract for non-taken quantities under the so-called clause "tercorpei." However, this 34 million will be rather the pebble in the shoe. However, the Gaber in the shoe will be what will come January month and January month at a price of 186 BGN. an invoice of 3 billion will come at a megawatt hour. BGN, which the state has to pay for ordered but unpossessed quantities. And he'll only have the right to take 15% of those quantities. Or of that 3 billion. lv. We'll be able to get 450 million gas. So I am extremely pleased that in the motives and tasks of this committee it is necessary to think about what will happen and exactly how it should react, and who, if not the Council of Ministers, should at the moment carefully do the analysis and take the relevant decisions so that this huge debt, the bankruptcy of the Bulgarian energy and its collapse as we see it, starting initially with a crisis on the electricity price, then a crisis on the absence of gas and a crisis on the price of the gas that we see at the moment. I would be extremely happy if you all supported the Commission today and, accordingly, this time, we elect the President. Mr. Chairman, I'll allow myself to read the draft decision as well. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning gas pipelines for the transport of natural gas from the Russian Federation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning gas pipelines for the transport of natural gas from the Russian Federation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 4. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 5. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of 1 month. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u326	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u327	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will support the proposal made to set up a Temporary Commission on that topic, moreover, that on 25 May the Movement for Rights and Freedoms made such a proposal for such a committee, which was voted on 9 June. However, as Mr. Stankov pointed out, on 9 June we adopted a decision which also identified the members of the committees, but was not elected President of the Commission. Then the President of the National Assembly had to convene a first meeting of the Commission and in the internal rules to determine how the President of the Commission would be designated so that the Commission could work, but Mr. Nikola Minchev did not do this thing. That is why the President of the National Assembly was released from office on 16 June. So we, apart from the motives that we have heard, set out here by the importer Mr. Stankov, have other motives from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The proposal for the establishment of a Temporary Commission is also motivated by the need to establish all the facts, circumstances surrounding the processes related to natural gas pipelines from the Russian Federation, namely South Stream, Turkish Stream Balkan Stream, or who so wants to call them, because different terms are used in the public domain, starting from: what their construction was required, during the planning, design, approval, procurement, including contracting, contracting, the implementation of construction and construction activities, the exercise of construction supervision, the commissioning of capacity and the operation of the pipelines in question. Everything needs to be tested. At a geopolitical moment when natural gas is used as an instrument of the foreign policy of the Russian Federation and the interruption of supply is a direct threat to the national energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is in the interest of the Bulgarian society to establish the full truth around all stages of the implementation of natural gas transport projects by the Russian Federation, as well as related natural and legal persons such as for the latter to establish ownership, including the physical owners. In addition to the reasons we have heard from Mr. Stankov, this is imperative for us and I will say the suggestion, so as not to say the lies made before the media by Mr. Kiril Petkov, Prime Minister in resignation, that the movement for rights and freedoms is relevant to the implementation of the South Stream and Turkish Stream projects, Balkan Stream. Publicity requires that it be mentioned that the malicious and malicious ones in question will not tell lies, I will tell suggestions to Mr. Petkov are not supported by any fact. Only aim to use the topic of stigmatization through the lies of the political opponent, in this case a Movement for Rights and Freedoms. By the way, we have heard that it is Mr. Petkov's practice to use national, significant topics for personal gain, as we have also heard on the topic of diplomatic reciprocity with the Russian Federation. Part of the work of the Temporary Commission must also identify the reasons for the delay of the IGB project, known as the Intersystem gas connection between Greece and Bulgaria. For the Bulgarian public and the Euro-Atlantic partners of the Republic of Bulgaria it is important to make clear who is politically and legally responsible for the implementation, respectively the failure of the natural gas pipelines in question by the Russian Federation and the delay of the IGB project. It is our intention, through the establishment of the Temporary Commission, to shed light on all and everything related to the stages of the implementation of these natural gas projects by the Russian Federation, as well as related natural and legal persons. I'm also addressing the government so far. Support for the establishment of the proposed Temporary Commission will be a kind of tournosol. [[Relations from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] You don't understand, Mr. Nenkov. Tournosol or, if I may quote a classic in the Bulgarian language Mr. Kiril Petkov, this is litmus, and in Bulgarian it is called litmus. [[Applause from DPS.]] Support for the establishment of the proposed Temporary Commission will be a kind of tournosol, litmus, litmus for the sincerity of the political parties presented in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, whether they wish to establish the true connectivity with the Russian Federation and Russian capital of Bulgarian politicians and other representatives and political representatives. By the way, we have just seen that the slogans and declarations of the government are one, but their actions are gay. We can see their speeches and we can check their vote on the Commission for Lukoil. In conclusion, apart from the proposed objectives, which Mr. Stankov, as an importer, pointed out about the diversification to be included in the report of the Temporary Commission, we believe that the Temporary Commission should include in its final report proposals for actions the Bulgarian side should take to ensure the national energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria. From this point of view, once again, I call on the MPs to support the establishment of this temporary committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u328	Are there any lines, colleagues, to that statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Temenuzhka Petkova, come in, Mrs. Petkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u329	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At present, we are facing a very difficult situation related to the security of natural gas supplies to Bulgaria. That's not what I'm saying. It was stated most sincerely by the Executive Director of the Bulgargaz the other day in the framework of a hearing in the Temporary Commission, related to examining all the facts and circumstances regarding the suspended deliveries by the Gazprom. The Executive Director was so good to share with all of us that natural gas for Bulgaria by the end of the year has not been provided and the reason for this is the lack of signed long-term contracts, the lack of negotiations with potential natural gas suppliers for Bulgaria. What has been claimed is also the serious condition of the public natural gas supplier Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) company, which has been characterised by its financial stability, and for seven years we have worked to ensure that it is financially stable, that there are no liquidity problems so that it can fulfil its commitments. The other day we found out that there is a very serious liquidity problem, something more, with the update of the budget for 2022 a state guarantee is voted, which will enable.. Bulgargaz....... to withdraw a loan................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ BGN to be able to pay for alternative gas supplies. And here comes the question: if we pay for a month, two, three or four of these deliveries, what do we do next? That money's gonna run out. Is Bulgargaz going to draw credit again to pay for natural gas supplies to Bulgaria? Against the backdrop of this apocalyptic picture related to the security of natural gas supply to Bulgaria, I think it is extremely important to support the decision relating to the establishment of this temporary committee to examine all the facts and circumstances related to the construction of the project.. Balkan Stream, the delay related to the construction of the interconnector Greece.. Bulgaria and all other accompanying projects in the field of natural gas. I very much hope that a few important things will be clarified within this temporary committee. First of all, with regard to the project "Balkan brook", I hope that the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament from the 44th National Assembly will be read at last, from which it will become clear what the conditions were, what were the tasks which the Bulgarian Parliament entrusted to the executive power and to Bulgartransgaz, in the realization of this project. I hope it will also become clear how market tests have been carried out for this project in accordance with all European rules. I hope you will be convinced of the transparency and publicity of the public procurements carried out relating to the implementation of the project and to compliance with the European rules regarding the Gas Directive. I hope that all Members of the National Assembly will also get acquainted with the Commission's Energy and Water Regulatory Decision, where it is very clearly stated what the rate of return of this project is, what are the revenues it needs to realise, respectively, the costs so that it can be profitable. I very much hope that you will all understand that this is a project that is entirely Bulgarian, which works only in the interests of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian business. It was this project on 21 July 2021 that allowed "Bulgartransgaz" to receive 683 million. Revenue from transit charges by I think it is clear to everyone that this project is not for us to pay to Gsprom; it is for us to pay for it. I hope that this will be clarified in this temporary committee. I very much hope that another fact relating to this will be clarified with the suggestion that almost money from the budget has been built on this project. I hope it will become clear that this project was built without any money from the state budget. It was built with funds provided by the company that won the contract, as this was one of the conditions of the public procurement. The one who will implement the project will also provide the funding, which will be returned in the next 10 years of the project's work. So I hope that all these facts and circumstances will once and for all become clear and stop speculation and suggestion regarding this project. An extremely unpleasant impression was made by Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and his cabinet chief, who tried to make another dividing line and say: Balkan stream is bad, the interconnector Greece is a very good project. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members of the House We are continuing the Change! You must have a wonderful education, you have graduated from prestigious universities, but it seems to me that you have missed a very important lesson and this is the lesson related to patriotism and the protection of national interests. [[(Replies from]] You can't divide projects into good and bad. These are Bulgarian projects, projects that protect our national interests and are in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. So to draw similar dividing lines for projects that bring Bulgaria's revenue and will bring revenue decades ahead, and to say who is good and who is bad, this can at least be said by a person who is not familiar with the facts as they are. With regard to the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria, I very much hope that in this temporary committee, once and for all, it will become clear how this project has become possible, once and for all, it will become clear that the project is not being built for 12 years. Because to make this project happen, it is realized in the territory of two countries by a joint company between Greece and Bulgaria. So when someone makes a suggestion that GERB has not implemented this project for 12 years, it means that he does not know the project and does not know in detail what is happening in this project. No GERB, this is the joint Bulgarian-Greek company, which realized the interconnector Greece Bulgaria. This project has not been implemented for 12 years, honourable Members. In 2013, in September 2013, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 231/2014. Mr. Stoynev is here, he will say, is signed the supply contract for natural gas between the Bulgarians and our partners from Azerbaijan. As a result, two infrastructure projects had to be built - the Trans-Anatolian and Trans-Adriatic gas pipeline through which the natural gas from Azerbaijan will reach the southern gas corridor to Bulgaria and Greece. Another very serious thesis that our Prime Minister has been practicing lately, and so the people around him, is that all these routes on which the Azeri gas comes have always existed. I want to tell you that in order for the Azeri gas to come to Bulgaria, it is in Bulgaria from 1 January 2021, colleagues. Then we did the anex with our Azeri partners, signed this annex, and from January 1st on the basis of this annex we protected to the maximum extent our national interest and what could be taken as the capacity of Nea Messemvria this is the point that gives us this opportunity, at this entry point, became a fact at the end of 2020. So I hope that in this temporary committee all this will become clear and stop speculation on this extremely important topic for Bulgaria and this extremely important project for Bulgaria. I very much hope that everything that the three governments of Prime Minister Borisova have done for this project will be appreciated. Because it has become possible, as much as some of you do not like, thanks to the political will of Prime Minister Borisov and his three governments, which made possible the interconnector Greece We have provided funding for this project and when someone says that GERB has delayed the project and did not want it, he just needs to be silent and apologize for the 110 million. EUR we have provided from the state budget a state guarantee, 39 million. EUR under Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness." The Bulgarian Energy Holding provided the entire contribution needed for the implementation of the project. So when they speak untruths, the way to disprove these untruths is precisely through such temporary committees that committees carry out all the facts and all the circumstances. Because when the facts speak, the gods do not speak. Dear colleagues, I really hope that, when all this becomes known, you will get acquainted with all the documents that will be provided, we will also get to the last week when Prime Minister Kiril Petkov went and turned a crane, and hopefully we will examine what was actually born by turning this crane. I'm telling you there was no gas, I don't know what else could have been there. But with regard to the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria, the project is not ready and has not been put into service at the moment. It was just a PR guy. But I am sure that the Temporary Commission will reach every single process and every detail of the implementation and of the Interconnector Greece. I hope that the Temporary Commission will also get acquainted with the modernization of the infrastructure which we have made. We have replaced all compressors on our compressor stations so that today it can be possible for natural gas to move in both directions from and for Bulgaria. All this I hope will be seen, appreciated and stopped with suggestion and lies. We have worked in the interests of Bulgaria, only and only have been guided by the Bulgarian national interests. Colleagues, I call on you to support this decision to set up the Temporary Commission. It will give answers to many, many questions and you will finally understand the truth. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u330	Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for the cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u331	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Petkova, Mrs. Bachvarova, has repeatedly stated as Deputy Prime Minister that the three projects You have just said very different things than what the deputy prime minister of the second government Borisov said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u332	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Donchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u333	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Petkova, you made a firm and competent statement, but you had one pass. Just one! The important thing is to clean it up, because all colleagues who do not understand the energy industry do free writings should learn from what you have said. You neglected to mention when the TAP and TANAP routes were completed. Because, as you know, to build a pipeline, there has to be a source of natural gas, it can't be transported into small barrels. The TAP and TANAP tracks correct me if I am wrong, Mrs. Petkova, were completed 2020. suppressed by the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, In other words, a gas source that could supply the IGB interconnector with Greece has been available since the end of 2020. Please correct me if I was wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u334	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u335	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Svilensky! I speak only the truth and speak with facts. I can tell you days and days what happened, because all that I have so briefly tried to explain to you has passed through our hands, through our minds, so that it can become a fact. So there's nothing I've saved. Here the role and place of Prime Minister Borisov are more than obvious. It is precisely the final investment decision to build the interconnector Greece "Bulgaria," was taken on December 10, 2015 in the Granite Hall of the Council of Ministers in the presence of representatives of the European Commission, the Greek Minister of Energy, Prime Minister Borisov. So this project became possible thanks to the political will of Borisov and his governments. These are the facts, and I believe that no one can say anything about this when the facts speak. I can talk days about what happened on specific dates. But for shutting down projects here, it's out of the question. Dear Mr. Donchev, you are absolutely right. I neglected to point out that these two extremely important infrastructure projects, the Trans-Anadol pipeline and the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, were built, the Trans-Adriatic gas pipeline was completed at the end of 2020, that is when the connection of Nea Mesemvria appeared. Then it becomes possible for Bulgaria to receive certain quantities of Azeri natural gas. As you well know, we did not waste an hour and immediately did everything we could, started negotiations with our Azeri colleagues, annexed the treaty and on 1 January 2021 the Azeri gas was already in Bulgaria. That is, Bulgaria has made a real diversification of the sources for the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria. I missed one more thing that is very important for these 12 years of construction. Public procurement for this project became possible after funding for this project was provided. Apart from the state guarantee, in addition to the money we provided under the operational programmes, a loan was also taken from the European Investment Bank. With regard to ensuring funding, we have done everything we can to speed up this whole process. After the funding was provided, we started four public procurements: for the selection of a builder, for the selection of a manufacturer and a pipe supplier, for an engineer-consultator and for construction supervision. In October 2019 construction started, contracts for construction and delivery of pipes were signed and construction started. This project has been under construction since October 2019. You know, then the Covid-19 pandemic, it slowed down the whole process. I am glad that the other day and Prime Minister Mizzotakis simply admitted that this is the reason because two Greek companies are building this project, honourable Members. It is not built by GERB, two Greek companies, world famous. One of them was involved in the construction of the Transatlantic gas pipeline, so this is about these lines, which were really very on the spot, dear Mr. Donchev and honourable colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. For the procedure Mr. Vigenin, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct, but the criticism is not so much to you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are discussing the establishment of a Temporary Commission, which should establish facts and circumstances about all the issues that have been addressed. If we continue with this detailed discussion, with all the elements that this committee intends to make, it will become meaningless because almost all the facts and circumstances have already been exposed by Mrs. Petkova. I suggest, however, that we focus a little more on the specific point, which is not a discussion on all these topics, but a discussion on the creation of the Temporary Commission, and all the details and detailed explanations and so on to leave them to the Commission, which will draw up the detailed report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u338	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Guys, are there any other speeches? Mr. Dimitrov, then Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u339	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! For the second time from this tribune, a colleague from GERB tells what penalties they would ask Bulgaria at the end of the year and talk about billions. I very strongly appeal to you to think about the national interest and not to say such things from the stands of the National Assembly, because in a possible procedure against Bulgaria these statements can be used. You're experienced people. In this situation you are aware of how important I am telling you right now and I hope you will listen to me this time, because if you think that Bulgaria's interest can be better protected, give these proposals, but do not speak here from this tribune how at the end of the year they will ask us for 3 billion. Do not say such things because this question contains who is right and who is wrong. So, which side are you on, colleagues from GERB? Who do you think is right in this argument? Besides, if you think that Bulgaria's interest can be better protected, tell us to do it together, but what you do... [[GERB-SDS lines]] [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Yeah, yeah. There are national interests in this country. And even when you're an opposition, you're still defending national interest. If you think otherwise, say it, but this issue is extremely key, and I hope a third time, because twice you have already done so, and not in closed session, I call on you really not to have a third. In addition, speaking about the various pipelines, the following question always arises: how the so-called Balkan, Turkish, or there, as you wish, a pipeline was built in one year. This is the final result, while the Greek link went through all the peripets, although the project is much easier to implement, it has been much more than 10 years, after all, until it is completed. Fact! Fact! [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I listened very carefully to you, I listened very carefully, but this is the result, this is the end result. Next, as for the various Russian projects, the question is what diversification we achieved in all these years and were we ready for the crisis that happened. If Bulgaria bought the full amount of Azeri gas last year, now Chiren would be full, colleagues, and why didn't you buy the full amount of Azeri gas last year, ladies and gentlemen? We'd be much better prepared for this situation. And in the end, we will, of course, support this committee, we will clarify together many facts to see who is wrong and who is right, but colleagues, it is very misunderstood that you, being opposition, are not part of the national interest of a state, because this is what two colleagues from GERB have explained to me here, while speaking. There's no such thing. Regardless of who is in power, who is in opposition, we must defend the interest of Bulgaria, colleagues. The other is some delusion of yours, which is very wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u340	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Tsoncho Ganev, Stanislav Anastasov, and from GERB who you choose that there are many willing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u341	Mr. Dimitrov, I would be delighted if you find moral strength in your duplicate to comment on the fact about the data that Bulgaria will have to pay for not taking the necessary quantities under a contract from the "Gazprom" because the figure of 3 billion exported here just now is, to put it mildly, worrying. So it would be nice to say whether it is so or not, so that there are no false impressions about the whole thing that has been made as a statement by Mr. Stankov, and whether it is true or not, because it matters to each and every one of us. Otherwise it is nice to comment on all these pipelines, because when it stopped and the really beneficial South Stream for Bulgaria, then managed BSP. Then four American senators arrived, ordered this thing to Prime Minister Oresharski on that date and he stopped South Stream. On the other hand, we built the very unfavorable Turkish stream for Bulgaria, the so-called Turkish, or Balkan, or whatever you want to call it, stream, but it is a fact that this thing happened during the BSP. And not that there is any difference between their management and GERB [[Shouting from GERB-SDS: "Eee!"]] So I'm asking you very much to say about these 3 billion that were mentioned, are they true or not, because the unpossessed volumes, if they have to be calculated as a penalty that we have to pay, becomes a very unpleasant amount for us as a country. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u342	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Stanislav Anastasov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u343	Mr. Dimitrov, I have a very clear memory of a government when you were opposition only for a year, what you were doing to the European Commission, what writing fell only so that you could return to power. Yeah, I'm talking about the Reformation Block. And speaking of the streams, we have therefore proposed this committee and it, by the way, has been so over for a month, I have not heard a word from you about this committee. Why didn't you get together, why didn't you examine the facts and circumstances? When we get here on the stand, we practice, but the rest of the time, we kind of forget these things. There was a Minister of Energy, who is currently mayor of a district in Sofia, and was also a candidate for president of your Reformation Bloc. Do you remember him, in the period 2009 - 2012? So there are a lot of interesting things that have to come out of these streams, because the political decisions to build them have been made much earlier in time. I have taken the trouble to check the chronology and whose signatures stand beneath them. Even you will be surprised, or you won't be surprised, and here we are pretending to hold my hat, as they say more popularly. Isn't that right, Mr. Dimitrov, you two know each other? Now don't at least give up on your friends, that's not okay. That's the only word I'm gonna use. But here's the question: what happened to this month and why didn't this committee work? We were all supposed to take out all the facts and circumstances, the Commission was voted, the government fell and suddenly: "A," we are not interested in the facts and circumstances. "I therefore in the first place told you, when we had to vote for ratification and commented on the absence of the government, I hinted to you in vain that some people have a day of Euro-Atlanticism, and this afternoon they no longer need to be Euro-Atlantics, because we have other interests and other priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u344	Thank you. Mrs. Petkova, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I see some progress. Until a while ago you were talking about that GERB did not build 12 years the project now became 10. It's still something that's reassuring. [[Laughter]] Just to remind you that the construction began in October 2019, that is, there is no way from 2019 to 2022 that 10 years have passed. Let me remind you of one more thing. According to the contract concluded after a public contract, the project was to be ready on 26 April 2021. Due to the pandemic of COVID-19 it was annexed and extended the deadline until 31 December 2021. For a year and a half GERB had not managed, well two official governments had completed it, one on a regular basis, with all claims of expertise and desire to implement the project. Why didn't you get this project ready? Why? Since you asked why the Balkan Stream was implemented in time, this one was not, but what I can tell you, the short answer is: a question of the organization of the company performer. Balkan flow, as you well know, is realized by a company from Saudi Arabia. The company's name is Arkad. They created the necessary organization, perhaps they did not have these problems with the CIVID-19 pandemic, while Greece closed the borders and it was impossible to start further construction, so this is the reason. With regard to diversification, I would just like to draw your attention to the following. Bulgaria consumes, as we all know, approximately 3 billion cubic meters of gas per year. A billion cubic meters of gas we have done everything possible under the Treaty with Azerbaijan to be already in Bulgaria. We did not book the full quantities because on 1 January 2021, when the connection with Nea Mesemvria was completed, the Bulgargaz. In order to be able to deliver this gas, there must be spare capacity. The capacity we were able to get at that time was 300 million cubic metres of gas. Now it is great that they have applied for capacity and can take full capacity, but in order to take full capacity at the contract price, because now we are paying a higher price, the interconnector Greece must be ready for Bulgaria. And I ask why do you think this project is not ready yet? And we, for diversification, have done...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u346	The weather, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u347	...most of all, plus we have booked half a billion cubic metres of gas at Alexandroupolis' liquefied natural gas terminal, which should be ready at the end of 2023. This project has also become possible thanks to us. We own 20% of this company's capital and half a billion cubic metres of gas. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u348	Mr. Dimitrov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u349	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! You see what happened after the second speech by GERB in parliament for some 3 billion. Other parliamentary groups have already started talking about this topic, which directly harms Bulgaria's interest, as I have been paying attention to you. This is responsible for every single member of parliament. From my point of view, what happened? Bulgaria has declared quantities, paid them and did not receive them. What 3 billion are you talking about, colleagues? What are you doing? A colleague at the DPS explained to me that because he was some other government, he did not receive the support he expected, so now there should be no work for the national interest. There's no such thing. Every MP, all of us, does not matter who is opposition, who is ruling, we are obliged to do our best to solve the problems that stand before us. The best at any moment. As for Mrs. Petkova, part of the question is why does the construction of the gas connection 2019 begin, with the decision from 2009 that such a thing should? Since 2009, I have asked different energy ministers every year: Why not start this construction? Why doesn't this construction start? Why did it start 10 years later?... This is the problem, this is the real problem actually, this is what this is all about, so, colleagues, the most important thing. Yes, there must be such a committee, we support it, we participate in it. Why didn't she sit down? He has to sit down and he has to sit down. When there are such political turbulences... [[Noise and lines.]] On the contrary, today, when she is elected, she will sit, of course, but I end up with the following. Colleagues from GERB, and you colleagues from the birth already, please do not speculate with a topic that may directly harm Bulgaria's interest. I appeal to all of you, and to my colleagues from GERB my request is twice as strong because experienced people cannot afford such speculations, which in international procedures can be used against the interest of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u350	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Stanislav Anastasov, procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u351	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u352	Here you go. I hope it doesn't change to a replica of the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u353	He's not going to turn, Mr. Chairman. You yourself witnessed Mr. Dimitrov try to demagogize and put words in my mouth that I didn't say. He, by the way, managed to almost zero the largest democratic party in Bulgaria as chairman. I ask you very much to make a sharp remark when Mr. Dimitrov comes out here and lies in order to justify himself. As for the Commission, here, I will make a remark to you, too, it does not meet. It's a little difficult for me right now for you and Mr. Dimitrov to believe that once you lied, you wouldn't do it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u354	Mr. Anastasov, please! Mr. Bikov, are you speaking? Mrs. Petkova, and to you, I hope it doesn't turn out to be a replica of the back, but I'm pretty sure that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct. Please, when accusations are made from this tribune, Mr. Dimitrov accused the political party GERB of the fact that we are hardly undermining the country's interests in any way, I would just like to remind that, under the Energy Act, energy policy is determined by the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, but when such decisions are taken related to national security, because energy security is national security, then the colleagues should have called on the provision of the Energy Act to come here to a closed session, whether in public, as they find appropriate, and...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u356	Mrs. Petkova, your procedure is for colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u357	...to report what they have to tell us, not us to learn from the media. I am sure that we would find the best option for Bulgaria. But now to scare us, Mr. Dimitrov, I don't think it's appropriate. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to pay attention, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u358	For a statement, colleagues? Mr. Gutsanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have been provoked by a speech by a fellow Member from a short time ago, and a lot of people have been rehearsing in the Chamber for a topic that is quite different from what is being said. First, BSP is the political party, which over the past 20 years has very clearly commented on what are the important projects in the field of energy. These were the South Stream, Burgas "Alexandroupolis," it was "Belene" and what was commented earlier in the hall that almost during the time of BSP was stopped South Stream, has nothing to do with the truth. I think it was another prime minister who bragged in a foreign embassy that he had stopped the gyola Belene and then, half a year later, talked about how important this project was for our country, that it had stopped Burgas and Alexandroupolis. I believe that it is very clear which is the political party, which, in all these years, has been unwavering in its view of the development of energy in these areas. Why not become South Stream is a topic that really needs to be discussed very carefully, and who are the culprits Bulgaria to lose the opportunities to earn billions of dollars from this huge infrastructure site. Who is to blame for Belene, something that would now bring back billions of profits to the state. It must also be commented whether there is the will to start the construction of the nuclear power plant in this House at the moment. You should not in such a light way discuss the topics and throw untruths. Therefore, in BSP we have always been consistent on the subject of energy and when we comment on this topic, once again I would like to raise the issue of melting the gas storage facility in Galata, which could be a gas storage facility. I comment once again: will there finally be a ruling on who has made the decision on its melting so that we cannot now have a natural gas storage facility? Why have millions been invested in Chiren for so many years and it has not yet increased its capacity as it should have been from 900 million to 1.5 billion cc of gas? So I ask you, fellow Members, not to exercise and not to rehearse from the stands things that are too far away. And one more thing when we started this topic. BSP was once again the party in which we struggled in every way and managed to stop the shale gas in Dobrudja. And if this topic is raised again at the moment, yes, we will again stand in this position that there should be no shale gas extraction in the way it was intended. So we are infinitely consistent and infinitely clear on the subject of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u360	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. - What's the line? Mrs. Mihailova, come in for a line. Mr. Gazhev and Mr. Bikov, if there is no other parliamentary group, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u361	Mr. Gutsanov, since you didn't say anything on the subject, I'm giving you the opportunity to do it in the back. "Bulgargaz" did not open an account to give us the opportunity to continue to receive gas from the Council of Ministers, thanks to a decision which was quoted and given to them by one of the Deputy Ministers of Energy. This decision of the Council of Ministers today Your Prime Minister in Retirement Kiril Petkov said it was not protocol, it is not shorthand, but you have several ministers of BSP, tell us, Mr. Gutsanov: how did they react, what opinions did your ministers of BSP take in the decision on the basis of which Bulgargaz How did your BSP ministers react, as Kiril Petkov of this tribune, your prime minister in resignation, said the decision was unanimous? Answer me! [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u362	Mr. Svilensky, you're absolutely right. Colleagues, for God's sakes, we are commenting on the establishment of a committee. Can we at some point focus on why this committee is needed? It concerns the.. I read the draft decision. [[Heckling]] Wait a minute! Kasae: The Russian Federation's natural gas transmissions - South Stream and Balkan Stream - and the reasons for delaying the IGB project? What does Mr. Petkov have to do with this, and I don't know who else?! For a line? [[Heckling]] Which one, because Mr. Atalay wants the floor too, and I'll give him the third line. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u363	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gutsanov, thank God you are a party that is called Russophile and supports in some way good relations with Russia, because if you were against Russia, you would probably have destroyed the entire Russian state by now. As friends of Russia, I remember with my eyes, you stopped once South Stream. McCain came to visit the U.S. senator, remembering him as yesterday, and in the Chamber of the Council of Ministers gave a joint press conference with Oresharski, at which he announced that he was stopping South Stream. The next time you joined the government, you expelled 70 Russian diplomats and stopped the contracts with Gazprom altogether. There is no Russian gas in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u364	Mr. Bikov, what does this have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u365	Well, because Mr. Gutsanov blames us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u366	Yeah, and Mrs. Petkova was saying some things that weren't on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u367	We, who are skeptics of Russia's policy, are even starting to worry about you declaring war after another day of Russia, as you have entered the government. I urge you, Mr. Gutsanov, not to recall what you have done in the management in terms of gas and energy projects at all, because you, besides stopping, have done nothing in the last 30 years. You have one achievement s Jean Videnov refused to sell Russia to the priceless network of Bulgaria, which was also a good solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u368	We're back on Jean Videnov, Mr. Bikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u369	By the way, keep in mind, Mr. Chairman, that the gas topic is a strategic topic that is decades ahead and decades behind. You may think that it starts from 2020 or 2021 or from the Greek gas connection, but it is a very old topic and BSP colleagues are involved in it. But I'm still telling you, don't help Russia so much, because you can destroy it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u370	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Let's leave something to the Commission to do. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also thank Mr. Bikov that half of the things I had to say spell them out, although not exactly in that order. I want to remind Mr. Gutsanov because I respect the BSP, especially when they are very involved with energy.Yes, there was a man with you who was involved in energy, his name was Rumen Ovcharov, to whom whatever attitude you had, he understood this work. I just don't understand with this enthusiasm, Mr. Gutsanov, as you have begun to specify, why didn't you finish the two blocks in Belene? It was completely in your hands. You know, you didn't sign the contracts you were supposed to close. Although we are against nuclear power from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but you had every reason, and now 2018, 2019 these two blocks would have worked and we would have had more excess energy, through which the opposition could have helped and returned the money from the high price so that we could reduce inflation in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u372	Mr. Atalay, and you, we're talking about gas lines. Where is NPP Belene, where is the connection to the pipelines?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u373	About the pipeline you know that Plevneliev's caretaker government stopped South Stream, not Mr Oresharski, who stood and said he would stop despite the pressure of the American side and of the European country. South Stream was also needed for Europe, South Stream was the basis for Bulgaria to be the gas hub, not the gas hub now in Greece. Because if we hadn't stopped South Stream, if we still didn't do so to argue whether a Balkan stream was needed, if we needed other pipelines that could pass through Bulgaria, because, colleagues, we would come a day and we should be aware of the pipelines that were built in Bulgaria for gas, could transport gas even to Ukraine, passing through...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u374	Mr. Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u375	Yeah. Thank you. Why shouldn't I talk? I understand that you do not understand the essence of things, Mr President, but let us make the Commission and then I hope you understand. But I'm gonna want to talk after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u376	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. That is why I will not be a Commissioner. I hope you as more competent to be elected there and help with your expertise. Mr. Gutsanov, for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I didn't understand where you and I were going because you protected South Stream the way I spoke. When we talk about Belene, I am pleased that you mentioned that it was the Movement for Rights and Freedoms that has always been against nuclear energy. I hope that now that there is another view in Europe on this topic, and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is also going to change its view on nuclear energy and will finally be built "Belene" or new nuclear facilities in Bulgaria. It is interesting how colleagues from GERB missed that the brand new turbine for Belene was sold in their management and it already works at the Kaliningrad nuclear power plant and produced electricity for a long time, and this thing could have been here in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] How we comment then, I am glad that it was recalled that it was not during the time of Oresharski that the closing of the South Stream and its ban took place, but at another time and how then Prime Minister Borisov boasted that it was he who stopped the South Stream. So, honourable Members, let us be careful when we make these speeches, because we can see which Prime Minister at what time what speeches he made and spoke. [[Heckling]] As for Mrs. Iskra Mihaylova, whether she is on the subject. Mrs. Mihailova, I answered because a colleague of yours came up with an absolutely false topic. And as for what BSP has said and what it has commented on payments with Gszprom, I think it is very clear that we have spoken our position and it has become very clear that we want to continue the talks with Gsprom,...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u378	Mr. Gutsanov, and to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u379	...for Bulgaria to be able to supply the best possible prices, regardless of who they are from, whether they are going to be a Gszprom, or from another place, but no one should be excluded from these negotiations as long as it is the best price for Bulgaria and there is predictability during the supply. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u380	Mr. Gutsanov, thank you. For a statement? [[National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Colleagues, I ask that we focus on speeches, indeed, and that they be specific on the subject. This discussion, if we are to be objective, must be conducted when the Commission's report is drawn up. Are we going to repeat the discussion we're having right now? [[Heckling]] And argue with gas prices, oil supplies and Mr. Ovcharov, with Jean Videnov? [[Noise and lines.]] With Jean Videnov, okay. For a statement? Mrs. Atanasova, to speak, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u382	Here you go. [[Heckling]] Mrs. Atanasova is long before you, Mr. Georgiev, then I will give you your word. [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u383	For procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u384	Okay, for procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova. For a statement, Mr. Gadget? [[Reply.]] Great. Mr. Anastasov and you for speaking? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Mr. Gutsanov, in his speech, admitted an inaccuracies, and you didn't make a remark to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u386	Mrs. Petkova, I'll take your word for it if the procedure is not with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u387	Just to say that the old equipment for Belene. [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u388	I'm sorry, Mrs. Petkova, I'm taking your word and we're not going to continue this anarchy in this room. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mrs. Atanasova will take an attitude, I'm sure. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, a serious debate again. This debate could have been replaced by the conclusions in the Commission report if, Mr. President, both you and President Minchev had entered into your role and function and had scheduled within the one-month period for the work of the Commission its meetings. The fact that you, Mr. President, Mr. Presidents, one of whom was ex-Jvanov and Minchev did not take on your role and this committee was created and did not make use of the time for which it was created, and it was created in May, today we are 13 July, and let us say that the one-month period has expired and now we are again having a debate in plenary on its creation. By the way, we don't really know if we're going to elect a chairman again. And from now on, Mr. President Ivanov, I ask you, if this does not happen, however, for the short time that remains in this Parliament, to do everything necessary and to schedule at least a few meetings of this committee, because it is evident that it is among all the Members who have spoken before me that there is a need for such a debate. I very much want the subject of the debate to be about the establishment of this temporary committee, not to go back in time and quote former prime ministers, because it seems to me that after a time when it comes to quoting the present in resignation, it will be just scary. I don't know if anyone's gonna know exactly what he meant, when he said it, what it was about, and in what sense. But I would like to make a single clarification, because it is important for the debate, and it is about the memories of the former prime ministers, and mainly to the colleagues who are still arguing when the equipment is sold in "Belene" and it was located in Kaliningrad. I hope to your good memory, colleagues from BSP mostly, it was sold in 2007, the turbine was sold there, something more, sold at a loss. Dragomir Stoynev is a former energy minister and if he wants, he can disprove me, but I am convinced that he knows the answer and will not do it. I would very much like this committee, which we will set up today, and I hope it will work, to answer several other questions than those put by my colleagues in the very motives, by Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova in the exposition of her speech. Questions, for example, about why the gas connection with Greece was not completed in December, are still on the agenda. And although we saw Prime Minister Petkov the other day on the torque crane, he didn't answer why seven months after the start-up period we still don't know what the extension of that deadline required. More importantly, however, it is probably the answer to another question: have the delays been paid by the company that delayed this project by seven months? It was to be completed on 31 December 2021. These and, of course, many other questions will probably become the subject of the discussion. However, the most important thing is this committee at last, and I hope for ever to establish several facts in an indisputable way. First, that Balkan Stream is an entirely Bulgarian project. Second, that the gas connection has not been built in the last 12 years or the last 10 years, and the construction started in 2019. October. Thirdly, that the governments of GERB worked for real diversification. And yes, everyone deserves what they signed back in time. Just a few days ago, we had a press conference where we also took the credit of President Parvanov, but we took the credit of all the others who contributed to Bulgaria's really not being in trouble in the gas deliveries, something that is not happening now because of absolutely wrong management decisions. I do not wish to recall anything else, said by the current Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, but surely someone will interpret it at some point, but was it not the Russian Federation that was a! In this sense, let us return to the subject, set up this committee, and enable it to complete its work objectively and report to society not to us, who deserves what and for what. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u390	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Do you have lines? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u391	For a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u392	For a personal explanation? Mr. Minchev, come in for a personal explanation. Until you come to the stands, I'll take a line. I do not recall from the Members of the National Assembly of 14 who were elected to this committee, which of them?! [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] It was a practice procedure. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Well, you turned to me, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mrs. Atanasova! To remind the facts of the case, and they are that on 9 June, which was Thursday, we voted on the creation of the Commission. Then, the very next Wednesday, on the 15th, you asked for my resignation and, of course, as per the regulations, we voted on it the next day. In general, you didn't leave me so much time when to convene this committee of my own, on which we didn't vote, but, in fact, for its one-month term, for which it existed, it practically happens that perhaps its members... [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] Not from a place, Mr Hamid, please, perhaps its members or perhaps MPs could re-enter the program in accordance with art. 47, para. 3 the election of the Chair of the Temporary Commission, so that it can really work. And perhaps the other option is, of course, because it was still a draft decision from the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" and the new project is from you so that you can take the political dividends from the Commission's establishment now. Maybe that's the way it is. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u394	Thank you, Mr. Minchev. For a statement? [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] It's a personal explanation, no lines to you. Ivo Atanasov for speech. Angel Georgiev is next, and I'm recording Mr. Cholakov. [[National Representative Stanislav Anastasov wants the floor.]] Mr. Anastasov, there is a statement from the DPS group, so I give to the groups that have not spoken, respectively the independent ones. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u395	Mr. President, Members of Parliament, I voted for the establishment of the Commission on the previous point, I will vote for the establishment of this committee, too, because all evidence must be presented to the Bulgarian citizens, these committees must come out with reports and reveal the truth. I am impressed that representatives of all parties are exercising on the previous point and on how much they have done for Bulgarian energy and therefore it is in such a colorful state. But in order for these two committees to carry out the tasks for which they were created, I will address the Toshkovts of IHN: there is only one option. Toshkovtsi from IHN together with GERB, together with the DPS, the two parties that showed dependencies with the colleagues of ARG, brought down Nikola Minchev, also brought down the Bulgarian government. So they must be prepared to create a new government. That is, if they go and pray to GERB tomorrow not to return the mandate and form a government, then the committees will be able, within this one-month period, to carry out the tasks for which they are created and to come up with the reports so that citizens can be informed of the truth about the individual cases. This is my advice to the Toshkovts of the "There is such a people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u396	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Angel Georgiev for speech. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u397	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at ARGUING keep this committee to have it so that it can give answers to some very important questions that are still being asked in the Chamber today, for example: who stopped South Stream? Let's remind, especially the BSP group, also their constituents, for which this is very important, in 2014, or more precisely on June 8th, we read: The Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski has ordered the suspension of all actions on the South Stream gas pipeline. "This is happening at a press conference at which Oresharski is present together with three American senators and at which John McCain says: "Obviously we would like to see as little Russian participation as possible. "This is about BSP and their management together with the DPS, then with a mandate of BSP, supported by the DPS. Therefore, the Commission must answer such questions, such as: why BSP, which claim that they have not stopped South Stream, actually stopped it and why South Stream is bad, since Bulgaria would not pay anything, but would only win and therefore the demonized Russian Federation would pay, and consequently Turkish Stream is good, from which Bulgaria does not profit, but only invest in it? These are the important questions to which we must give answers to the Bulgarian public. Especially here are morally obliged by the BSP, of course, because they have ruled because they are directly responsible for this thing. Let them explain to their voters not only to the whole society, and let us make it clear to everyone who is behind the Bulgarian interests, no matter where the funding is when Bulgaria wins and who is not behind the Bulgarian interests and listens to other orders. So let us answer these questions, let us make this committee, and I think that every citizen of Bulgaria will be able for myself to be convinced of what really happened, who protects national interests and who does not protect them. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u398	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are you here for a line, Mr. Stankov? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u399	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, my line is for you. It is precisely in relation to some of the speech of your and other MPs that it is important to show in this committee exactly what the profit of each interconnector is. And let's be clear here, both the regulator and all the authorities, including at European level, have said that this project has 8% return, not 1%, not zero percent, not minus percent, but 8% return. This led to the fact that July last year the country received 683 million for transit on these pipelines, bearing in mind that it was not fully used because at the entrance we have 10% spare capacity and at the exit we have 20% spare capacity. In other words, even more could increase revenues, especially after Bulgaria built the LNG terminal as its co-owner in Alexandroupolis and increased the amount of gas to enter and exit the country. So I am pleased that you are putting these questions, but keep in mind that this is precisely the job of the Commission to establish from each gas connection, because I am personally of the opinion that every gas connection for the country is extremely important, no matter where and how the gas flowed, it brings additional revenue to the country, it brings energy security to the country, it brings Bulgaria the opportunity to retain its strategic position on the gas map of Europe and to continue to define the rules of the game not only in the Balkans, but also in Southeast Europe, because 60% of the compressors in the Balkan territory are located precisely on Bulgarian territory and these are not old compressors, depreciated, but brand new compressors that allow in both directions to carry gas quantities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u400	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. For the doppelganger? No. Mr. Anastasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u401	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First I will start by explaining to Mr. Minchev because he was not entirely correct in his speech. When the Commission was elected and the President was not elected, we can look at the shorthand, here Mr. Karadayi came out and reminded you of the order provided for by the Rules in such situations. And it is not to insert the point again, but to call a meeting of the committee and the committee at the first meeting to elect a chair from among its members. It's the simplest option. It's happened before, there are people with more parliamentary experience, it's been done. However, a fact for which we also did not get any explanation that a good month has gone away, and a lot of work has happened in this month related to the energy sources of Bulgaria and the dependencies of Russia. Somehow, however, this topic was not interesting to you again, as we just found out that Lukoil Neftohim is very interesting here. We make noise, we make fog and at some point when it comes to voting: wait a minute that there is some other work. That's what we're talking about, guys. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm looking at DB, but there's someone there who recognized them. That's what this is about, guys. Look, this is a major issue of trust in politics.. there should be a correlation between words and actions when we talk a lot, and at the last moment we do a turn 180 degrees or we do nothing, we definitely leave a bitter taste that we're covering something up. That's what happened to this committee. In a month, we could have held a meeting. As a matter of fact, at least declaratively in the Chamber, now I will remind Mr. Minchev that there have been several votes for this committee and it did not go from the first time to somehow there was no political will much, much. Since the third vote, if I'm not mistaken, we can still check, this committee has been adopted. Yet again, some who declare themselves Euro-Atlantic voted against the Commission twice in a row, and on the third time whether under pressure, whether because someone reminded them that they were or have not voted against the creation of the Commission, but then failed it. Mr. Leading Meeting, here I give an answer to your question why is there a debate here on the substance of the Commission? Because we are definitely worried that you will do the same thing again that the Commission will hang, the National Assembly will leave and on this subject we will not bring out all the facts and circumstances. Here, by the way, many colleagues speak both in detail and in detail. What we wanted, I will only recall, is to remove all objective facts and circumstances without making interpretations of what and why and to make recommendations for diversification. Otherwise, we can talk a lot about this wasted time in the last year and a half. Yeah, we owe her an answer as to why the interconnector is funny. However, we also owe an answer as to why the investment intention for a terminal in Alexandroupolis was approved only at the beginning of the year, and what has the Bulgarian state been doing in these nice eight months since it managed the Change? What talks have we had with Greece? Have we ever had any conversations? Because there were other trials there. Did we try to convince them in any way that we had to do this project in parallel with the other one they were leading? Because at the moment we have a pipe that, yes, has not been signed, there is no act 16, they cut twice ribbons from the government. Nothing new under the sun, by the way, if you think they invented the hot water. We've seen it many times, as they say, smiles from the old tapes. The fact is, however, that there is no terminal at the other end, and this pipe has a capacity of just over three billion cubic feet. On these matters you here at least in the discussion, colleagues, had little to push any answer to give. The PP is the main factor of the management.. still continues to remain silent, even BSP were bolder to come out. At least they have always been open to their energy priorities, although they have differed from ours, as we have talked to them without emotions, purely pragmatic. But here you had to explain why one month this committee slowed her down and failed her. Why did it take another month to cover up some stories? And at the same time, of course, Kiril Petkov with his litmus to practice and to speak to us whatever comes in a semi-familiar language. Because that's what this time is really about. I don't mind those who have a different opinion than ours on the DPS, neither do we, colleagues. But when talking about facts and circumstances, when dealing with suggestion, come on, I will not use the word lie, what was....................then, colleagues, there is no way to keep quiet and there is no respect for this opinion, which is based on lie and suggestion. And on these subjects, that is exactly what you do and leave with us the impression that that is why you do not want this committee. By the way, today is Wednesday, if we vote on this committee, as we voted on the Programme, if we fail to elect a President, Mr President, you should call a meeting of this committee tomorrow and make it work if we want to do something. Everything else is clear as action. The colleague from ARGUMENT would be really happy if this committee didn't work. I don't know, maybe they want all the facts and circumstances to come out because they don't mind some things. This is a position that also deserves respect, but it is important to know here all about who, when, what he has done. Thanks, guys. I hope this time you'll do better than last time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u402	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Cholakov to speak. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we may be tired already, but let me also say two words on this subject. Of course, we support the creation of the Commission. It will not probably have much time, but it seems important to me how it will begin its work and what tasks it will assign to the administration, because the Commission will nevertheless assign tasks to the administration, and it is good, once the next National Assembly is assembled, that little work has been done, that facts and information have been collected, because I assume that in the next term of the next National Assembly, such a commission will be set up again and that, in order not to waste time, the time to prepare the information that will be needed. Now, for me, colleagues, it is beyond any doubt, and it is clear that information will be gathered in the subject of the Commission's activities, as it is well outlined. When did the pipeline start to build? Why did he stop? How did he stop? Whether or not it was built, there must have been some delay in one project or another. What is good, however, is that the projects that have been launched have been completed and this is good. After all, everything that has been built is good and must be welcomed. Mr. Martin Dimitrov, however, made a note on which I want to refer very strongly. It is about the fact that in his introductory statement Mr. Zhecho Stankov pointed out that the Cel Faida, by building pipelines if there would be no gas. This whole discussion is going again, we're looking for the rabbit in a thorn where it's not there, it may be that there's no gas for these pipelines. And in fact, the more serious question might not have been whether South Stream could have been built, and it wasn't built, but a Balkan stream was built if there was no gas. As a lawyer, I've always had one nightmare, and it's the nightmare of termination. The termination of a contract is basically an explosion in the system. The termination of a contract becomes much more complicated than the conclusion of a contract, it's surgical work, it's a very precise job, it wants a lot of thinking. It can't go out one morning as the new leaders imagine it, it gets up one morning and says, "Give it to me, I'm breaking it up, it's gone, it's gone." Because when you say I'm breaking this contract right now, and that's it, then you can pay so much that you better do it twice. I've had a case like this. I've had this case where I've watched a state enterprise terminate a contract forcefully with a counterparty because it wants to punish him, and then it paid so much as irresistibility that the caller better have done it to the end. I agree, Mr. Dimitrov, that these matters should not be spoken, I agree that we should not predict what will happen, there is no right of our own, if there are ever court cases, arbitrations, they will rule, they will decide, hardly our opinion is how relevant. But what I want to say is two things about your speech. One is a little late you remembered to ask my colleagues to be nationally responsible and to help. They told you several times, I will say it even more clearly: you should have asked them before your young colleagues went to terminate contracts or do any other actions, ask experienced people because I am sure that you know and believe that they are well-intentioned. They have participated in these processes and they would not like to see the interests of Bulgaria being harmed. And certainly, if they were consulted, they would have given their competent and professional opinion so as to protect the interests of Bulgaria and not insult them for months and then say: "Well, why aren't you helping, but why aren't you nationally responsible? Well, why didn't you ask when it was time? Why after that? Why, when it's all over? That's one thing I want to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u404	Mr. Cholakov, and you're moving away from the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u405	I'm coming, I'm coming. No, it's not a mandate that I'd like to assign to the future committee, and she'd like to assign it to the administration. What I would like to ask the members of the Commission to ask the administration, even if there was only one meeting, to collect all the documents, all the information and all the facts about the termination of the gas supply contracts. Who's been giving opinions? Who signed it? What kind of e-mails did they run? Who told whom to commit or not to perform one or another act? Because there will come a day when these documents must be taken out and someone must be held responsible. So, colleagues, if someone is going to cancel contracts without thinking, and then the state has to pay, I, whether I'm here or not, want to know who's guilty personally. Do you understand? And you will all want to know, so let the Commission at the only or first meeting that it held, assign to the administration of the Ministry of Energy, in the Council of Ministers, keep all documents relating to the termination of contracts holy, so that the next term when it comes, will name who was the one who sent the emails and gave Taliban instructions, without even knowing what it was about and how much it might be necessary for this country unhappy to pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u406	Is there a line to that statement, fellow Members?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u407	What's the unhappy country?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u408	Please ask him, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Ganev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mr. Cholakov, you surprised me very much. You have informed me of a fact which I was not aware of, namely that there is some kind of terminated contract. There isn't one! "Bulgargaz" has a contract with GazpromExport, which is active. Nobody's shutting it down. There is a payment sent by Bulgaria, which is not accepted by the Russian side, as a result of which the Russian side stops supplies. Bulgaria continues to declare all its supplies. Bulgaria continues to pay. Talk to Mr. Stankov about the capacity for these deliveries. There's no contract canceled. There is a non-executive contract, but this, as you well know as a lawyer, is different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u410	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Chenchev, a line? Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u411	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Cholakov, this is about something a little different than what you said, not hurting. Because, if there is an international dispute, the speeches from this House can be taken and used against the interest of Bulgaria, Mr. Cholakov. I have addressed people to be careful what they say here, because every word they say can be used in a case against Bulgaria and you know that very well. This has happened in the past, by the way. And I hope that once your colleagues have done so twice, this will not happen a third time, because Bulgaria's interest will be damaged. That is, not harming is different from having a national consensus. I mean, not hurting is the first thing, and the second thing is everyone doing the good that they can do. However, indeed, colleague Cholakov, I hope that from today onwards we will no longer be witnessing such an argument and such a conversation, because, again, everything that is said by this tribune, such as some three billion, which have appeared from your colleagues.........................of the treaty what it was, what happened to it, can also be used against Bulgaria. Qualifications which was the right and which was the wrong country can also be used against Bulgaria. Why are you doing this thing?! We're experienced, responsible people! We have no right to this kind of behavior, and I believe you will understand. I'm very well-meaning what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u412	Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Cholakov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First to Mr. Ganev to tell Mr. Ganev, I correct myself. Actually, I used the word termination technically for clarity. Of course the legal case is a little more complicated, a little more complicated, which does not cancel what I asked the Commission to gather all the facts about... [[Noise and lines.]] No, no. It's okay. We don't have time, okay? We don't have time! I'm asking the person I can ask right now to gather all the facts, all the circumstances. To keep them, because one day they may have to be open and review who gave what opinions and who made what decisions based on what opinions. As for Mr. Dimitrov, and I completely well-meaning, Mr. Dimitrov, I agree with you on some things should not be said. But if we all want the truth to come out... So I urge my appeal: collect really all the facts that when the truth begins to come out, the whole truth comes out, including the actions of this government that is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u414	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I had to take the floor because so many MPs here know about energy and give brains and opinions... Well, now some of them are how they were, waiters, others are taxi drivers, but ultimately it's important that everyone has an opinion about what's going on in the energy sector. I will begin, ladies and gentlemen, that the real, true diversification that Europe could have received was the so-called project "Nabucco" in which two or three governments worked terribly hard. When the European Commission gave up the project, I admit that I, as a minister, felt betrayed because it was a really important, extremely important project for us. It was bet on the TAP project, but the real one, which wants diversification, which was supposed to happen for the European Union and Europe, was precisely the project - the Nabucco project. Then, after GERB also worked on the South Stream project, we pushed twice as fast to work on this project. And that is why I am pleased that it is precisely this committee to clarify these things. Thus this project was made, ladies and gentlemen, that the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian taxpayer, would not give a penny. Everything was paid with the dividend that works. Even if there was no gas, the pipes remained owned and the amounts owed were not paid. And this project was indeed an entirely Bulgarian project. We have made so much progress on the project, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a construction permit, there was a technical project. The pipes at the port of Varna were clogged, the ships were here to build the project. And someone explaining that the Oresharski government has stopped this project is just ridiculous. Yes, there was such a meeting that I, unfortunately, was not present because I was in Shanghai at that time Bulgaria was designated to be a leading country in the project. I didn't attend this meeting, but of those who attended, it was never about the US senators for the South Stream project. That is what the Prime Minister said at the time, but then the subject of this project has never been raised. I'm really interested. I hope there's this committee to see how South Stream is stopped. And I don't know why GERB sewed it up because it wasn't stopped by their government. [[Noise and lines.]] And I can't understand why you sew it up and enjoy it, because this is happening during the time of the minister of the service during the government of Plevneliev. There are already e-mails, there's everything that's been sent. With us, everything was... There was talk of no new procedures, but we had already completed everything, so there was nothing to stop, and we just had to start building. Very strange, though, how the government suddenly fell. How did the government of Plamen Oresharski fall if they could really start the real action on this project? So let's see, let's be clear how it was sent. And I very much hope some people don't make any claims the way they're stopped. About nuclear energy, which was also affected. Yeah, there was an old equipment that was really given. But why? Because he already had a contract for the Belene project. Ladies and gentlemen, every respectable country that is part of the nuclear family, and when we see that the Kozloduy nuclear power plant, however we extend the lives of these blocks to continue to be part of the nuclear family, we need new capacities. Belene was a good project. Because here the colleagues from the DPS say, "Belene, when you were BSP, didn't start." Ladies and gentlemen, one month after my inauguration the Russians filed a case against Bulgaria. When there is a case, you have no right to negotiate with them on this subject. If it wasn't for this case, I'm pretty sure this project would've had a green light. It's the truth! But from now on, we really need to think about what and whether it is necessary and when we will start building new nuclear facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u416	Mr. Stoinev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u417	About another... because there is also talk of Burgas "Alexandroupolis." Here already GERB really stopped this project. But think about it, guys. At the moment we prefer to dump tankers with an old equipment instead of having a modern equipment, the Burgas oil pipeline, and not to depend solely on Russian oil. And if at the moment there was this oil pipeline, we could dump the tankers on Alexandroupolis, from there to carry the oil to Lukoil, to the refinery, and Bulgaria could really benefit from real diversification. Unfortunately, we missed that again. Regarding what happened with the last stop, it is not a stop, but the current gas crisis. We saw personally from the Prime Minister, who told us that there was no decision of the Council of Ministers. So the ministers of BSP have nothing to do with the vote or the way in which the decision was made to stop supplies with Russia. Once and for all, that must be clear! Moreover, from this extraordinary committee that we are on, we have asked for a letter to see about this decision in the Council of Ministers who voted how. Turns out there's no such solution. Here, let this committee handle it and see exactly what happened. That's why such a committee should have. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We can talk a lot about energy, we can really argue. I am convinced that every government has worked for the interests of the country. The point is that when it comes to our national interest, it is necessary to ultimately have a union. At the moment when there is a war, when the threat is outside, we unfortunately cannot yet express unity, express support for the government or for the next, which will be to pursue our national interest. Here, who found out, who didn't know, who heard, who... We will not say who is in what profession, but the important thing is that our dividend should not be the leader of the political dividend. Here the host should be the national interest. And when there's a fight, and when there's a real struggle going on, there's no way to get the big energy projects. Yeah, the gas line's slowing down. Anyone can take credit for... Maybe earlier, maybe later... The sooner we do it, the better for us. Yes, during the Oresharski government really did the most to have this famous gas with Azerbaijan. May God come quickly. Yes, it did, thanks to President Parvanov's connections, but unfortunately, the years are passing, and we are not making any progress. That's pathetic. Let's have this committee. Let's find out who did this. Let's make it clear who stopped what. We at BSP have no concern and let us be clear once and for all. But from now on, it is important to have a union to pursue our national interest. Because countries are ahead of us, countries are investing, and unfortunately, we, instead of going forward, are going backwards. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u418	Are there any lines, colleagues? Hristo Gadget. I don't know what line you'll be able to make after such a famous statement, Mr. Gajev. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u419	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stoyne-e-e-e-e-e-e, here, here, I'm making you a line. You, apparently ecstatic by the loud applause of your group, did not understand. Now on the subject of Turkish Stream, who stopped Turkish Stream. As far as I can tell from your statement... South Stream, I apologize so many streams today. So from your statement, as I understand it, you say that South Stream has been stopped by the caretaker government and the Minister of Economy and Energy Schonov, right? And he did this thing, getting up early in the morning, without any preparation, he made his political decision. Okay, do you know where Mr. Schonov is right now? Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bulgarian Development Bank, appointed personally by Kiril Petkov as Minister of Economy. You, as the Political Party BSP, said a little earlier that the three main, fundamental projects of BSP have always been "Belene", South Stream and Burgas "Alexandroupolis" will you seek any responsibility within this remaining government, of which you are part, of the people who have stopped one of your top goals? Although we have always believed that these are wires of Russian interests in Bulgaria, energy especially, this, as you said, are the main priorities of BSP. In this regard, have you put on your coalition partners this red line for the realization of any of these projects or any of their extension during this government, or has this become another pink ribbon that has been converted? Unfortunately, Mr. Stoynev, now, speaking of the decision to suspend the implementation of the contract with the Council of Ministers, one part of the administration of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister themselves claim to have a solution; another part says there is no solution. Well, aren't you part of this department? Your ministers of the BSP, do they happen to go to the Council of Ministers, or do they miss going? Because it happens that for many solutions you simply have a sharp disagreement, but you are actually retreating from your red lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u420	You still haven't heard, Christo! Come on, let me explain it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u421	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Alexander Nenkov. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Stoynev, now you are talking nicely about some unification that energy really is perhaps one of the most important industries on which the entire economy of the country is based. And you speak well of unification, only I have the feeling that we are now in a situation where we are already minimizing or trying in some way to go after the events, because the decision, especially with the suspension of supplies by the Gsprom, has already been made. Excuse me, Mr. Stoinev, but it sounds very unserious to me how you, as a parliamentary group and as a ruling coalition, want a letter from the Council of Ministers to see who has made a decision. Well, it's not serious. With all due respect, this does not go to a party like BSP to look for a letter, provided it participates in this coalition. The worst, however, that has impressed me in your speech, we have repeatedly said and warned, not only on the topic of gas, but also on the topic of energy, that we have recently talked about price crises. Now you yourself are saying a energy crisis. You know what an energy crisis means. And very soon, Mr. Stoynev, listening to what they are saying and from the company, by listening to the comments of experts, will come the moment when all of us, except us, come on, we are opposition, we have not made such decisions, but you in this coalition will start running like the devil from incense from the person who made this decision, single or non-important. But you can't escape that responsibility, understand it. No matter what red lines you put yourself, who you jumped them, who became white, pink, never mind, you have that responsibility. And the worst part is, since the Change came, because you and I have worked very long years...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u423	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u424	One sentence. We have worked for many long years and you know very well that GERB as both governors, and as opposition we have tried to look for some common points. Starting from the construction of the Balkan Stream, you have also supported other important topics that you have supported as an opposition party, and not just you. Colleague Ramadan Atalay rightly said that, for example, they have always been against nuclear energy and have defended this thing. We've always been looking for some common ground! Now we're kind of going after the events and we're waiting for the fast train to hit us. He's gonna hit us pretty soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u425	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u426	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will give a general answer to both questions to honourable Members. We don't run away from responsibility. BSP can be held responsible, and we have proved that over the years. Since there was a question to us: how the decision was made, we insisted on having this answer because we know from our ministers that there is really no such solution, and we were convinced. It's not about looking for a letter and showing it. I am simply saying that in the committee concerned we were asked for such a letter, which has already been provided to us and which clearly states that there is no decision of the Council of Ministers but has been taken in an operational meeting, nor is it known how anyone has voted. In other words, there is no such decision of the Council of Ministers for me personally, but I am not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u427	Yes, but the fact is the fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u428	I can tell you that I am talking about an energy crisis and it is not only for Bulgaria... it is for the whole of Europe. Colleagues, there's a war after all. Russia is interrupting supply, and Europe seems to be having a hard time finding a solution. I seriously doubt that if it is any other political force, it will find a solution immediately. There's just no gas, no liquefied gas at the moment, so it's very difficult to make these deliveries to the country. BSP was responsible. I am not saying now about any decision almost to embrace each other, but when it comes to national interest and when Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova wanted a change in the Strategy, this strategy was voted unanimously in the Chamber. Is that right? Whenever there was a constructive desire for work and when BSP saw that national consensus was sought, for the sake of national interest we supported it. But in the future, it is extremely important for us to have new energy projects - let us not be divided by the principle: where is the equipment coming from and what is the equipment, but rather whether this project is useful to the country or not, whether the price is very high or not - to be the common one, and whether Bulgaria needs this project. Because, as has been said, these are Bulgarian projects, which serve our national interest. And this division, who has done it to me personally, is disastrous. So let there be this committee, I call, let it be seen once and for all. I deliberately didn't name the person and how it happened, I don't like to give sentences from the stand. After all, let this committee do its job, let it be seen, but let it be known that in the future, when there will be large energy projects, it is necessary to have a national union, if we can. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u429	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Nestorov, you have the floor. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to support this Commission because many circumstances, actions and omissions arise from its subject, some of which can be punished. I hope the Commission will establish these things. Moreover, this Commission emerges, from its subject a lot of Litmusi. "Litmusi" of the kind that someone of the "Litmusi Movement for Rights and Freedoms" had something to do with these projects. So far, no evidence has been found on this subject that anyone from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has anything to do with these projects. Another list emerges from this subject, where some 20 people, including Nikolay Pavlov, who was the only person who saved two thirds of the supplies of Azeri gas, only and only that government, which had done nothing more on the subject, could say that it produced some gas. Why? Because this tube of IGB isn't going to start gas anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u431	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, please take your seats so we can move on to the vote. Honourable Members, I put to the vote the draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning gas pipelines for the transport of natural gas from the Russian Federation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The project was read by Mr. Stankov, so I'm not going to reread it. Please, voting mode. They voted 210 MPs: for 209, against 1, no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. I ask the parliamentary groups to present their nominations for a Chamber and, respectively, for a Chair. Mr. Ghurov, come on in on behalf of the Change Continue. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are proposing Mr. Petar Kulenski and Mr. Ivan Manev and Ivan Manev as Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u433	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. From GERB-SDS, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u434	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS we propose Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova and Mr. Zhecho Stankov as members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u435	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Tsonev from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the parliamentary group of the DPS, Stanislav Anastasov and Ramadan Atalay, as Stanislav Anastasov, we are proposing him as chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u437	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. From BSP Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u438	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria we offer MPs Philip Popov and Dragomir Stoinev as members.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u439	Members, no chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. There's such a people, Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u440	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we offer Snezhanka Trayanska and Plamen Abrovski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u441	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. From "Democratic Bulgaria." Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u442	We offer Zarko Marinov and Petar Marinov as members of the Commission from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u443	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor for nominations from the Parliamentary Group of Revival. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u444	Mr. Chairman, we offer Tsoncho Ganev and Iskra Mihailova as members, as Mrs. Mihailova is also the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-13.u445	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. My fellow Members, I am voting on the composition of the Commission so represented. Vote 208 MPs: for 208, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. I will put to the vote all three nominations, respectively, for the President of the Commission. We begin with Mr. Ivan Manev's candidacy, presented by Please, voting mode. They voted 210 MPs: 115, against 66, abstention 29. That's how the offer is accepted. I now put to the vote the nomination of Mr. Stanislav Anastasov from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Vote 206 MPs: for 89, against 53, abstention 64. That's why the offer isn't accepted. And now I put to the vote the nomination of the MP Iskra Mihailova from the Parliamentary Group of Revival. They voted 205 MPs: 65, against 61, abstention 79. Colleagues, there's an important message.......................I request your attention for a few more seconds and stay in your seats. The important message, colleagues, is that we have an elected President of the Commission and this is Mr. Ivan Manev. [[Applause.]] Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, we are finishing today's work. Colleagues, the next regular plenary session will take place tomorrow, 14 July 2022, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
