ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u1	We have the necessary quorum and we can begin our sitting. I can see that there is some excitement, colleagues, but still, if we may, we can now move on to operating mode. Yesterday a draft decision for examination and voting was received in accordance with the established order for early release of the President of the National Assembly Mr. Nikola Minchev and the relevant motives to him. In this regard, on the basis of art. 47, para. 5 and in relation to Art. 5, para. 4 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that on the agenda of the National Assembly a new item 5a should be included in which to examine the draft decision for early release of the President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u2	Back offer! Mr. Vigenin, back-up procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u3	You can do the procedure, but in general...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u4	I can reverse the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u5	Wait a minute, let's not start with the nerves of the day. There are rules. The President may make the relevant proposals. Let us vote on this proposal and then I will give you the floor for other procedures. In order for there to be no doubt, as chairman of the sitting, I will then propose that we extend the time, if necessary, until the fourth and fifth items are exhausted on the agenda, so that we can be sure that we will have votes on both points within the plenary day. Please, voting mode. Vote 231 MPs: for 224, against 2, abstention 5. The proposal to include item 5th on the agenda is accepted. Okay, first of all, I'll give you the floor, Mr. Yordanov, since you requested it for a procedural proposal, then I will make the other proposal that I informed you about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that the resignation point of the President of the National Assembly be item four, that is to say, first for today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. Yes, come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u8	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ministers, honourable Members! I am making a reverse proposal because I believe that, as point one and as far more important to the needs of society, it is to consider the State Budget Bill. As the President has already pointed out, the time will be extended and the request for the resignation of the President of the National Assembly will be considered as point two anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Now, I will put Mr. Yordanov's proposal to the vote, as we have some ambiguity in the Rules. The proposal I made was included in the programme as point five, but I think that we can allow a vote to exchange this points, nevertheless, so that we can start in a good tone of the sitting. Moreover, I hope that you will still accept the next proposal I will make to extend the time until the two points are exhausted if necessary. Please vote on Mr. Yordanov's proposal. Vote 234 MPs: 123, against 109, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Reply to the left: "Reply to the left! "]] Did I hear that? Yeah. Please re-vote. Voting mode. Vote 235 MPs: 124 against 108 abstentions 3. The proposal is confirmed, we can say. I am now making a procedural proposal, if necessary, that plenary be extended today until the fourth and fifth items are exhausted on the agenda. As it became clear, item four is the proposal for a decision to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, item five will be the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, voting mode. Vote 234 MPs: for 219, against none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. So, with these details, we begin the program for today's meeting with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRE-FREE GODN NIKOLA MINCHEV THE GUY OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Please provide the importers with the reasons for the draft decision. Mr. Yordanov is first on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision for the early release of the President of the National Assembly Mr. Nikola Minchev with motives to him. I request that the draft decision be submitted for consideration and voting. We also propose a decision for early release of Nikola Minchev, President of the National Assembly: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Nikola Minchev from the position of President of the National Assembly. I'll read your motives, page and something. The draft decision under art. 5, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of the National Assembly are related to continuous failure to comply with the obligations within the competence of the President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev and the systematic and rude violation of the Rules of the National Assembly as well as exceeding his rights. It's broken and art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On 10 June 2022, on the basis of Article... [[(The President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev enters the Chamber. We continue the Change, DPS, BSP for Bulgaria, and Democratic Bulgaria. Huge and long applause. Voice by DPS: "Bravo, Nikola!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u11	Go on, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u12	After this event, comparable to a BCP convention, I continue. On 10 June 2022, on the basis of art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution was submitted a request by one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly with an IC. No 47 254-00-74 to convene an extraordinary closed meeting of the National Assembly to provide information on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union, pursuant to art. 40, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The President shall hold a meeting no later than seven days after the receipt of the request. The conditions for this shall be the request to be signed by at least 48 Members of the Parliament and to have an agenda set out. Both conditions are met. It is not argued by the President of the National Assembly that no order has been specified for consideration of the points and the person who will present the information, as this is not a requirement of the Rules, and the National Assembly's Programme does not specify the persons who will be invited to attend the plenary. It is undeniable that at this point the competent minister is the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The norms are imperative and their non-compliance leads to a gross violation of the Constitution and the Rules of the National Assembly. There is hardly a more sensitive topic for the Bulgarian people than for Macedonia. The alleged existence of newly discovered facts and actions by state authorities, which give doubts about the correctness and legality of the negotiation process of the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union, are exceptional circumstances in themselves. The requirement for a pre-declared agenda in this case cannot be used as an excuse for not calling for an extraordinary meeting, since according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, competent for the conduct of the foreign policy and negotiation process within the European Union is the only Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 On 15 June 2022, during the regular meeting of the National Assembly, a proposal was made for the inclusion of a new item first, namely 110 of the Rules on the process of accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union. In the course of the discussion it became clear that documents classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information relating to the Hearing were received in the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 44, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure must be closed without discussing and voting. Despite the statement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs that in his report he will refer to the classified documents received, the meeting was not closed in violation of art. 44, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With these actions, in addition to violating the Rules of the National Assembly, the President deliberately prevented the overall hearing of the Foreign Minister Mrs. Teodora Genchovska. 3. Obstruction of normal legislative activity and effective parliamentary control. Drafts on which the discussion and voting are to be completed shall not be submitted in due course to the plenary. An example of this is the Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-254-01-56. Parliamentary control is not carried out in a timely manner by preventing the timely hearing of ministers by the government. There are 120 signatures collected under these motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposed draft decision. I give the floor to Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Members of Parliament, the Mafia asked for its state, the mafia unceremoniously wants to hit the top of our parliamentary republic. A few days after we crossed the criminal schemes of Captain Andreevo, after we stopped the transit of money from highways to drawers, we made it clear that the Anti-Corruption Commission would work, and led by a man who did not tremble in front of the backstage. The Mafia makes today's decisive living room to destabilize the state because, no matter how panicky parliamentary pitfalls are launched, no matter how butaphorical foreign political scenes are put in place, one thing is clear: it is about money. This is an act of attack on the Speaker of Parliament, the man at one of the highest positions in the country. It is clear to everyone here that the youngest president in the history of the Bulgarian Parliament is a brilliant lawyer who leads this institution with honor and not with procedures and grips. He has repeatedly proved to be a guardian of political morality. All of you of all groups in the towers have acknowledged that you appreciated Nikola Minchev high and although there was no previous experience, he quickly became one of the most successful presidents that the National Assembly had. You know perfectly well that you have no argument against this extremely young man. The goal is clear.. there is a need for intimidation. The truth is that the target was placed on Nikola Minchev before the meeting yesterday. Do not be fooled that people have forgotten the threats we have heard here before the parliamentary bell rings. The Mafia show would go on, whatever Nikola Minchev had done. You all know the Macedonian script is a fake. Yesterday it became clear to the blind that there are no secret agreements or promises that all reproaches in this direction are an absolute fiction of the man from the sofa who wanted to sell the national interest against a deal for the lifting of visas for the Bulgarians to the US. Now you accuse Nikola Minchev of helping the few who remained deceived by false patriotic slogans to see, and he simply fulfilled the will of the voting MPs in the Chamber. If you'd done the opposite, you'd still have asked for his resignation. Recently, I heard a man scream hysterically: 'For Macedonia's sake!' in an interview on the radio. Don't be fooled by yelling. They're trying to silence the truth. Each of you knows that there is no way through his head as an MP to lift the veto, but there is, however, a danger through our heads as deputies behind the backstage to enter a new coalition. The vote on the resignation of the President of Parliament is a test. Today the mafia will count their votes in the hall! There's still time to stand on the right side of history. [[You're the Mafia! The Mafia is in the fold!]] The moment for our country is critical and that is not a hollow phrase. The missionaries, the mothers, the business, the farmers, every Bulgarian who pays bills expects us to vote the budget and be their allies... [[DSS and DSS lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u15	Please don't shout out loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u16	...not allies of criminal schemes and dirty money. This is the real conversation we need to have. I appeal to all the decent people in this room. Do not be silent witnesses of this custom clearance of accounts. If MPs are scared of the mafia, how can Bulgarians be brave? A year ago, they barely managed to get their country out of the backyard, and they entrusted it to us to protect it. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] Don't let them down! Some chief may call you traitors from the sofa on Facebook, but you may not meet him again, but you will see your families, relatives, friends, fellow citizens, and you should be able to look them in the eye. Do not betray the Bulgarians and Bulgaria to the mafia! You won't be able to forgive yourself. Thank you. [[(Extreme applause) (Extreme applause) (Extreme applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. First line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u18	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u19	Let's see if there are any lines first, and I'll give you the floor of speech. I can't see any lines. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, in the manner of conduct, and the next statement is Mr. Yordanov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to guide you. In this speech, insulting qualifications were given to the Members of the National Assembly. One hundred and twenty people, elected by the Bulgarian people legitimately by various spectra of the political system, have signed a legitimate request for resignation of the President of the National Assembly with motives. How do you feel about leading the meeting not to make a comment about this insult to the people who have chosen us all? I can't imagine, I can't imagine calling anyone in this room a mafia, because that means I call the mafia the ones who chose it. [[noise and lines from.. Continue Change............................]] Dear Mr. Chairman, this is a disgrace and a bottom for the Bulgarian Parliament! The fact that resignation is requested, that political processes are under way, which are described in the Constitution and which are described in the Rules of the National Assembly, gives us no reason to say things that stain the Bulgarian people, Bulgarian democracy and the Bulgarian state. A little of the statehood in Bulgaria is left anyway thanks to these people here! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I think that was more of a line, but I take it the note's on me. We can proceed with the procedures in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I don't think you paid enough attention to Mr. Tsonev's call. Let us preserve at least the little dignity that is left to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria... regardless of who we are today, regardless of who are ministers, and Bulgaria will have it after us. The institutions of Bulgaria must preserve them, Mr. Chairman! I appeal to you not to allow it. For you, if it is acceptable for someone to call you a mafia, do not allow the MPs of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian National Assembly and politicians in Bulgaria to be called a mafia of people who apparently make such an auto-assessment. Make it with you in your sittings, but not from the stands of the National Assembly! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I make a general call to try to keep the good tone today, but, of course, as you know, Mr. Karadayi, political discussion is sometimes a little sharper. That was yesterday, and it's probably gonna be today. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, so it will be today she from the PP will come out and speak frank lies, have no choice. We're gathered here today, so this point is about the chairman's resignation, and there's talk of sofas and mafia. I understand that for most of the MPs Slavi Trifonov is some mythical creature pulling the strings of the entire universe, especially for the disrespectful Prime Minister... [[Reply from the Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u25	Mr. Yordanov, we said we'd try to keep the good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u26	I'm trying, but he replicates me on my right. If he's quiet, I won't say anything about him, so make a remark to him. Being Prime Minister doesn't give him the right to call the National Assembly whenever he wants...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u27	Please respect each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u28	To take the floor and call.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u29	I ask that there be no calls from the ministers or from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u30	Thank you. So I understand that Mr. Trifonov is a sort of Voldemort that scares you all for vague reasons. [[Laughter]] But here we are gathered because of the President of the National Assembly still, as he clearly does not simply violate the Rules, but does what he is ordered to do. He was told yesterday to behave like this and the point that the meeting was not closed and he stubbornly without any shame and rules did what he did. As a matter of fact, that's what we're doing. We're continuing the change at all levels, including inside, while we were a coalition, they're just acting like that. We were present with you at the chairman's council and I was present in the chair's office when he couldn't make a decision about one thing or another because he didn't get a call from the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry, but the President of the National Assembly... [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] It's not bullshit, guys, 'cause I've been there. I am sorry, but the President of the National Assembly should stand an idea above the Council of Ministers, because we are the legislative body in this country, and the ministers are the performers of Parliament's decisions, and the opposite that I have seen with my own eyes is humiliating. It's just humiliating! So Mr. Nikola Minchev is very cool as a person, but here we are talking about his professional behavior, which is, to say the least, pathetic in such situations. [[(Replies from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u31	Please, guys! You can say it in a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u32	And for traitors, colleagues, you are the group made up of traitors, and you are the group that gathers traitors, you are the group that convinces people to be traitors...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u33	Mr. Yordanov! Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u34	...and the Prime Minister is the person who walks around personally to convince them, so it's not nice to call the Traitors.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u35	Well, that's the difference between them calling from the hall and you calling from the stands. We agreed we'd be careful with language.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u36	I didn't start it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u37	Do I want to see lines first? Mr. Ananiev, first, second, Mr. Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Mr. Yordanov, it is interesting that in order to talk about professional behavior, you should be a lawyer, not a writer. Clearly, the script is bad, the actors are bad too. The point is that the Bulgarian people are wise and they are not stupid. They can see the new coalition that is forming and know what is behind this coalition. He knows that the resignation against Nikola Minchev's personality has nothing to do with his professional behavior, because lawyers can come out and they will come out to say what happened yesterday, and in fact is there a problem with his professional behavior at all, but this scenario is getting tired of people. I know you've been doing scripts for 30 years, but this one's already worn out. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u39	Second line, Mr. Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Dear Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Slavi Trifonov misled the entire Bulgarian people that they would fight against the model GERB, some people believed him, some MPs believed him, some writers and pseudo-jurists, and pseudo-finalists believed that they would get some posters. And these people are currently helping the person Slavi Trifonov, who, by the way, came up with classified information about Macedonia, to commit the biggest betrayal in Bulgaria to mobilize people, to lie to them that he will fight against GERB, and then betray everyone, and you are accomplices to this. Thank you. [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change" and from Prime Minister Cyril Petkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u41	Third line, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! We all know that Mr. Yordanov is best off when people are silent, but I'm here to say that if you were looking right yesterday, you saw all very clearly on Vidovden what happened. It happened that there is such a people who broke dreams and ideals, and the things in which hundreds of thousands of people believed, hugging GERB, DPS and colleagues from... [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria" and Prime Minister Cyril Petkov.]] Thank you. If being a traitor means betraying what I believed in in the name of personal interests... [[DPS lines: "Execution of elections as independent! "]] Yeah, as an independent, okay. ...if it means being a traitor, it's an honor to be a traitor. Thank you. [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change" and Prime Minister Cyril Petkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u43	Hole, Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right, it looks like a party meeting of the BCP before 1989. [[(Replys from DPS:) Higher! You can't hear it!]] I said it really looks like a party meeting of the BCP before 1989. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u45	How do you know what meetings were like?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u46	Yeah, I've seen it on TV. I was a student. It was the same view. It's just pathetic!? Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, what can I say? Your words, if they made any sense at all, perhaps they would have some minimal moral weight if you were not an example of a florist circling all the political parties. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u47	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u48	Well, that's now, what do I do? There's a guy coming out who's been all over the political spectrum...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u49	There are ways to say these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u50	...because he landed at the P.I., he's trying to talk morale. It's not true! [[Laughs]] As for Mr. Angov. Now the fixation is on Slavi Trifonov and it's really touching, but it's really touching. Yes, he is the leader of the "There is such a people" but he is not a MP. There's no stupid ambition like other party leaders to be prime ministers, is there? This fixation: I have to be prime minister, if I'm not, life ends for me, right, not that thing. It's the only person who voluntarily comes out of power. Voluntarily!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u51	Tell me about the head of the BNB or a constitutional judge.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u52	Chief of BNB... Should I answer them from a place, or would it not be good?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u53	Better not, because the record doesn't know what you've been told, only your words remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u54	They don't know what they're saying, so... Yes, as far as fixation is concerned, Mr. Trifonov is truly touching. If you want me to introduce you to him, that's fine. If you do not wish, there is also no problem, but to justify your behavior and what we want at the moment, namely the resignation of the President, constantly with Mr. Trifonov for everything is a pity. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] For the last one, I'm in a very strange situation because I don't want to respond to traitors in general, so I'm going to talk about it in general. I know that in such situations the simple thing is to say that we are with GERB and DPS. It's simple, it's first notice, you have nothing else to say. [[(Noise and lines from..) We continue the ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u55	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u56	I know, I know it is, because there are no other parliamentary groups here, but it is also a fact that the President's resignation was proposed by our parliamentary group. The fact is that we gave up this disgraceful coalition and this disgraceful government alone without any participation GERB and DPS. It's a fact! We did it first, and we're walking on the things we've said and done and promised, as always. The fact that you don't like it is normal, it is normal, but take back the rest of the independent here, you know the sequel, and stop playing this theater of morality because your whole group really is. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Ah, my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u57	It's gone, Mr. Yordanov. Now we're going to alternate groups. For what, Mr. Ananiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u58	I was personally affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u59	Personal explanation, please. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, colleagues, I don't think you can object to being offended directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! In fact, Mr. Yordanov took the liberty of calling me a second time yesterday, I think, a political nomad... [[(National Representative Toshko Yordanov:]] I've only been to one party before Volt, but, Mr. Yordanov, I remember when you came to the Reformation Block and wanted your son to be an intern. And we took him, he was an intern with us... [[(Noise, applause and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u61	Mr. Ananiev, let's focus on your personal insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u62	That's not the point. When someone has principles, when he sits behind these principles and stands up for them, when he doesn't betray the people who have believed him since the first day he deals with politics, and those same people continue to support him, then it means that he is upright and holds his principles. Unfortunately, the same can be said of you, who are currently with GERB and DPS created a new coalition, and all your voters see it. The question is what will you explain to them on the ground when you see them, that is the bigger question, but in the Chamber is visible, this coalition is visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants a personal explanation.]] A personal explanation of a personal explanation?! I suggest in the manner of keeping you take, but really...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for that. Do not let such, how to say, personal explanations in another direction, because, yes, my son was XII grade, would apply to university. He has now graduated from International Relations and is normal to be an intern. Then we supported, as I recall, as citizens Ms. Meglena Kuneva made a mistake, as a matter of fact it turned out, but I see nothing wrong with a student being an intern. After all, he was an intern there and not in GERB, in DPS or BSP. And I don't understand what this has to do with you being a political nomad and a political florist...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u65	Mr. Yordanov! Mr. Yordanov, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u66	...and a political highway? I don't understand what the connection is. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u67	I'll take your word for it! It's a good thing we cleared that up. If it ever comes to your son again, I'm going to interrupt the MP who commented on it. There are several speeches recorded. We'll take turns in groups. First Mr. Bojankov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Historically, it is not because it is Nikola Minchev, not because of his resignation, but because we know that we are talking about much more. We are not talking about this National Assembly, we are talking about the next elections, we are talking about the coming decades of Bulgaria. [[(Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Noise and shouts by GERB-SDS: "Eee!"]] Today in this hall, the majority is gathered from the clear mandate to remove GERB, and more importantly to remove the GERB model from the management of Bulgaria. This is the clear mandate we have received, and today is extremely sad for this struggle. Not because Nikola Minchev was a wonderful chairman, he was a wonderful chairman. Since the more experienced, not to say the older, but the more experienced colleagues in this room have seen and been through a lot. This hall is led by Tsetska Tsacheva, it is led by Tsveta Karayancheva, we have all experienced the shameful abbreviation of the CCP, we have seen many. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Nikola Minchev was a bright ray of hope for the return of normality and today can be perceived without hyperbola, such as kidnapping against normality. And because there is much talk of betrayal, this word began to devolve, as many of us deal irrationally with the Bulgarian language and in the morning with the coffee say: "This is a traitor, he is a traitor, on non-existent topics, on non-real cases such as Macedonia, on topics that do not stand on the agenda. I am careful how I handle the Bulgarian language and will tell you right now what betrayal is. It is betrayal to hand over the hopes of tens of thousands of protesters to tens of thousands of young people who fought for their future, who fought for normality. It is betrayal to send you to the National Assembly with the clear mandate to remove GERB, and the GERB model out of power and you three times to scratch out every opportunity and hope to remove them from power [[Applause from..We continue the Change..... BSP for Bulgaria...............................................................................................]] , including scratching itself. It is important what follows from now on, because Nikola Minchev's resignation is not the end of this struggle, it is the beginning of this fight because this majority has been sent here and despite the replacement because we are talking about the actual replacement of the vote of the Bulgarian citizen, this struggle will continue and we will lead it in this room, we will lead it in the squares because the free man is called to fight the injustice where he sees it. [[Applause from..We continue the Change..... BSP for Bulgaria...............................................................................................]] [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bojankov, my line is for you. You are very good with the Bulgarian language, but to the definition of the word "betrayal" and for what they did and betrayed their own voters, you forgot to say one "do it for money, for a boss of BNB and for a constitutional judge. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u71	Are there any other lines? For a line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, ministers from the government! I'm making a line because before that I couldn't make a line for Mr. Yordanov, which I really respect. We were very offended when the word "mafia" was mentioned. When I mentioned the name of the largest oligarch among the oligarchs in Bulgaria from this tribune, my colleagues from DPS applauded. [[Applause from DPS.]] And now I'm asking you: will you applaud when I tell you that there is a person in this room whose daughter has recently been fired, because as a judge of the register she has not written off the companies and continues to siphon money out of the European Union?! Will you applaud, colleagues of the DPS, when I tell you that this man has something to do with what happened to Captain Andreevo?! Today we must cut a young man who is the age of my son. Dear President, because you are still chairman, applause was the greatest reward for what you have done. Courage, life is ahead of you! Good luck to you with all my heart! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u73	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a third line? Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Bozhankov, I join everything you have said, but why do you say that you were a wonderful chairman? Mr. Minchev is a wonderful President of the National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u75	Mr. Bojankov, would you like to join us for a coat or not? You don't want to. Next up is Mr. Balabanov. Here you are, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the beginning of this coalition, which was generally complicated, there were two things that motivated her with the idea that she would look in one direction to face the model for which we filled the squares a year and a half ago. [[(Replies from]] Two hundred and fifty days each night we were at these protests. I'm gonna have to ask for some peace in the room. It'll all become clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u77	Just wait a minute. After all, your words cause a reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u78	So the two things we created this coalition for were integrity and zero tolerance for corruption. Because since yesterday, and generally in the public space of the instrument weighs two things - the suggestion, lies, bribes and traitors on one side. Because, Mr. Chairman, even the most representative building in the country has ordered the final order for traitors there to stand in the corner. They have chosen their own personal decision and I will strive not to comment on them anymore because they are not important, but important are the facts, because the facts stand on the other side. Colleagues, always in the public domain, whatever they do.There is such a people. Immediately there is an attack.. They are with GERB and DPS, whatever we say.. They are with GERB and DPS. Therefore, to eliminate all definitions and to look at the facts, we face the model, which for 12 years managed the state, were promised reforms, a coalition agreement, the prime minister had sworn that every day he would reveal a corruption scheme by the previous rulers. [[Heckling]] The Law on the Commission for Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegally Acquired Property, Mr. Prime Minister. You give me reason to tell you what the truth was, because I know it, and for that reason I sleep peacefully. What are the facts? No reform, honourable Members in this House, here I am not personalizing the Change, here I am speaking to the coalition partners with whom I have had the opportunity to be present. This is what has happened to me lately, to attend the coalition councils. I speak to you as a Bulgarian citizen, not as a representative of political formation. Not a single reform in the Ministry of Interior, posts, regulators offered by the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance during coalition councils, note. [[Heckling]] I'm giving you examples. Listen to me. All regulators in the state throw them at us at parties without discussing specific names. Is it moral, is there an example of tolerance in this way? We'll throw your regulators in the country at parties, and then we'll comment on the names. I respect Mr. Gurov. I respect him as a man in the towers of this hall, but Mr. Gurov was pulled out of a fire for a BSP candidate, for a candidate of the Bulgarian National Bank, I apologize. I'm sorry, I make mistakes. Mrs. Ninova, forgive me. Since the Minister of Finance's ambition and desire was to master this post, we are talking about BNB. What are the facts? A whole ministry has been blocked, honored because of the efforts of the Minister of Finance to lead and control the Bulgarian National Bank through a person who is the chairman of a parliamentary group, is he a financier, is he a future Minister of Interior, time will show, but whenever we say something, there is corruption and money against us. It was about money. Yesterday you are going to a briefing on the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works because it is in the public domain that 2.5 billion have been stolen and served by the Mafia. Well, they were at your suggestion, Mr. Prime Minister. This money has passed by a decision of the National Assembly. Commission for Countering Corruption and Detaining Illegally Acquired Property. You, I take the liberty of looking into each other's eyes...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u79	Mr. Balabanov, just wait a second. Just because the ministers are here does not mean that you should talk to them, because you will provoke a reaction from them, and then the House will be angry that in this procedure I give the floor to ministers. So please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u80	Thanks for the remark, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u81	...to focus on the arguments for Mr. Minchev's removal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u82	Thanks for the remark. I won't look him in the eye. The Prime Minister doesn't deserve it. [[Noise and lines.]] With regard to the Anti-Corruption Commission and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property, there are suggestions, Mr. Chairman. [[Voices by "We are continuing the Change": "Mafia, Mafia, Mafia! "]] Regarding the Anti-Corruption Commission and the forfeiture of the illegally acquired property, honourable Members, the following was said: "Let's put Boyko Rashkov in place. Let's get him out of the Ministry of Interior. He didn't do the right
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u83	Mr. Balabanov, wait a minute, we are now discussing not the work of the government, but the Project for a solution with concrete grounds for Mr. Minchev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u84	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u85	Please focus on this and not on the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, where Mr. Minchev has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u86	We will focus, but since you set the tone of the speeches, and in the previous speeches there was nothing on the subject and on the resignation...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u87	There was. At least they mentioned Mr. Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u88	I'll finish with the motive for my resignation. Give me that chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u89	Okay. Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u90	Because we need to comment on the facts as they are and put facts against suggestion. That's what I'm trying to do right now. So Boyko Rashkov will be the proposal for the Commission to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property, according to the Prime Minister, because he has not carried out the reform in the Ministry of Interior, which shows that this government is not dealing with the fight against the GERB model. That's what I'm trying to explain. [[(Replies from]] Colleagues from "We continue the Change" and you accuse us that we have a new majority and we are part of GERB and DPS, and in your parliamentary group there are people from GERB. The Deputy Prime Minister from your group was an advisor in the office of GERB.. Mrs. Konstantinova, there she is. Take a good look at her.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u91	Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u92	So, facts against suggestion, that's what I'm trying to clarify. But let's focus on Mr. Minchev's resignation proposal. I, Mr. Minchev, also respect him as a person, but since he holds the most representative position in the country, the President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, must be independent. Yesterday, unfortunately, all of Bulgaria... Thanks to Mr. Minchev's proposal, we continue the Change, which practically committed a public crime, would have brought the Minister of Foreign Affairs under all the strictness of the law. Because, honourable Members, there are rules in this Chamber, there is a law that we must abide by. What happened yesterday and what motivates us to resign Mr. Minchev? [[(Replies from]] In fact, it happened that Mr. Minchev broke the law of this House as he tried in a possible way to hide the face of a national traitor who stands before you all at this time. The facts that Mrs. Genchovska was about to present in a closed session are with secret graffiti which were inserted into the National Assembly's Office and each MP will get acquainted with them to make sure that in fact three months a person has tried to sell the Bulgarian history. That's the truth. Mr. Minchev tried to break the law only to bring Mrs. Genchevska into a crime. Since you know the Rules, if you had revealed these documents to the public, it would have had its consequences in law, because, my dear, there are laws in this country that we must learn to abide by. For this reason, since Mr. Minchev demonstrated directly and indirectly yesterday that he is dependent on orders through the Council of Ministers, there is nothing more logical than to discuss and accept his resignation today. Notice, this is at the suggestion of.. There is such a people.................... there is such a people........ Everyone in this room... [[Voices by "We continue the Change": "Bravo!"]] Yes, yes, everyone in this room is free to support such an offer, and that is why we are gathered here today to uphold the law. From now on, what's the truth? This model of GERB, which we had faced, cannot be refuted because those standing next to you, Mr. President, do not have the desire to do so talk about reforms, corruption and trust, but after you wanted to sell the Bulgarian national interest, what trust are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u93	Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u94	So we'll go, Mr. Chairman, by law, as we've always done. Morality, conscience, honor and dignity allow me, Mr. Chairman, to sleep peacefully at night, as I neither roam quarters nor apartments... [[noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u95	Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u96	...nor do I offer bribes, nor do I offer pennies. [[(Replies from]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u97	Now, I just want to read one text of our Rules before I give the floor, because you all very much want to follow the Rules when it is somehow in your favor. I very much ask that we carefully judge each other's expressions and words! I understand that if I now remove a representative from the sitting, at least there will be a howl, but listen to what the Rules say: Art. Art. 59 (1) 159. (1) The President may suspend for more than one meeting, but not more than three meetings, a Member of the National Assembly, who shall: 1. insults the National Assembly, the members of the Council of Ministers, the President or Vice-President of the Republic or other bodies of government; Now, you can explain and argue what an insult is, but when here from yesterday every second sentence to one of the ministers and to the Prime Minister that he is a national traitor and other such expressions... [[Descriptions from DPS: "Instruction. "]] Wait, no suggestion. More than once, and now, in this statement, this expression has been used. Please, when we argue, let us not insult ourselves or the National Assembly or the ministers or the state authorities. It is not for a reason that this text is in our Rules. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Balabanov, it appears that you do not know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly. Mr. Minchev did the will of the National Assembly yesterday, and it is to have an open session where all Bulgarian citizens can see the truth. Instead of talking nonsense from the parliamentary tribune, you can use the time to go to Pazardzhik and meet your voters, as I am from there and your colleagues from IHN told me that you have not been there once after the elections. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Second line, here you go, Mr. Turtle.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Balabanov, let's explain one more time what happened yesterday. You or your parliamentary group, or the person who wants to become a constitutional judge, have submitted an absolutely incompetently written request for a closed session without justification. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] What you have tried to do with the closed session is to shut your Minister's mouth. Because what the Chamber has decided, this problem to be dealt with openly in front of all the cameras, to be broadcast on Channel 1 showed the following: you have no reason to bring insinuations about a problem with Macedonia and your minister said it very clearly: the Prime Minister has not conducted a separate policy on the topic...........................the topic....Macedonia...................the foreign ministry, which is led by Mrs. Gencovska. [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] So please, a lie repeated a hundred times from this tribune in your case will not be true. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u101	Third line, Mr. Petkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Mr. Balabanov, better in the last row with a clear conscience than the first with a guilty conscience. And nobody bought me, I'm disappointed for free. [[(We are continuing the Change.) Yes, Bulgaria.)]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Mr. Balabanov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the order of the numbers. Regarding the lines of Mr. Kulenski and Mr. Kosturkov. Colleagues, it is absolutely not true what you said because there are rules for the work of this National Assembly and yesterday Mr. Minchev violated them. You know very well, because you are MPs and you have read these rules that in order for Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska to read to you at a closed session with a secret griff, this should happen at a closed session or at a closed hearing. The item on the agenda yesterday was adopted in two votes, namely to be closed. [[Replys: "This is not true! "]] Mr. Minchev... [[Noise and lines.]] How is that not true? Well, how is that not true? The reporters were watching. They were asked to take their cameras and phones off the sidelines so that we could hold a closed hearing. That's the truth, and it was the mine of two votes. It's the truth! Then Mr. Minchev evidently realized that he would have to make some strings to save you from the ugly truth and tried to bring Teodora Genchovska into violation of the Law. That's the truth. Mr. Petkov, how can I comment on this? Mr. Petkov, since I know you, you also know me well, I have never had absolutely nothing wrong with you as an attitude and as colleagues. Sometimes, Mr. Petkov, the three devils you face are the following: fame, money and power. Visiblely your psyche does not endure, it is your personal choice and remember, Mr. Petkov, one very important thing: traitors die alone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u105	First, in the manner of conduct. Wait a minute, Mr. Svilensky. First it was Mr. Yordanov, then Mr. Petrov for procedure and then Mr. Svilenski. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. Then we have a request from a minister to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. I guess, I mean, I'm sure you're aware of your responsibility today in this meeting, because you said you wouldn't evict anyone because you know how it's gonna affect, even though you said there would be a howl. But, Mr. Chairman, you have allowed yourself to threaten MPs that you are going to evict them at such an important time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u107	It's a warning, it's not a threat!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u108	It's a threat! It's a threat to watch their mouths. I'm going to ask you to approach me responsibly and to assume that this has become emotional and not allow yourself to expel any representative from this House. [[Replys:? Breaks the rules of procedure?]] because you can directly influence the end result and you know it very well. I understand that you are in a parliamentary group that is a partner of the "We are continuing the Change" group, but in this case you need to be objective. [[(a line from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: Who are you a partner of?]] And if you tell Mr. Chenchev to keep his mouth shut and keep his mouth shut, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u109	Mr. Yordanov, I still have to answer. You're absolutely right that eviction of a MP would affect the outcome, and that's why I said I wouldn't do it. But I didn't threaten, I just read a text from the Rules, which I think you voted yourself, so let's take it into consideration. Second procedure, Mr. Petrov, come in. Then Mr. Svilensky. Many procedures have happened, but it is true, the Rules allow it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u110	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. So far, I believe the debate has degenerated. The debate has been reduced. You've reduced yourself to interpersonal insults. The focus of the debate has shifted substantially, at least in my opinion, to the upcoming vote of mistrust. The debate, unfortunately, can no longer be held back in a normal management. I don't blame you, Lord Chairman, but we've heard a lot of interpersonal attacks that I don't think belong here. We have heard the involvement of family ties, which I do not think is where they belong, which is why I believe that this debate, if it continues, unfortunately, will do nothing to preserve even this level of parliamentaryism that we have at the moment. None of us will gain anything, Mr. Chairman, if this debate continues, because his subject has already been requested. He won't change, he won't move and go back to the subject for which he was initiated. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I suggest that we put an end to this debate and move on to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u111	Here I have to say that there is no way to end the debate, but we can reduce the speeches and procedures if we want to. The debate must continue. But what we can do is stick to his main theme, as you are right that we have strayed quite a bit, but as we can see, things are related But we're moving on. Mr. Svilensky? You're giving up. Mr. Popov? You're for speaking. Okay, there's time for that. You're welcome for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I'm making a request to you. Never again than this tribune to allow you to be threatened in this ridiculous way by the 90s with the roots of the 90s, long gone out of fashion, but the people who do it still don't realize it. They'll realize it! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. I personally didn't feel threatened, but it's not easy to intimidate me, so that's okay. Minister Vassilev wants the floor. I, for the sake of this, do not ask questions and procedures only want to read, however, I think it is important that from time to time we remind ourselves of the Rules of Procedure. 59, para. 1: The members of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. At their request, they shall be heard with priority. The President of the National Assembly may determine the time during which the members of the Council of Ministers speak on a particular matter. Mr. Vasilev, come in, I give you my word, and maybe five minutes would be enough to say what you have to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For you today is the beginning of a civilizational choice. The choice in general, honourable Bulgarians, is the choice between the long-hidden evil in which I have been involved for two years without knowing this and the good. I am not a traitor, my colleagues are not traitors! I created such a people. I created structures of the party. I fought. I was Slavi Trifonov's most jealous defender. I was the biggest critic of Kiril Petkov, but I cannot prefer my leader to the Bulgarian people! When there is such a people going to GERB and to DPS in relation to everything that is happening in the country, for the first time in 12 years the state is about to recover stolen businesses. Capuculet, Mr. Slavi Trifonov, but you obviously don't know that. For the first time in 12 years in my face as Minister of Sport, the state began to reveal irregularities. So, I was the only minister of this kind of people in this government, I didn't know the other three. Only Teodora Genchovska was our expert in the topic "Defense." Yeah, that's right. Today I look at my colleagues Andy, Iva Miteva, Professor Chorbanov, Zlatomira and see in their faces a huge shame. Believe me, they don't want to stand next to Mr. Tosko Yordanov right now. [[We are continuing the Change and the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you notice that only Mr. Yordanov and Mr. Balabanov are speaking? The others just have nothing to say because they're ashamed. Mrs. Miteva, I've worked with you for two years.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u115	Mr. Vassilev, you are entering into a dialogue with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u116	I'm not going in. I call on you, do not be a traitor, do not take the post of Chairman, because you will be the most hated person in Bulgaria. There is such a people that betrayed the Bulgarian people. I will never participate in this National Assembly again. Don't be an accessory to this. I congratulate the five colleagues who left, they proved to be men! Don't support the coup d'état in the country! Our country is more important than anything. Thank you. [[We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u117	I will now give the floor to Mr. Balabanov, first of all, in the manner of conduct, because there is no other way. Mr. Chorbanov, you? All right, order a personal explanation as you felt affected. The rules do not specify whether by a Minister or by a Member of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I never thought I'd go out on the National Assembly stand to make such an explanation and such a declaration. I am the proud founder of a party. There is such a people. Both times in front of my voters. The people who voted for me, I must say that our participation in this coalition cost us a great deal. We have lost much of our supporters precisely because of our participation in the coalition, in trying to do something useful for the state. I sincerely hope that this will change quickly and that there will be people who will have the will and the desire to change all of this in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Now, Mr. Balabanov, do you want the word in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u120	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, as you yourself said just now that you would not allow this tribune of insults, qualifications and so on. Now what did you do? You gave this tribune an opportunity to stand up for a man for whom there is evidence, a man who threatens MPs all saw it, fellow journalists saw it, a man who will send in this room people to force a MP to leave parliament. Mr. Chairman, please focus on the proper conduct of this meeting. And the kind of people you're giving the floor to are gonna be in the D.A.'s office any minute now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. I explained. I don't think I need to say any more. There is such a people that you have about 40 seconds in total. The procedures go through time, so judge me, Mr. Yordanov. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u122	Yeah, personal explanation, 40 seconds. First of all, really follow what you said. Second, colleagues from "There is such a people" let's stop talking not just because there is no time, but because it turns around at another fair. They're definitely shifting the subject from the chairman. And third, the person who left the gym is a liar. One day on Sunday, I had a meeting with him before he left our party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u123	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u124	Yeah, okay. So, he's a guy who looks into another person's eyes, says something and does the exact opposite. I apologize for the word liar, you find a synonym for what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u125	Okay. I think we're done with this procedure, too. For speech I give the floor to Miroslav Ivanov if he is in the hall. If not, Vasil Stefanov has made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minchev, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, colleagues! I will try briefly to tell you why this debate is disgraceful to me. Let's start with the formal grounds for depositing the decision for the early release of Mr. Nikola Minchev. On 10 June, a request was made to hold an extraordinary closed meeting to provide information and not documents on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union. This legal basis in the request, colleagues, is art. 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 44, para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Remember this The request does not specify an agenda. The importers have not done this, but they are writing in their reasons for resignation, and I quote: "The request for a pre-declared agenda in this case cannot be used as an excuse for not calling an extraordinary meeting. " End of quote. For fellow non-jurists to clarify. According to the imperative, the imperative means mandatory, rule of art. 40, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure made the request under art. 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are obliged to indicate an agenda, they are required in each particular case. Two. The President has allowed the Chamber to decide whether or not to close the sitting. The Chamber with more than 121 votes decided to remain open, as suggested. According to the importers of the resignation, the President should not have put this to the vote at all because, according to art. 44, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be put to the vote. Honourable Members, here I return you to the legal basis in this request for an extraordinary meeting................................................................................................... 44, para. 1, t. 1. Al. 3 of the same article clearly states that in the case of a proposed closed session under para. 1, t. 1 The President shall put the motion to close the meeting to a vote. The chairman put him through, and the court decided. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Until now, no one had objected, no procedures, no screaming until you saw that the meeting remained open so that all Bulgarian citizens could see and hear the truth about the poorly formed scenario. Three. The last basis in the request for the President's resignation may be some kind of joke, because every Friday, every possible Friday, parliamentary control has been carried out, and for the last six months I dare say, this House has seen the Prime Minister more times than in the last 12 years. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Now, fellow Members, I would like to give you the real reasons for the request of Mr. Nikola Minchev's resignation: the restored control of the Border and Departure of the Border and Departure of the Mafia from the second busiest land border in the world; the incorporation of the Director of BABH Professor Hristo Daskalov; the revelations of the Road Infrastructure Agency for the grand theft of billions drained, for example, through a five-metre pipe of 1 million. BGN, 1 million water pipe; the interruption of Bulgaria's gas dependence on Gazprom and attempts to have a real diversification, not 95% imports of Russian gas at averages for Europe 40%. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And now, honourable importers, I would like to ask you about morality. Is it moral to ask for the resignation of a man who does his job well?! Is it moral to ask for the resignation of a man you were praising yesterday from this very tribune?! Is it moral to protect the mob?! Is it moral to neglect over 2 million Bulgarian pensioners and whether they will receive an increase in their pensions equal to the value of your dinner in an expensive restaurant?! The questions are rhetorical, and this debate is disgraceful. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mr. Balabanov, you have 30 seconds. Would you like a line? Here you go. Milen Mateev for the second line and Mr. Nenkov for the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The truth doesn't fit in 30 seconds, the truth is based on the facts as they are. The money for the pipes in relation to the MRRB and all that the Prime Minister gave yesterday is on his suggestion. This has passed through the National Assembly. With regard to Mr. Minchev and compliance with the law there were yesterday two votes for closed session, and both were accepted, after which Mr. Minchev began to systematically violate the Rules, suggesting that the meeting should be opened in front of the whole of Bulgaria in order to bring Teodora Genchevska into crime. [[Noise and lines.]] Those are the facts! The truth hurts and it's already out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u129	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Milen Mateev for the second line you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u130	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the Cabinet! Dear Mr. Stefanov, it is clear to me that the legal arguments here are irrelevant and they are not part of the motives in the draft for the resignation of Mr. Minchev. They have nothing to do with the formally applied motives, which are also clear that they were written quickly and on their knees, and it is clear that in the parliamentary group of "There are no decent lawyers left after Mr. Ivo Atanasov left this group. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I also know that for the final result of the vote, the legal arguments will have no meaning, but let me supplement you and refer to some of them. Let us see in the reasons for these cases of systematic overshadowing of rights or systematic failure to comply with the obligations required by the law and those referred to by the importers. Let us be clear, first of all, that systemically according to the theory of law means three or more cases of violations. That's why the importers sucked out of their fingers exactly three. On the first charge, we understand that the President has violated art. 78, p. 2 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the Constitution. 40, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, having not called an extraordinary meeting at the request of one fifth Members of the National Assembly within the prescribed seven-day period. This request was submitted on June 10th, the resignation request on June 15th and the deadline expires tomorrow. [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and shouts: "Bravo!"]] I don't see what I have to say at this request. Clearly, it is absolutely unfounded. On top of that, the hearing was held yesterday. According to point two, it is described in the reasoning that this notorious yesterday's hearing was to be passed into a closed hearing pursuant to art. 44, para. 4. All of us who attended the hearing very clearly heard how the President of the National Assembly asked the minister of hearings whether documents containing the Griff would be disclosed and we did not get a clear answer to this question. Therefore, no para was applied. 4. Regarding the case described in point three of the reasons, I must admit that, in my view, the respected President of the National Assembly really made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u131	The weather, Mr. Matteev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u132	But his mistake is not the one described in the motives, Mr. Stefanov, but his mistake was that he allowed a bill to be discussed in the Chamber with which the importers from "There is such a people" tried to run over art. 87, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u133	The weather, Mr. Matteev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u134	...and this bill was absolutely unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u135	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor for the third line. Either way, this time has been reported from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. If you exceed, I will let you finish your speech accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna sneak into the two minutes I've been given by the book. Mr. Stefanov, the only thing I agree with in your speech was that physically Prime Minister Kiril Petkov was present. He has also been present in this room before, but in my memories, this has not contributed much to the debate. On the contrary, he rarely answers the questions asked by the Members of the National Assembly. He usually comes around to say his backdrops, and that's the end of it. So not always the physical presence improves the debate or society learns more as information. The more disturbing, however, is another. Yes, the Prime Minister is here and the media has leaked that he is present today at this meeting in support of Mr. Minchev. But why has it really failed.... one kind in this way failed his trip to Azerbaijan. I have to tell you that this is actually a convenient motive for his support to Mr. Minchev precisely with the inability...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u137	That's not Stefanov's line!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u138	...the Bulgarian government and in particular the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u139	Get a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u140	...to fulfill its grand promise that Bulgaria will receive cheaper gas than the one GERB negotiated years ago! It's the truth! And the worse truth is that somehow the topic of gas is ignored precisely in order to keep your power positions and nothing else!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u141	Mr. Nenkov, however, this is about speaking on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u142	This is political and stately weakness! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u143	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Stefanov, come in for the back. [[(Replication by BSP for Bulgaria]] Then will I give the floor of procedure to you, Professor Mihailov, or someone in your group would like to?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, member of the Energy Commission, gas is male, natural gas. [[Laughter]] The other thing I would like to say is the last thing I finished my speech on this debate is disgraceful. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u145	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Professor Mikhailov, please come in for a procedure. Mr. Kyosev, are you also for procedure? For a statement, you're on the record.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u146	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you very much not to allow people who want to practice rhetoric. There are rhetoric schools, there you go, you pay, you start, you stand on a stand, they tell you how to behave, what you have to talk about on a subject. Do not leave here to jump from the theme of resignation to the visit of the Prime Minister in Azerbaijan this is such fantastic nonsense, many times have some people allowed it! It has nothing to do with the subject, but we're wasting time in the entire parliamentary room! Here the media are watching us, people are wondering what happened in the morning. We have to decide the budget, and we have been dealing for the third hour with someone's memories of their son, about how someone else is sleeping and so on! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u147	Thank you for this procedure, Professor. Mr. Svilensky, I hope you'll get the debate back on track. Please come in for a statement. Shall we call the Quaestors, Mr. Svilensky? [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Quaestors can take the seats closer, and Mr. Manev, if you could hold him, would be good.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u149	No comment, Mr. Svilensky. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! It is a fact that for an hour and a half now, two by point: An early release of the President of the National Assembly we are talking about quite different things that have nothing to do with the President of the National Assembly; nor with the violations that you are possibly accusing him of doing; nor with the reasons that you have tried to write; nor with the draft decision. I only think Mr. Mateev came to the point a little bit. Yesterday I was surprised when I found out that 120 MPs outside the ruling coalition had signed a request for Mr. Minchev's resignation, when of these 120 at least 10 I could mention them by name, but I will not do it, they said how honest, dialogueal, fair and good President of the National Assembly was Mr. Minchev! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, if there was anyone in this Chamber who had criticism of the President, it was I who was the most, because at least he gave me the floor, he punished me most and mostly violated the Rules of Procedure, giving the floor to the opposition in unfair procedures, in the manner of conduct, in whatever way. And all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, From my humble eight-year experience in this House, I can tell you, honourable Members, that indeed this is the best President of the National Assembly during these eight years when I have been a Member of the National Assembly. [[(Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] There are MPs here with experience and they can say... we can name the Presidents of the National Assembly, we know who they were and what they were doing. And now we're not a courtroom, but because there are a lot of lawyers and you're talking: according to article one-who you are, point one-one of the Rules, let's see the motives. Three are the things Mr. Minchev is being blamed for. First of all, the basic rule of systemism and consistency in infringements. I did not understand how at 8:30 at the Conference of Presidents Mr. Minchev was the best President and at 9.10 he was already with 120 signatures collected as the person who violated successively, systematically, every day the Rules. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] However, it is a matter of conscience for everyone who will support or, accordingly, will not support this proposal. The first request for the extraordinary meeting which has not been convened. It became clear that there is no agenda. The importers themselves say that this was not a reason. And it was said in this Chamber that the deadline for this extraordinary meeting had not expired. You brought it in on Friday, and on Wednesday you want the chairman's resignation, because by tomorrow, he hasn't called an emergency meeting without an agenda until next Friday. And you want the resignation for this thing! I can't figure it out. Closed session let's talk with facts. Indeed, Mr. Balabanov speculates with the facts. Please, Mr. Chairman, remove the transcript from yesterday, while the discussion is under way, and read it to the MPs, to the media, to the guests, to the ministers! It has been clearly stated in the vote on the agenda that the item is voted on to be placed on the agenda and whether it will be closed or openly voted on further once it has entered the Programme. Take out this text of the person who led the meeting yesterday, I remember it very well. It was put to the vote, it was on the agenda. The next step was to vote whether it was closed or open! Under the regulations that we have all accepted and worked so long, it clearly states: when it is justified whether to close the meeting, the cameras are excluded, the media leave and whoever wants a closed session stands on this stand and explains why it wants the meeting closed. That's what you did! You went out on this stage and explained that you knew some secrets that Mrs. Genchevska would tell and about which the meeting should be closed. There is a vote from the Chamber twice, not once, twice. We just didn't do it three times like we used to. [[Reply.]] Twice. 126 to 100 votes, because someone did not know exactly the voices. 126 were to be found and 100 MPs were to be closed. Of these 126 votes, 11 were at rebirth. Colleagues of ARGUMENT wanted the meeting to be opened and so voted! And within an hour, they signed for the chairman's resignation because he didn't allow a closed session! Tell me, colleagues, what's that got to do with anything?! You vote for an open session, and in an hour, you sign and say, "I want your resignation because you opened the session!" I'll leave it to you and those who are watching us eventually to draw their second conclusion as to whether there is a reason. Then Mrs. Genchovska had to say something in secret! Yes, there is this option, but this is now another sitting on another occasion! Genchovska's hearing is happening yesterday! She said what she had to say. We got to the questions and you remembered there was something secret. Bring it in, there's a line! But you want something else. And the third argument, which is already the most striking: why was it not included in the Programme The Budget Bill submitted by Eva Miteva?! The constitutionalist, the lawyer, twice the President of the National Assembly, 15 years or more an employee of the National Assembly's Legal Directorate shall submit a draft budget amendment bill! Are there any MPs with longer experience in plenary who have ever, in their lifetime, voted in this House, a law tabled by a Member of Parliament concerning the State Budget Act?! Yes, there was, for the National Health Insurance Fund. Yeah, there was, for state social security. But there wasn't one for the state budget! But Mrs. Eva Miteva decided that she could submit a budget bill! And because he has not been examined in plenary, the resignation of Mr. Minchev is required! Well, fellow Members, of all the motives I've said, is there anything that's true, anything you can prove to me? No. And we come to the truth. There is no motive, an hour and a half we're talking about highways, Captain Andreevo, broken businesses, money, and Nikola Minchev's resignation is required?! What does Nikola Minchev have to do with Captain Andreevo, for example? Or what does Nikola Minchev have to do with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works? But you want his resignation for that. Today, ladies and gentlemen of parliament and honourable ministers, we are all talking great things here today, June 16th, is the day of the Bulgarian lied voters! Today, a large part of the Bulgarian voters, when they see the news tonight, will feel the most deceived in their lives because they have never expected those who were in the squares who protested, who were on strike, that, for example, the AGE will sign together with the DPS in a signature to overthrow the President of the National Assembly. They never expected your constituents, Mr. Balabanov, who in this tribune were talking about Jeepko Bibitko. Not me, your parliamentary group chairman was talking about Gypko Bibitko now how do you explain that you, together under your signatures, are receiving the support of this parliamentary group? How many times do you have to meet your constituents first to understand that they do not want that they do not want to do coalition with GERB? But you can't, with you another coalition is impossible! DPS, ISN, GERB "This is the possible coalition!" [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the other coalition, for which we tried for six months to work in coalition councils, in coalition formats, you recorded them on paper, speculated and brought them out in the media! That's not coalition behavior. Colleagues, everyone, when entering a coalition, should put aside some of their own ambitions, should be dialogueal and, most importantly, honest and correct towards coalition partners! When they break up, keep them straight. Mr. Minchev, you have probably come out, you have the full support of our parliamentary group! Perhaps, God forbid, you will be replaced as President of the National Assembly, but you will remain President of this Forty-Seventh National Assembly! Thank you. [[Applause from the Council of Ministers We continue the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria, the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria and the members of the Council of Ministers, shouts: "Bravo!."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u151	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The Prime Minister wants the floor, and then I'll give the lines. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi. People's representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor for procedure.]] The ministers have priority, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Tsonev, you know very well that the first word is given to the ministers. This is how we have done it before, but the Prime Minister agreed to wait for the procedures to pass. So the first line is Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u152	Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't allow myself to outrun the Prime Minister, but we need to complete the lines procedure, and then there's an advantage over the next speaker. My line, Mr. Svilensky, is to you, of course. First of all, get to the point. The chronology yesterday. The whole chronology until the debate began is correct, but at the beginning of the debate asked Mrs. Genchovska, the host asked her: "Is there any documents....... and so on? She said, "I'm going to refer to documents with a griff. "Secretly. Then, Mr. Svilensky, I stood up and said:..and I will ask Mrs. Genchovska about the nature of these documents, so the debate will be about documents with Griff. And then we enter the hypothesis, and we reminded Mr. Minchev that we were entering the hypothesis of art. 44, para. 4 which states that the sitting is closed by item. 2, when discussing documents classified under the Protection Act... I said I would discuss such a document because it refers to such a document. At this moment Mr. Minchev should have said: "Coworkers, I am adjourning the meeting." So take it easy on the facts. And one more remark I'd like to make to you in the form of a line. I ask you very much not to talk about the DPS from this tribune when it comes to coalitions and positions, because I will remind you that the DPS is the only party that last year of three consecutive choices increased its support and did not participate in any coalition so we decided, unlike one other party, which at three consecutive elections reduced its support and finally participated in a coalition. [[Applause from DPS.]] That's what you decided. That's what the people decided. But you are to restrict us here and give us the right to participate and with whom, how and where, I ask you very much. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u153	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Dilov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilensky, I have three major disagreements with you. The first is a purely formal claim that the voters of the "There is such a people" have sent them here to avoid coalition with GERB, and I remember the party's chairman who said he would tattoo "Never in a coalition with BSP." Maybe he tattooed it somewhere, but you can't see it from his short TV statements. The second thing I want to tell you. And other decent men have been removed from this post, not in connection with their personalities: Stefan Savov, Ognian Gerdjikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u155	Dimitar Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u156	Glauchev, that's right. However, you do not seem to understand that this vote today and this vote today is not so burdened by formal reasons, but by the whole policy that has been the last six months in this House. [[(Noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria: ……]] Isn't this Mr. Svilenski, the first Bulgarian parliament in which the opposition does not have its own committee? Isn't it the first Bulgarian parliament? [[(Noise and lines from DPS:]] Isn't this the first Bulgarian parliament in which no temporary committee has done any work? Isn't this the first Bulgarian parliament to have had the worst legislative history since the new Bulgarian parliament existed since 1990? Isn't that enough to have this conversation? And yes, I agree with you that today's vote will also be an assessment of what we have done here all together and opposition and ruling, but the main fault is yours. Yours is the main fault of everything that's going on. Your atmosphere of complete nondialogy, of constant insults, condemnations. How many times have we been called Mafia here? Am I a mafia, Mr. Gurov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u158	I'm the mob, aren't I? All right, prove it! With what? That's the reason. You are now surprised that the AGE voted with us. Yes, you were able to do it ungatheringly. You did it! We didn't ask for an ARRANGEMENT to sign, we didn't go to offer them posts. [[Noise and lines.]] So whatever you're doing, you're doing to yourself. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. And a third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilenski, in your speech you are also talking about the formal motives for Mr. Minchev's resignation. I will not affect them, because they are a grotesque one, they have nothing to do with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. They are the transparent fig leaf of the real motives for Mr. Minchev's request for resignation. Here from the morning and yesterday there are three words in this parliament: mafia, betrayal, unprincipledness. In fact, these are the real motives, Mr. Svilensky, for the requested resignation: betrayal and unprincipledness.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u161	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u162	I ask my colleagues from the ITN and you, Mr. Svilenski, can you tell them this question, is betrayal in front of the people who voted for them, swearing before them, never again with GERB against the people, of this.Now with GERB again against the people. Is this betrayal? I think it's betrayal, at least for me. Unprincipledness. What is the principle of this new agreement between IHN and GERB? Here were some phrases that, you see, because when you face the GERB model you cannot fight, it seems that here the principle is better to embrace the GERB model. That's what you'll be staying with, unfortunately, in history, colleagues. You've twice thrown the country into chaos, now for the third time. That's what I wanted to do as a line. And I address these five colleagues who are currently independent. Dear colleagues, as the immortal said, the poet: The good ones in our country are considered crazy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u163	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For the back, Mr. Svilensky. After that, Prime Minister, I'll give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Tsonev! Well, we're on the same timeline. It can't be different because it's the chronology, only you interpret it differently from one moment on. It's like me now if I say I'm gonna say something in secret, and I'm asking for this meeting to be closed, we need to close it down right now, okay? That's what you say. There's clearly written:......................................................................................................... Yes, there will be, but it will be next session tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, indoors, cannot immediately. Why do you want, when Mrs. Genchevska comes, to ask her all about the secrets and the secrets on one day?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u165	That's exactly the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u166	No, no. The request is another hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Genchovska. It's not about memorable notes, it's not about secrets. It's nothing! The fact that someone knows is another matter. The fact that someone is informed is another matter! [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Who will you co-operate with, of course, Mr. Tsonev, that is your business. And BSP is the last party that will determine who to co-operate with. You know this better than any party in political life for 30 years. You always know when, with whom, even with us, I think it was one of your most successful governments, but that already appreciates voters. Mr. Dilov, you're very concerned about the I.N.N. voters. I expected something about GERB to say about the voters of GERB. It doesn't matter to you anymore, the important thing is to have support. But why do you care so much about the voters of? There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u167	You were concerned, we weren't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u168	I'm not concerned, I'm asking a question which, probably after these debates this week and the next, and the next, is going to be elections. Eventually. The voters need to know when they go to vote for Mr. Kostadinov, to know they'll get something else. When they go to vote for example, there is such a people, because I see Mr. Balabanov following me. I give the opportunity to use a personal explanation, to know that they will receive GERB and eventually support of DPS as they know. I mean, these things have to be clear because when you say that the irrecoverable has come together, you have gathered the irrecoverable. You have gathered the final colleagues who are on the right, with the final ones standing on the left. All those who were in the square gathered them to change the model of Borisov not to you, there are many honest and honest people from you, and you know it, and I have said it. The model Borisov imposed. This brought together and this made the unification, the impossible unification of left and right. Did Hristo Ivanov or General Atanasov ever think that he would sit at the same table with Cornelia Ninova? Oh, you think so? [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] However, the aim to change this mafia government, this policy 13 years of crushing the Bulgarians, this policy of smashing the state, had to be put an end to it and this end is done with unification. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] If you are currently seeing such a threat, join together, gather together, but it is important that the Bulgarians know what you are united against and what you are gathering against! Be honest with the Bulgarian voters!. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u169	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Prime Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For two hours I have been listening to this discussion and all the time I wonder why 120 MPs put the largest priority of the Republic of Bulgaria to be Mr. Minchev's change today? Is Mr. Minchev's resignation more important than electricity prices? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Is it more important than the pension levels? Did you prefer to spend two hours today as a more important topic than tax relief for young families? Have you decided that you don't need to accept at least one of the 22 laws that we need to learn...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u171	Where are the laws?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u172	... 12 billion from the Recovery Plan?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u173	Where are these laws?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u174	But you said it wasn't important. It's about Mr. Minchev's resignation. And Mr. Minchev is a very good, excellent professional and I've heard this from the mouth and from the people of GERB [[Replys from DPS: "We voted for it! "]] And yet you're putting this as priority number one. Then I asked myself, maybe there is another reason? Perhaps you are afraid that Mr. Minchev will lead this National Assembly to adopt laws such as the KKCONPI Act. Maybe you're afraid that Mr. Rashkov will be elected head of KKCONPI. Maybe you're afraid there's gonna be a judge who's gonna review the D.A.'s activities. Maybe there are other things no one says. And let me clarify them to both colleagues from GERB, and colleagues from DPS, and colleagues from IHN, and colleagues from ARC. For colleagues from GERB. If you think that with today's acceptance of Mr. Minchev's resignation you will disturb us as a government and we will deal with you there is no! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Here, let me officially say it. For the DPS colleagues. If you think that by accepting this resignation we will reduce the number of signals we will send to the European Prosecutor's Office and we will not repeat about Mr. Peevski that it belongs to Mr. Magnitsky and that this is one of the most corrupt people that the US government has announced in Bulgaria there is no! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] So let's be clear. There is such a people. There are honest people between you. There are people among you who have come up with another idea in this department. There are people among you who are aware of their historical role at this time, but we know the pressure you are putting them under right now, and this pressure is being put on by the leaders of this people. And the betrayal that the leaders of the "There is such a people" when today they pressed the button together with GERB and DPS will be obvious to the entire Bulgarian people. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And now I'm addressing my colleagues from rebirth. In your discussions, it is said that laws that are passed by the DPS should never be passed. You stand on Facebook your platform and talk about the Bulgarian beginning, Bulgarianism, patriotism, and today my question is to you here is a question, will you press the button to take Mr. Minchev's resignation together with the DPS? [[DPS lines: Why do you divide society?]] That's just... How do you explain that? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] How do you explain that? Which YouTube channel are you going to explain this to?! [[(Voices from DPS:]] And I am talking to the Bulgarian people now. This is the backstage we fight every day! Thank you. [[(Noise, lines and shouts ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u175	Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to correct the Prime Minister. Yes, it is not the most important topic the resignation of the President of the National Assembly. The most important issue is the resignation of the cabinet. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]] The most important topic for our voters who have sent us and we are opposition in this Parliament, legitimately sent by over 360 000 Bulgarian citizens, with whom we meet every weekend, is when you will bring down this cabinet, which disgraces Bulgaria and destroys the statehood of Bulgaria. We are not here to support your corrupt and incompetent government, but to bring it down, and we will bring it down. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u177	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Ananiev is ahead of you, Mr. Bikov. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, since a correction procedure has been carried out and I will take a correction procedure for Mr. Tsonev. The idea is to overthrow the government to continue the thefts in both the API and the border. [[Voices from DPS: "Woo! "]] People know that thing. Yes, this goes through the overthrow of the government, and the request of Nikola Minchev's resignation, which does not make you any honor, is just a parlama. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Bikov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Petkov, it was like Robespierre's parody in the Convention when he didn't know it was over, but he kept talking, and then they finally took him out to the guillotine. Thank God we live in other times, thank God we live in other times and thank God there is no revolution in Bulgaria. Mr. Chairman, please explain to the Prime Minister what the situation is in the country and in parliament. I am glad that he is here to see with his eyes that his government does not have a majority, and should know if he really is a democrat that democracy is governed by a majority. And today Mr. Minchev's resignation was requested not because Mr. Minchev was a bad speaker of parliament, but because, when...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u181	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u182	I didn't say anything, but because when the majority changes and when it disintegrates and does not exist, usually the first victim is the President of Parliament. In this sense, you as Prime Minister, who has failed to hold his majority, are guilty of the resignation of Nikola Minchev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And when you accuse us here, the opposition that we don't support you, do you understand the absurdity you're talking about and how ridiculously you're acting? Do you understand that you don't even know where you are? You expect us, the mob, to support you. As you say, the mob lost its coalition partner. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Who's the mob? Do you know who the Mafia is and what is the point of parliamentaryism at all? I regret to deviate from the procedure in the manner of conduct, but bear in mind that it was not in the overall procedure the speech of the Prime Minister, who is not entitled to speak on this point. It's okay that he did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u183	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u184	The question, and that concludes, is: stop this agony, because if you had resigned, as was right, when you realized that you had no majority, we would not be having this debate at the moment. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Unfortunately, I was unable to welcome our guests, students who are from Albania and study in Bulgarian higher education institutions. Unfortunately, they're out of the room. [[Applause.]] To speak, Mr. Ivo Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov, come in, you have the floor. Then Mr. Petar Kyosev. I'm also recording Mr. Karadaye. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u186	I'll be brief, even in the respectable address, because I only have a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u187	The map, please, just put it on, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u188	Dear attendees in the Chamber, yesterday I attended a tribunal, the Tribunal in the Bulgarian Parliament had a Penal Code, there were prosecutors, there were judges, and the sentence was delivered on the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. The Bulgarian Court of Justice, colleagues, does not decide whether or not you are one. And two employees of Slavi Trifonov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The I.N.N. showed, I say, we showed twice that we can't build, we can't create. We showed it in the first two parliaments. Now we've shown that we can destroy. This is indicative of this party. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] That's why I'm not in it. When we were in the squares, we could see the tears in people's eyes. When we went around during three campaigns, we said we would break the vicious model of the management of GERB and its courtiers. Do you remember the tears in these people's eyes? You, colleagues, have now become part of this vicious model. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] At one point, the masks fall in another direction. There is such a people that the government has broken down. The case of Northern Macedonia broke. I explained why. Because such a case never existed. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We are consistent, clear and firm in our positions. Whether it is a national traitor to decide the Bulgarian court, but the case with Northern Macedonia does not exist. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And the second motive for leaving the government from the ICN is the lack of money. Do you know what money is missing? The money that must be directed by the masters of IHN in certain directions to benefit these companies. That money's missing. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Colleagues from ICN, I want to tell you this: in the coming week you are facing crucial decisions. Destinyful decisions which, if you listen to Toshko Yordanov, you will be ashamed not of those people with tears in their eyes who sent us to this parliament to break, scratch, and remove this model. You will remain in history as traitors of democracy, as traitors of Bulgaria. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And in order to explain to you and to drop another prop of two of the employees of Slavi Trifonov and their masters, and to understand to make it clear why Ivo Atanasov was not and will never sell a cause and battle in which he went, I will tell you this. The accusations that we have been bought by the Prime Minister of Bulgaria half, one or two million that we have been promised positions are not true. These are the pillars of this employee who has always been an ordinary employee of Slavi Trifonov's, and now he thought he was the ruler of the rings. It's not, guys. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] It's not, and I'll explain why. [[(Applause and cheering by]] And I'll explain why. [[National Representative Stanislav Balabanov wants the floor.]] I'm being blamed by these people...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u189	Mr. Balabanov, take your place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u190	...that I'm a traitor, that I've sold out for positions or certain amounts of money. Yesterday two colleagues from the parliamentary group, I met with them, came to me first, the secretary of the party Victoria Vasileva. I am honest and honest and I will say these things: "Toshko Yordanov sent me to you and said if you want to come back. " The next one was colleague Momchil Ivanov. Ivo, Toshko said if you want to come back. [[(Applause and cheering by.. Continue The Change:.....................................................................................................]] Colleagues, Toshko Yordanov will turn you into national traitors. The traitors will be you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Traitors are not the honest, decent and brave people..... the five of us who left this party. [[(Applause and cheering by]] You'll be ashamed, and this stain will weigh on you for the rest of your life. [[(Applause and cheering by]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u191	Colleagues, for lines. Mr. Turtle.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u192	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u193	There is such a people, you have no time. The personal explanation is included.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u194	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers! Mr. Atanasov, my line is for you. My point is that you have shown how this debate today is not about the qualities of the professional and personal of Nikola Minchev, but how this debate is about two main things - who in this room is a national traitor, who in this room is ranked next to GERB, DPS and part of the ITN that have sold themselves, and who in this room has the dignity to point out the President Nikola Minchev and to say he is a worthy person. Today's debate is an intelligence test of every MP here and is an intelligence test of every voter, of every group in this room. I know that the voters of GERB and DPS are used to such numbers. I know they're used to seeing the dirt that's being done by their groups. Colleagues from other groups, colleagues, I appeal to you. Think of your dignity and pass this IQ test. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u195	Thank you, Mr. Turtle. Before we continue with the lines, I will give the opportunity for a personal explanation to Mr. Balabanov and my colleague Ivanov, was your last name, forgive me, which were mentioned. Here you are, Mr. Balabanov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All day long there are suggestions, definitions, lies, speculations. Mr. Atanasov, we know each other. Now from the stands, of course you're playing a role because you're trying to put yourself on the other side of the coin, I understand. I understand because you took yellow coins. I understand because you have succumbed to all the temptations we have commented on today. Mr. Atanasov, I turn to you and speak to you, as I will stop telling you a traitor, people understand that you are one, but in the end, you know the truth because you know me very well as you know me as part of the parliamentary group for so many years, come three years because you are the founder of this party. You, Mr. Atanasov, a month ago you are outraged in social networks and share videos from the European Parliament, in which Bulgarian MPs will use the topic Northern Macedonia, and you say that this is some kind of smoke to mask the thefts and the mafia that we serve, you yourself say: "Kire... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u197	Colleagues, out of place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u198	This is what the situation in the European Parliament looks like in relation to northern Macedonia. " Today you say that northern Macedonia has nothing to do with this. Mr. Atanasov, with all due respect to you, you have made your personal choice, it is your personal choice, I will only tell you that in Bulgarian history such a choice has never been made with dignity. It doesn't suit you at your age, it doesn't suit you to the relationship we had, because I don't believe in the stands to say anything bad about me, as we know each other outside the cameras. We've communicated many times, and you've fingered the person standing right next to me. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is your choice, you have the right to do it from the position of one day everyone to say: this was another traitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u199	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Mr. Ivanov and you for a personal explanation. Here you go. I hope you'll do as well as you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. President, if you know me a little bit more, I have rarely spoken out of this tribune, because I believe that there are sometimes too many emotions in this National Assembly that are harmful, and I, from my humble public experience, know that emotions, especially in politics, are very harmful. That is why I appeal to my colleagues, Mr. Georgi Georgiev, particularly, was applauding very much earlier. Colleagues, we'll get through this. Emotions aren't the best thing in this case, believe me. Life does not end either with this parliament or with this government. Let's run away from these emotions. Regarding my mention by colleague Ivo Atanasov. Yes, I was too honest with you yesterday. You know that this has always been the case and I told you: yes, Mr. Tosko Yordanov said that you are an emotional person and if you think that this decision has been made under some emotion, you are welcome. Is that what the conversation was?! You can confirm that. Now, out of respect for you, I do have respect for all the colleagues who have decided to leave and take a different path, I will not recreate a conversation from Sunday with you, as this would blow up the entire hall and would give another angle at all to all those standing there in the back of the room behind BSP. I won't do it out of respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u201	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Atanasov, you have the right to dodge a moment to run out of lines. Honest Mitev for a line. Is there anyone who wants a third line? Not at the moment. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, I hope you will keep the good tone as it was in the last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers! Several things have become clear here from the previous statements, and if I may summarize them as a line, of course, to Mr. Atanasov. One is, Mr. Bikov said: we are the Mafia. I think that was clearly heard from this tribune, we already know who voted today the resignation of Mr. Minchev the Mafia. I'm a tie lover, and I think it's one of the few ways we can express ourselves in our costumes here. I'm wearing a dinosaur tie today and I'll tell you what the mafia have in common in the gym and the dinosaurs. Dinosaurs are scary, but we said many times: we are not afraid. The dinosaurs have disappeared, and many people here will disappear from the history of Bulgaria and one day will be just an application, a motive of the tie of a MP from the Change. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u203	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Is there gonna be a third line? Here you go, Mr. Ebatine. You have the floor for the third line. I hope you won't comment on ties?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u204	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I am logically listening to all the speeches today and I come to the conclusion to tell you that a power, including the Prime Minister, is turning, which does not accept parliamentaryism, that there are such procedures and that the opposition has the right to its own opinion, that power has become a mafia! Do you understand what this is about?! [[Applause from the DPS. Screams and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you accept that the opposition has the right to differ and to stand up for its position? This is a mafia! Mafia is betraying national interest, mafia is not ruling quality and people want your resignation. Isn't that the mob? Isn't that a mafia that everyone stands up to? It's all mafia, coworkers! And it's not even about the person of the President of the National Assembly at all, no matter how much you try to stay in power. This power, colleagues, has been exhausted! It's exhausted, accept it. Either way, you're going to go now or after a certain time, that power is exhausted! And not to accept it means that you are not at all aware of parliamentaryism and democratic governance with what parliamentaryism is proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u205	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u206	And you have to understand that as soon as possible, that's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u207	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. It wasn't like a line, it was more like a statement. Unfortunately, colleagues can't give you a line now if they want to. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u208	Dear colleagues, let's stop with the case of Northern Macedonia. I am not the prime minister's lawyer. If he has committed national betrayal, he should be sentenced and punished in prison. I listened very carefully to Teddy Genchovska yesterday. My conclusion from everything she has said is that the political solution for the case is in the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us then, when the time comes, make this decision and become clear many things. If the Prime Minister or any of this government has committed a crime, the Bulgarian court will condemn him and put him in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u209	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. For a statement I had declared Mr. Petar Kyosev, then I will include among all the recorded Mr. Karadayi, because there were no statements on the substance from the DPS, and then Mr. Hristo Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Kyosev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just asking you to remind me what we're discussing today. Today we are discussing the resignation of the President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u211	That's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u212	After all, my speech can also be considered to some extent the duplicate of what Mr Svilenski said because he mentioned the previous presidents of this National Assembly. Colleagues, you all know the portraits of the Presidents of the National Assembly, which are hanging on the south side of the other side. As soon as the Presidential seat was inaugurated, according to the parliamentary practice and tradition of the National Assembly, a place was assigned on the same wall for the portrait of Mr. Nikola Minchev. An empty place, which he has already filled with thought and dignity with his example, with his decent behaviour, with the just attitude and due respect to all of us, to the majority responsible, to the opposition, to the new opposition in sheepskin. In the short time he held this post, Nikola Minchev deservedly ranked among the most worthy contemporary parliamentarians and Bulgarian politicians who held this chair. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that today is a sad day. It is a sad day for voters, for free society and for Bulgarian parliamentaryism, it is sad because you, the newly formed majority, with this vote you are about to take as a decision, will decide to remove the President of the National Assembly from this same chair and to hang Nikola Minchev's portrait on that wall. Colleagues, I have a request to you: when you measure your vote in the upcoming vote, please remember Radoi Ralyn, please remember that when the disgusted go away, the disgusting ones remain. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u213	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. Hey, guys, any lines? Mr. Stamov, come in for a line. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Stamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u214	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Mr. Kosev, I will complete a few things for our President of the National Assembly, who is perfect in every respect. Nikola is actually among the youngest presidents in the history of the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] Among the youngest! At the same time, with his youth he brought wisdom and a different approach to his work, with which he easily led the meetings and managed to put down even the biggest fires. I think everyone saw that quality of his and he got the trust he deserved from everyone in this room. Nikola from the first day sat in the highest chair in the National Assembly and began to lead the meeting as if he had been doing this all his life. In fact, almost all of us were without any parliamentary experience, but we have shown that we are quite quickly navigating in the environment, and that is a sign of intelligence. Because, as Stephen Hawking says, intelligence is the ability to adapt to change. On the other hand, however, I see that much of the people in this room find it quite difficult to get used to change. Now is the time of the young to go the country in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u215	Thank you, Mr. Stamov. Ivan Manev for the second line, Iskren Mitev for the third. I'll write you off from those who wish to speak, Mr. Manev. Here you are, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u216	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of executive power, colleagues! Mr. Kosev, I just want to add something to what you said, something I will share with you personally. I broke up with my business and my life, which I did until before to come here to replace Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva with Mr. Nikola Minchev. For God's sake, brothers, let's not bring this Mrs. Karayancheva back! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u217	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Antonia Dimitrova for the third line. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Mr. Kosev, I agree with you that the request for resignation of the President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev did not surprise anyone today. This is a predictable move by the opposition to see if the vote of no confidence will pass to the government. Until recently, the impossible coalition GERB is underway and we are facing a real battle with the Mafia. We knew we'd get to crisis situations, confronting corruption. This is a natural move by stopping Captain Andreevo's tap, leaking billions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the submitted KKCONPI Bill, which you are obviously afraid of. In today's debate that drags on maybe three hours, we expect all sorts of tactics and behind-the-scenes games. But I want to tell you what the difference is between us. We have honor and dignity, you have interests; we have ideals and dreams, you have receipts in the accounts; we have the power to stand up against the octopus ruling the state, and you are the tentacles; we have worthy leaders leading us with respect, you have authoritarian leaders with stacks and bars in the nightstand! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We support Nikola Minchev and I believe that in this House there are more than 121 decent, honest MPs who have come to serve their people, not themselves, not their party, but the people who have chosen them to be here and to serve the common good. We are the Change and we will not calm down and give up until we see you out of the political scene. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Here you go, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the talkers. What I saw from their speech, and what I express personally is that we support Mr. Nikola Minchev. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u221	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. To make a statement, Mr. Karadaye. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A logical debate in this political situation that we are in, and the political situation that we are in is a logical consequence of the behavior that we have been looking at for the past few months. First, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to applaud Mr. Minchev. [[Applause from the DPS and We are continuing the Change.]] The debate here is not about the personal qualities or personal assessment of Mr. Minchev, the debate is political. No matter how hard I try to change the subject, it's not gonna happen. In this situation we find ourselves in, unfortunately, Mr. Minchev becomes the victim of, I quote: "The Mafia, backstage, corruption... " and all those lies that we have been listening to these past few months, including to reach today from this tribune the Prime Minister of my country to call for ethnic opposition. Something like this hasn't happened in 32 years. I hope for reason and wisdom from all Bulgarian citizens and to make a proper assessment of these calls of the Prime Minister. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms has been created in a very complex situation. 32 years of freedom and rights movement brings a responsible policy, a national responsible policy in our country of Bulgaria. Different people went through the field of politics and held different positions, but the Movement for Rights and Freedoms remained consistent and did not cheat on our mission to keep the integrity of our country Bulgaria, to be guardians of peace, to be guardians of security in our country, to keep it even from those here who call for opposition, but this also has its logic. [[indicating to members of the government]] [[Applause from DPS]] These primos are resorted to by those political actors who do not have political competence, or rather are politically impotent, but they have a measure of living in the political field and what they reside on the political field cannot speak out loud and then they are already looking for opposition, hatred, division, and on the contrary, with a division of prosperity there can be no way. Prosperity exists when the nation is united. The responsible policy is to unite the nation and manage it, lead it for the better. Times are crisis, there are a number of crises: economic, social, as a result of a Kovid, there are crises due to the war with the neighbours. In Bulgaria there is a political crisis from the inability and incompetence of those who are trying to oppose both society and in this situation the most important, the biggest anti-crisis measure is not even the resignation of the President of the National Assembly, but is the resignation of this government the worst government in 32 years. [[Applause from DPS]] [[Applause from DPS.]] But political logic dictates that things should go according to the natural course even for those who have not understood that they have lied to the Bulgarian people and their voters and that their trust in them has already been withdrawn. The natural political move is to show that the agenda of society is different, not their agenda. From this point of view, a sign is given, a symbol, here in the National Assembly, you managed to lose your majority, and by losing the majority, the most resonant thing is to seek dialogue, what you lack about the political dialogue about the outcome of the situation. You, as this does not understand, it is normal, now you will see how a natural political move will happen today, and then the other natural political move will happen, and your resignation will be accepted, which is a normal consequence of your behaviour. With hatred cannot be ruled, with hatred you can reach parliament, with hatred you can reach power, but with hatred cannot be ruled, and the basis of this coalition is hatred and lies [[Applause from DPS]] because for 12 years we from this tribune have made an assessment and we have talked about the GERB model and you today to come and from this tribune us to point us in the direction of something more, to stick qualifications at our address, somehow this demagogy must end naturally, naturally, in order to reach that normality in the political terrain. At the heart of politics cannot be hatred, the basis of politics lies dialogue, the respect for the different, for the other, for the different opinion. At the heart of politics are political values, not the denial of values. A policy and coalition based on hatred and lying cannot continue and the sooner we start a really serious political debate about the outcome of this crisis in which the state is, the sooner the real political dialogue begins in search of the future of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgaria, the better. The longer you sit around pretending that you don't understand that you're untenable anymore, the more this agony will continue. My call is, do not lower the debate and the level of the National Assembly to that level in which these are located. [[He points to the members of the government.]] Give with that necessary responsibility to approach and look for a solution to the problems of Bulgarian citizens. Bulgarian citizens have become poor. They've lost another 20%... [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u223	Don't engage in dialogue! The budget is next.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u224	Thank you for reminding me. I'm gonna stop here and then I'm gonna go ahead and listen to you, so I'm gonna stop. I know and I am convinced that I will still use your words that Mr. Minchev has the need to be released from the backstage, to be released from the Mafia, to be released from the corrupt, and that is why all those reasonable, conscientious, smart, beautiful, decent, free, decent, responsible, moral, independent and so on MPs will vote for his resignation to protect him as well. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u225	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I must warn you that after the procedure is completed with lines and backdrops, I will give the floor to Mr. Vassilev. Here's your first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Karadaye, with two points I would like to respond to your speech. First of all, what you're saying is that we've planted hatred, that we're based on hate, you said about ethnic hatred. I am here definitely 100 percent completely disagreed with you. Our main value, which we are fighting for, is equality between Bulgarian citizens and human rights. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] This is certainly the case, and we, Mr Karadayi, have had the opportunity to enter into insane, unprincipled alliances with hate parties that are already preaching ethnic hatred. We, Mr. Karadaye, didn't do it because we have principles in this direction. The other thing you said that the current debate is a logical consequence of the current government, that the issue is not related to Mr. Minchev's personal qualities. We all agree that he has so far led this meeting in a perfect way. You are right that the reason for this debate is the horrific government that we have been conducting. We did not enter into talks, we did not enter into schemes, we did not enter into corruption agreements and of course that this irritates and was interpreted as some type of hatred. No, we just want to work in principle, and that's obviously unpleasant for a lot of people. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u227	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Are there any other groups interested in lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karadayi, if you'd like. You don't want to. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u228	Mr. Karadayi, I listened very carefully to your speech. You said the debate was not about Mr. Minchev, but about the political situation in the country. I do not want to live in a country where the debate on the President of the National Assembly is not about the person who will take up this post. The debate about the President of the National Assembly is and should be about who is most worthy to lead this National Assembly. It's not about anything else. Until the posts are a function of people who are not present in this National Assembly, Bulgaria will not be free of this particular mafia and backstage, which you have also spoken about. [[Applause from the "We are continuing the Change" and Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] You said that we have made a call for political opposition, for ethnic opposition. No, Mr. Karadayi, our call is for opposition to companies and people who rob this country regardless of their ethnicity. [[Applause from..We continue the Change, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and members of the government]] Thirty-two years of DPS is in politics and the poorest parts of the state are where the voters of the DPS are. [[Reply from DPS: "This is an absolute lie! "]] However, some of the richest people in the country are members of the DPS. [[Applause from the "We are continuing the Change", Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and members of the government.]] We do not fight or preach against the people who live in the areas that vote for you. We are fighting against the people whose bank accounts you are filling with your way of ruling, with your behind-the-scenes arrangements and with the so-called dialogue that you are preaching. This dialogue is not about the welfare of Bulgarian citizens. This dialogue that you want is about how to steal unpardonly and unceremoniously and continue. [[Voices from DPS: "Eee! "]] Well, here's the news. It won't last. We're not going into this dialogue with anyone. [[Deputies of the.. We continue the Change, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and the members of the government stand up and applaud. MPs from the DPS stand up and applaud. Announcements by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi: "Bravo! "]] You speak with hope of our stay on the political field, in the hope that we are something temporary that will pass away. Here's another piece of news that won't go away. This is the beginning of a change that the Bulgarian society asked for and which it will want in the squares every day until it happens, regardless of attempts to form artificial majorities that are absolutely unprincipled. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yes, which are absolutely unprincipled and are intended only to continue all the schemes that we started to stop. [[Loud noise and lines.]] This is the basis of your majority. And yes, I know we're in your way. We will continue to interfere with you whether we are in power or not. [[Applause from the "We are continuing the Change", Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and the members of the government.]] We'll stay here and win our country back with all the means of parliamentaryism. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You said the best anti-crisis measure would be the government's resignation. [[(Reply by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi:]] Okay. Yes, it will indeed be the best anti-crisis measure for bars, lockers, the thieves of Captain Andreevo and all who are trying to rob the Bulgarian people's billions for their own use instead of going for pensions, health and education. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and members of the government.]] For them this will be an anti-crisis measure because they are in crisis! [[Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev strikes on the stands. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]] Such a deep crisis! [[(Deputies from "Keep On Changing" stand up and applaud. Loud noise and shouting from DPS:]] Such a deep crisis, Mr. Karadaye, that you're ready to embrace this government. It's such a deep crisis for people who pull your strings and sit in the saras...... and sit in the saras, and from there they try to rule the state. [[Shouting from DPS: "Woo! "]] [[Lowered noise and lines from DPS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u229	Whoa! Who the hell are you?! Who the hell are you?! What have you done for this country?! [[Deputies from "Keep On Changing" stand up and applaud. The MPs from the DPS are good, too. People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u230	Wait a minute, Mr. Karadaye. Wait a minute, Mr. Karadaye! I haven't...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u231	Mr. Chairman, I'll be waiting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u232	Mr. Karadaye!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u233	No, I'm putting the microphone down, I'm gonna wait until... [[(Applause and cheers by.. We continue The ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u234	Colleagues, the word is given, not taken willingly. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait a minute! Wait, to calm down the room, to sit down colleagues so they can hear what you have to say, as I assume the procedure will be in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u235	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u236	What's it gonna be? Personal treatment?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u237	Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u238	There's no such procedure, so let's wait a while. I see that the debate is slightly moving towards what we are going to be conducting next week, but what we can do, Mr. Karadayi, is in the manner of keeping you to say what you think is necessary, as a dialogue has begun between you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly and distinguished bystanders... [[(Applause from the DPS. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u240	Mr. Karadaye, I don't know who you're talking about, but there are no random passersby here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u241	I don't know who the random passersby are either, but I'm addressing the random passersby. [[Laughter]] There are a few things to say that clearly need to be heard by this House because there are some random passersby who do not know what is happening in my country Bulgaria. For decades, attempts at violent assimilation resulted in the creation of an illegal organization in 1985 by Mr. Ahmed Dogan. [[Applause from DPS.]] It's in the archives. Anyone interested in what is happening in my country of Bulgaria can read it and learn it. The illegal organization, unfortunately, was discovered 1986 and the leaders were in prisons. However, the prisons organised peaceful May protests in 1989, against which the communist totalitarian regime stood with tanks and automatics. And today we read from the transcripts of the then power what is the goal: From 250 to 350 thousand Bulgarian Muslim citizens should be removed from Bulgaria. We saw this result in 1989. And when they came out of the prisons December 1989 in that situation of fresh graves from attempts at violent assimilation for decades from the 1960s, and the fresh graves of the 89th year, the peaceful Mayan protests, managed in Bulgaria to make Mr. Dogan talk about the philosophy of unity, Mr. Dogan to speak about a Bulgarian ethnic model, Mr. Dogan to speak against rematchism and to be able to impose it as politics in Bulgaria rather than opposition. And today some random passersby use Mr. Dogan's name just like that, Mr. Chairman, a little bit does not correspond to history, nor to their significance, no matter what they see in their personal mirror. However, the recognition you have now made here is this beautiful person that is a function of the behind-the-scenes and the mafia, yes, you are, that is exactly how you came and entered politics as a function of the behind-the-scenes and the mafia. [[directed to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov]] You who have come and done so far instead of state policy in the name and for the people, you are making politics, or trying to do, for the sake of the Mafia and backstage companies. That's exactly what you're trying to do! [[(Replies from]] And that is why, dear Mr. Chairman, when we speak of fighting thieves and fighting backstage and fighting the mafia, yes, we will continue to fight. [[Applause from DPS]] Neither your goonsuratlak, nor your insolence, nor your arrogance can stop us from protecting peace, stability and security in our country Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u242	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "Procedure. "]] Wait a minute. We're a little out of line here, but... [[Loud noise and lines.]] I would suggest... [[Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev wants the floor.]] Look, we can't turn this debate into a dialogue. We'll have a chance to do it... [[(Replica by Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev:]] Wait a minute. We'll have a chance to do that next week with even more details. Let's not forget what the topic of today's discussion is, but I feel that you have become quite tired, so I am giving 20 minutes of rest, and then we will continue. [[Applause.]] [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u243	We're continuing our session. Deputy Prime Minister Vasiliev asked for the word "shortly," after which Professor Mihailov will speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u244	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. I don't see Mr. Karadayi, who took a line after my speech about how we planted ethnic problems. There's only one thing I want to say and one retrospect to do for Mr. Dogan and his way into politics. There's only one thing I want to say. In six months, what our government has done for remote and poor areas is to agree to have in the Recovery Plan helicopter medical emergency and to negotiate in the European programmes a mandatory condition half the money to go to Northern Bulgaria, precisely for the most damaged areas. In 32 years, what the DPS has done for these people is to make Mr. Delyan Slavchev Peevski the richest man in the country and build the palace in Rosenets for Mr. Dogan. That's the score. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u245	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor.]] Of course. By the way, I suppose, Mr. Tsonev? And then back to the discussion that we've announced as a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u246	I was just thinking, Mr. Chairman, to congratulate you on giving a hot break. That's what the chairman should do. And now I have to do you a procedure in the manner of conduct. What did this have to do with the debate with Mr. Karadaye? Why are you letting this random... [[Noise and cheering from.. We continue the Change....................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u247	Well, Mr. Tsonev, there are ways to express attitude without sounding offensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u248	Okay, and are there any ways you can not allow ministers to tap into the National Assembly's department? Do you have any idea, Mr. Vigenin, that this is the first time anyone's allowed themselves to bang on the people's representatives? What do you mean? What do you mean? Clattering to say he's gonna fight corruption?! Well, you're in power for a year. What did you do this year? You're going through your own schemes, your sponsors' schemes, the Procopiev schematics? We're talking about... [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] No, don't open my mouth, I don't want to be sharp.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u249	No, don't engage in dialogue. Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u250	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I mean, if you had stopped him...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u251	Finish it. Yes, yes, I accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u252	...because in the mouth of a young man, the person who has done most for the national security of the country, for the ethnic peace in the country, there is no place to discuss such a person. At the very least, I can say this at this time because, when in the Balkans all intelligence plants wrote that the most likely ethnic conflict after 1989 was in Bulgaria due to the revival process, one person came out and said: And now in the mouth of people, okay, I apologize for random, you know, words like that shouldn't be used in the stands. Okay, I accept, but how else can I express my outrage? Can you do that? Not to mention there's talk of corruption here. You're gonna hear so much corruption charges against you, and we're gonna try to prove them that I just don't want to start this topic right now. We're going to ask a lot of questions about cigarette excises and sponsors and seeds and so on. That's the easiest thing to do. The question is that the debate should be where the government is, shouldn't it be, shouldn't it be, and why Mr. Minchev is being asked to resign today? This is my call to you, to really calm down the ball and get the debate back there. Otherwise, the banging on the table will be returned when it's right and right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u253	Keep in mind also that the time of the group is over, so that the way you keep it will not be possible to take the word anymore. I've announced Professor Mihailov. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u254	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Council of Ministers! My fellow Members, in this debate many times, the limits of time have been crossed, and I hope that you will leave a little more of my time now so that I can construct my thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u255	Well, I'm gonna give a little, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u256	Indeed, I agree with the Deputy Prime Minister that the date, which has been running here for the fourth hour, should have been on the topic.................................is Mr. Minchev worthy to be President of the National Assembly......................................... Here were presented these very good ones, both by Georgi Svilenski and by the MP's colleague, who suggested that he, in the particular case he was accused of, and in others, did not break the rules of the Rules of Procedure, received enough, so to speak, statesmanly and they are not justified, meaning that this debate on this topic should be over long ago. I only remember here how many weeks ago, his colleague had put him on this guillotine, he survived, now Minchev is about not to survive. Minchev is a worthy Bulgarian citizen, a worthy Bulgarian politician and performing his functions perfectly as President of the National Assembly until now. That's what I can say, and that concludes this part of the debate, because the other part turned out to be much bigger. In fact, under the cover of the debate on the President of the National Assembly and his resignation, epic battles were waged who is who and why he is in the Bulgarian Parliament, in the Bulgarian history, what should happen from now on, who will sweep whom away. I would like to remind everyone here who represents the Bulgarian citizens that I am not the lawyer of the Prime Minister, have other main problems, not Minchev's place in the ladder of the National Assembly. They are: economic crisis, demographic crisis, energy crisis. And we would have solved these issues with the discussion of the budget, honourable Members, and two days in a row you start the day with topics that are not on the agenda of the Bulgarians. They didn't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u257	The weather, Mr. Mihailov, has already improved.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u258	And you keep wasting your time, and we're gonna be here this afternoon discussing the budget. This must be stopped in some way and I call on all of you to come back for our tasks in this House and to be useful to the Bulgarian nation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u259	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there lines? Here's a line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u260	Mr. Chairman! Professor Mihailov, I'm interested in your these, I want to hear more. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u261	The professor summarized them, but... Is there another line? I can't see. Please, Professor Mihailov, explain about Mr. Ananiev a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Council of Ministers! Dear Mr. Ananiev, a few days ago I took the liberty of putting in front of the Chamber the problem of reconciliation of the nation. On the occasion of a legislative initiative. Then I took the liberty of quoting Franco's wish, which he expressed after his death where to be buried, the problems in Greece, in Italy after World War II, in France, and I am trying to remind everyone, and those who bravely waved the ethnic map at the moment. And to those who call others against themselves profans, and to ourselves experts, we have gathered here to defend the interests of the entire nation, regardless of how they understand these interests, and to find consensus, not opposition, as we lead the entire nation to opposition, which reaches a degree that was 30 years ago. Our nation does not deserve this opposition. She won't forgive us. He will not forgive those who have committed political harakiri here today with their behavior. He'll remember them, and forever he'll wipe them out of political life. Therefore, I ask my colleagues not to take up any more time on the honourable people's representation, to continue on the tasks we have. There's a topic to vote on here, let's see who thinks what. I repeat again that for me and for the crucial part of the Chamber Minchev is a worthy President of the National Assembly. The rest we have to do this afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u263	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. The word has Dessislava Atanasova. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I waited patiently...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u265	To end group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u266	Mr. Bojankov! [[Replicates from the National Representative Toma Bikov to the National Representative Yavor Bojankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u267	...the statements of the groups. And it is increasingly unclear to me what this debate has today contributed to the state, to citizens, to dialogue, to crisis decisions. Another shameful day for the Bulgarian Parliament, for Bulgarian parliamentaryism. It has so far been demonstrated that there is emotional instability from the highest tribune in the Bulgarian state. From people who have the self-esteem that they can solve crises, manage a country, have solutions, be change. This debate started with a vocabulary which I can rather define as a vocabulary for clearing internal coalition relations and it was shameful and ugly, and it did not contribute to greater confidence in the Bulgarian political system. It did not contribute to the greater confidence in the parties and in the people who, thanks to the vote, are here. There's a lot of talk about morals and who can give moral judgment. How could they not have been called MPs in today's mafia, backstage? There was talk of money, dirty money, criminal schemes, custom clearance. By the way, we've been talking about this for a few days. Morality, honourable colleagues, is often used as an alibi, very often. The last two years have been very common. History, however, teaches us that the most sinister abuse has also been done with moral considerations. What we saw today in the Bulgarian Parliament is an outrage. Abuse against democracy including because, if I have to put the debate and the subject back on the agenda, as the first item of this meeting, the discussion is a very resonant parliamentary procedure that the opposition is using. Such a procedure is also a vote of no confidence. This is democracy, honourable Members. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] Yes, it's democracy................................................. and government........................................... Those who have received a higher degree of public confidence are almost always in the government. Sometimes they refuse to be in it, and that's what happened to us last year. At the moment, however, we are in a situation where today's debate does not comment on the procedure, the violations, the motives, unfortunately, commented many, many other layered contradictions - internal coalition, outside coalition. It has come to play with the ethnic map, which is unacceptable and unprecedented. I will talk essentially about the resignation of President Minchev and the systematic violations of the Rules of Procedure, especially yesterday, which he admitted. Many of you said that Mr. Minchev is the youngest President of the National Assembly. There have been younger men than him, and youth is not a vice. These are Dimitar Tonchev, 27 years old, Chairman of the Third Grand National Assembly, this is even Stambolov, Chairman of the ordinary National Assembly. Many of you said that Mr. Minchev is perfect, he is brilliant. I do not dispute your assessment, honourable Members, you are his colleagues in the parliamentary group or his coalition partners in the management and you are entitled to this assessment. I'm just gonna say that I see some inaccuracies here, too. Mr. Minchev has one statement from the parliamentary tribune, of which at least we cannot judge how brilliant a lawyer he is. Maybe he is. What, in the last six months, would we remember mostly the President of the Bulgarian Parliament outside the procedures, outside the opposition between the political forces, beyond that? Because at the beginning, yes, he was uncertain, but understood that the word of the opposition was not taken away, understood that the procedures were part of the parliamentary life, understood that he had a different opinion, not only the opinion of the government, but he was the President who put bars at the entrance of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[(Replies from]] Mr. Minchev, most likely after some time, minutes or hours, you will no longer be President of the Bulgarian Parliament. You will probably make a statement in which you will refute many of the statements of the importers and their motives for the request for resignation, but the truth is that yesterday you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During these six months, you have also done it systematically, although with the power of the majority, you have managed to vote three times each other's decisions, to find procedural opportunities for one thing or another. I believe that today's vote will not only be a demonstration of another majority. For you personally and for your parliamentary group, it will also be a lesson. I hope you learn that, you'll probably have a seat in the next forty-eighth parliament. But today's debate, honourable Members, has become so alive, bright, at times brutal, from the point of view of purely human relations even because one thing during the debate was true the word crisis, and the debate is not likely so much for Mr. Minchev's resignation, but for the crisis, the crisis in governance. In this sense, honourable colleagues and Mr. Petkov, you will make it very easy for the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian citizens to vote today on two resignations of Minchev, your government and your government. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. We continue the Change:..................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u268	You can't today. Even if he's willing, he's staying for next week. Are there any lines to Mrs. Atanasova's statement? I can't see. Mr. Atanasov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Today, understandable, many clichés and heavy qualifications, but I would still like to try to say something relating to the specific procedure....................the request of the President of the National Assembly's resignation. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" will vote against this resignation, and it will be based on the arguments that we heard from the opposition today in this Chamber a respectable, educated, tolerant person who had to take his head for political reasons. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]] That's not parliamentary, I'm sorry. And, of course, today it's overture to the government's no-confidence vote. Because you use qualifications here quite often, and I'm going to assume that this is the beginning of a moving coup. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, it is! And since I want to stop your attention... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Well, yes, there is a change in the will of the voters, because colleagues from "There is such a people" said they want to enter the parliament to scrape the GERB model, and today they are in union with them?! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]] And now, this may sound like a professional deformity, but on the particular occasion. There was no violation by the President of the National Assembly yesterday, you perverted things, but I, when I got to know these documents so sacred, somewhere in the Secret Office, told me everything. Yeah, yeah, 'cause I know who, who, who, and who's connected to who. I want to tell you something, you'll forgive me for this detour. I went through the Internet last night and came across something that I had seen two or three years ago on a sketch by two Russian actors who played an act of an agent meeting between Putin and Kim Jong Un, where Kim Jong Un told him: "Vladimir Vladimirovich, let me go, I can't live like this anymore to eat only white rice there." And in order to motivate him that he should stay there, he says: "Do you remember Igor Ivanovich from the next class when we were in the KGB? Well, yeah. Do you ask him how he endured being in Germany at the chancellor's place? [[Noise. Awesome.]] So when I read it and when I saw this thing, I pictured the graduates from the school in Simeonovo, Boyko Borisov and Ivan Geshev gathered in one of these apartments. They wonder what to do, and one of them at one point says to him: "Do you imagine what is wrong with Slavi Trifonov? " [[(Laughter) We are continuing the Change.)]] That's what I'm talking about. And because you resent me, we've talked here about behind-the-scenes and so on, because that's how you pull the strings. It's a pathetic story, unfortunately! It is a pathetic story and you want those who put together the new majority, to create a Berov cabinet, to appoint people to the regulators, to choose there in the Supreme Judicial Council or somewhere where you are comfortable people and to continue Boris' state. We won't allow it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u270	For a line, I suppose? First line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, to tell you that it is a parliament to replace the President, and even if it is a vote of mistrust of a government, it is not called a coup, it is a normal parliamentary procedure. In Italy, I think there is already a third government within the same parliament. In short, three coups the mob did there. So don't take it so hard. It's happened, it's going to happen from now on, and it can happen to anyone. It happened to you because you have constructed, if you have forgotten, because six months are not many, but there are not few, but if you have forgotten, you have built a management in which three formations have entered which had lost the elections. They at the elections for the Forty-Seventh National Assembly all had much less votes than they had in the previous elections. When three losing parties enter the government, it cannot be stable and there is nothing to be angry with the opposition. Secondly, regarding the replacement of the vote of voters. I do not know who has spoken to their constituents, but I am absolutely convinced and sure that you of your constituents have never promised to join a coalition with BSP. Never! At least I haven't heard. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] If you had done so, even in two parliaments, the forty-fiveth and forty-sixth National Assembly, you did not make a government because you did not want to join a coalition with BSP. It's okay. That's what you decided. That's why I'm not judging you, I'm just saying. But do not take into account as a coup that you have not entered with sufficient legitimacy into a single government, that this government has not entered into its role legitimately enough. That's a whole other thing. Not to mention the goals you set with the few MPs you have. Your goal is to fly to the moon, and you can't get on the cherry! [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] That's your problem, that's breaking up with reality. And today you will face reality, and reality you will encounter both next week and the other, and for a long time until you realize that reality cannot be surrounded by fantasies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u272	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Second line, Mr. Nenkov, I can't see a third.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister, ministers! Mr. Atanasov, I've seen what you've been doing for the last few days, maybe even the last few months. You sit so slightly aside and try to get between the drops, somehow not be offended by the transfer of so much shit between former coalition partners. Only this job doesn't work because you're part of this department. You didn't do the most important six months, you failed to calm the state, you failed to reduce the aggression between the institutions, between political parties, between leaders, in society, between business. You didn't! True, today's debate is at a very low level.... who met where, when, what he had seen, what he had said to him. Indeed, I do not know what people feel, but surely it is no less than that as a qualification............................................................................................... However, you also bear this responsibility, and if you had valor when the coalition fell apart in front of the public, the first thing, the first thing you had to do was to ask the Prime Minister for a vote of confidence in order to get his support or not get it. If you had done this thing, in particular you, Mr. Atanasov, since you are part of this coalition, would not have come to these humiliating days we have witnessed. So all this debate, all this mud that's spilled between you, it's not your opposition, it's your fault, you're responsible for it directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u274	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Replicators! First, I ask you very much to listen carefully to what is said and not to interpret. I'm telling you, this is about starting a moving coup, and I'm repeating this thing because there's a change of vote of confidence. Otherwise, we from the Democratic Bulgaria do not run away from our responsibility. We know very well why we entered this coalition because the Bulgarian voters wanted you to be taken out of power. [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria...........................................................................................]] That is why it has come to this so that the left and right can create a government and a majority so that responsibility can be held for what you have done for 12 years. Not to repeat everything that has been told here today about construction, road repairs, drawers, bars and everything else. And for what else? Yeah, yeah, and for that 70 grand, what was it, was it 7 million for Alexandrovska Hospital and so on, and all that stuff to be hidden under the carpet? All of this to be hidden under the carpet. Isn't that what this is about? And again, I tell you, or I repeat what Putin and Kim Jong-un talked about, and he says to Putin: "Abe, do you ask Angela Merkel, who we have sent there for so many years, how did she endure? " So your work is the same, that's what this is all about. Because Borisov, I know this man's mentality very well. And because here, who teamed up with whom? Now, I don't know what kind of staff your executive committee currently has, I haven't been following, but the previous, more than 50% of the members of your previous executive committee were former members of the BCP. Do you want me to express them by name, starting from Borisov, Fandakova, Krasimir Velchev and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u276	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Next statement Mrs. Milcheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u277	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I am quite visible already in one period of life when I think a lot about one subject and believe that on this topic you have all thought in one form or another, and this is the subject where I want my children to grow up, in what country, in what world? And probably because I've been thinking a lot about this topic lately, the whole debate today, the point that we've been discussing, as well as the events of recent weeks, I've been reminded of some events from my childhood, and I'm now going to tell you about these events, and how there's been a lot of history in my experience to repeat itself. The year, colleagues, is 1992, and I'm four at the time. Philip Dimitrov's government then launched a frontal attack on some stolen billions from foreign trading companies. The emerging mafia at the time in the country, which, by the way, is seeking its roots in the then nomenclature, is opposed to this thing and at the same time the services are launching an attack on the government, do you know on what topic, colleagues? Macedonia! Surprise?! [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change" by Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] This frontal attack is also launched by the president, who is from the same party as the prime minister at the time. The government refuses to give in to pressure, and do you know what happens next, fellow Members? Quickly downloading the President of the National Assembly Mr. Stefan Savov. The operation, I will still surprise you, is led by the then coalition partner of the government. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The story from now on, I'm sure everyone knows it. There is a new majority following, in this majority some people from the previous government are ruling, following the years of the Multigroup, following the years of the robberies, following the years of timelessness, of our so-called transition. And in those years, colleagues, I grew up, I grew up in those years. In those years, it was normal to hear: "In that coffee where your aunt takes you for a cookie cake, they shot a guy in the head. " In those years it was normal to go on vacation to say: "You can't go to the pool because the bosses are here. " In those years I was told that with those kids you shouldn't mess with because their parents are dangerous people. And in these years we were basically told that everyone is equal, but some are more equal than others. So, colleagues, I grew up in those years and many of the people who are sitting in this room today also grew up in those years. Part of us are here, and to tell you the truth, only we and our families know what the cost is of being here, being educated, not wanting money, and, thank God, not having this famous experience that you're looking for from us. [[Extreme applause by the ministers, "We continue the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria".]] Mr. President of the National Assembly Nikola Minchev is an absolute example of what I am talking about right now. And we will support Mr. President Nikola Minchev because he is our Chairman. And I leave you, colleagues, with a very simple message, understand it however you want, accept it, do not accept it. My generation, we all know the story, we've read it, we've lived this story and we won't let it happen again. We will not allow it to happen again, and we will not allow our children, our children, to live in such a country and such a world. [[(All Ministers and Members of the People's Party Continue The Change is becoming right. We continue the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u278	Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Deputy Prime Minister Ninova asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u279	Dear Mr. President Minchev, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and fellow ministers! A very emotional statement by Alex Milcheva with a very strong thesis. The young people in this National Assembly have no experience. This may be a problem, but it's also a plus to some extent because they don't carry negatives on their backs. But I, honourable Members, would like to speak to you from the point of view of experience, based on an old Bulgarian proverb: The words mafia, backroom, fighting them all day are mentioned here. I was a member of parliament, we fought fierce battles with the backstage and with Prime Minister Borisov, and my colleagues have been here for 5 years! We know all the manners of this behind-the-scenes trying to buy us, overwhelming us, giving me three internal party coups, I've seen everything from the backstage, I've experienced it on my own, and everyone from the BSP for Bulgaria in those years. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why I'm telling you, on behalf of experience, I'm gonna talk to you today. These were very difficult 5 years of opposition from BSP to Bulgaria and we endured. We didn't sell out or surrender then, so we continue today in the government of Kiril Petkov because we have been fighting this battle for years, we have a goal, we have supporters, and we will continue to fight it. But let me also try to share with you. We've really seen some very heavy scenes in this room, but such a destructive political review as what's been going on in the last few days, I haven't seen one. It's devastating, with no thought of what's gonna happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, how we're gonna make it through the fall, how the people are gonna survive the winter. You destroy, and what do you suggest? You destroy, but there's no alternative. What's the alternative exactly? Perhaps there is a supplication, DPS, GERB, and there is such a people. That's the choice. The second thing I'd like to tell you is that we've seen in the years we fought backstage, all kinds of unprincipled arrangements, all kinds of things. But what is set on the horizon today as a coalition, an alternative coalition, simply has no principle or value. I would like to ask you: how does the desire to leave NATO and the European Union combine with the so vividly demonstrated Euro-Atlantic values of the DPS? [[DPS lines.]] How do you combine the desire to break the model GERB and sie, because it was not only GERB and it was not just GERB with the desire of one of the parties to remain at the moment with this model? You are very critical of our coalition: how did right and left come together? We have a common goal: the change of the model of the Mafia and the behind-the-scenes, which continues, and in recent weeks it has trenched itself and has given a cruel resistance to power and our desire to end this model. That's what brought us together months ago! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]] That's what keeps us together now, and that's gonna keep us going. Mafia and backstage have no color or party. Mafia and backstage have no ideology but one: money, theft, abuse on the back of the people. And I've noticed a change in the last few months. The older colleagues with whom we are here together must remember how much we have said that GERB and behind-the-scenes made corruption legal. They put her in the laws and made her unpunished. Today, the Mafia and the backroom have a different approach. Corruption has become classified. Everything we've uncovered, at least in our sectors as corruption, proven by the authorities of the state, and not empty talk, as is being heard here, has been classified. Well, we have a new fashion: secret corruption! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Do you think this could stop our will and our desire to fight it? No! Today, the resignation of the President of Parliament is being voted on. You have yourself admitted that your motives are not essentially about him, formal, non-serious, manipulative. It's a political subject. Dear MPs and Bulgarian citizens, Macedonia is not a topic. Macedonia was artificially lifted, artificially maintained, artificially manipulated to give a patriotic image to people who wanted to steal with impunity during that time. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" - BSP for Bulgaria "Democratic Bulgaria".]] And I'll tell you why it's not a theme! Because for us, one of the coalition partners for Bulgaria (BSP), this was claimed in the drawing of the cabinet as a red line and does not matter what games one of the coalition partners plays. We would not allow the veto to rise without fulfilling the commitments of the contract and this was placed by us from the first day and Mr. Petkov and So that couldn't have happened. The topic was simply used to play with the patriotic feelings of the Bulgarians. Dear Bulgarian citizens, the revival process is not a topic. She always pulls herself out to scare people. Today's topic is backstage against rules and order, theft against justice, illegal enrichment of a click against people's incomes, development of education, health care of a fair justice system. That's the choice today. And it's not about a few votes, MPs. Perhaps today you will vote on Minchev's resignation. Don't think this will have a positive effect on you. With so many spoken words that the mafia is returning its state, that the backroom today has the MPs and so on, the future chairman, who you will choose, whoever he is, has already been branded as the choice of the backroom. And by doing so you place an additional stain on the National Assembly as an institution. Okay, you'll take down Minchev. Okay, you'll put your chairman on it. So what?? Next week you're going to change government. Okay, so what?? You'll have a chair for three weeks in Parliament. So what?? You'll throw the country into chaos, autumn and winter into starvation. All right, where's your alternative, my dear?? Because when you offer something to stop, you have to suggest what to start. And your proposal is a return of the status quo, only enlargement........................................................................................... We're on the other side! [[The People's Representatives of the.. Continue the Change... BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Long applause.]] You're trying to provoke us as a political force "BSP for Bulgaria" that we stand in power for positions. [[Laughter at ISN and GERB-SDS.]] Dear colleagues, you young people here can say it because you don't remember the story, here, the recent one. You can't say it, though. GERB and Boyko Borisov offered in 2017 this post, the same! This post has been traded since then! The post of President of the Parliament was proposed by Boyko Borisov so that there would be no opposition. [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and the ministers.]] Then we said that BSP does not give up or sell for posts and that my goal is not to hold a high post, but to fight against this model. We have proven in practice that we are not for posts. As much as you criticize us for standing in this government for power and money, I say to young colleagues: to know that posts are not power, money, cars and benefits, the posts are levers for change, and you and we hold these levers now. [[Extreme applauses from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and the ministers.]] They could attack us, they could shoot down Mr. Minchev, it's important that we move on. In my experience, I tell you, don't be afraid, don't give up, don't give up! After all, the people will appreciate who is wrong and who is right in this battle! [[(Shouting:) Bravo! We are continuing the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria and the ministers are working. Long applause.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u280	Now there's Mr. Kostadinov to speak, I suppose. Then Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u281	Mr. Chairman, I will begin first with three remarks which are addressed to you to some extent. First of all, I would like to remind you of something that I think you know very well, but somehow you missed the debate today in Parliament, and it is that when it comes to discussions on intra-parliamentary activities and the debates concern the organizational work of the Bulgarian Parliament, in which the representatives of the other authorities were executive, or judicial, they have no right to intervene. However, you have given all representatives of the Bulgarian government, who are currently here, the opportunity to speak. So you have decided, so you have done we have already become accustomed to seeing how the rules and regulations do not matter at all. Because by the same logic, we could invite, for example, representatives of the judiciary here to express their attitude to an issue which concerns only the legislative authority. The second thing. You allowed this tribune to tell lies and to throw each other's accusations or attacks on a very painful topic for all Bulgarians, which almost 40 years ago, divided the Bulgarian nation very seriously. It's about the rebirth process. I couldn't understand exactly what the Prime Minister said, which was interpreted by the DPS as a swipe of an ethnic map, perhaps because sometimes it's really hard for our Prime Minister to understand what he wants to say. [[Arrival by GERB-SDS, ISN. The Prime Minister's line to the speaker.]] Either way, the reaction of the President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is extremely reprehensible because here he was talking about an illegal, secret resistance Turkish movement, which I quote, and this is recorded in the stenogram: in 1986, unfortunately, was revealed.! We're talking about terrorists killing people! [[(Reply from DPS:) You're squeezing something. You're wrong.]] Now is the time to say that during the Revival Process... [[(Reply from the DPS to the Prime Minister:) This is what you brought. This is what you brought!]] ...sacrifices are equally on both sides.. 29 people on one side and the other, both victims of the regime and victims of the pro-Turkish terrorists. [[Reply from DPS: "Bravo to you! "]] We lived to get to the point that representatives of a Bulgarian in quotes political organization regret that an anti-state terrorist entity has been revealed. This you should have crossed immediately and made a remark. I dedicate it to the lack of any historical culture.. not only with you, of course, but also, unfortunately, in a huge part of the Bulgarian political elite, which we suffer from, because he who does not know his history risks repeating it, and we always repeat it, and many times as a farce, and already as a tragedy. Thirdly, a short time ago, once again, the topic of Macedonia was put up and much speculated with it about how it was artificially raised in Bulgarian society, how it was seen that there was actually no problem. On the contrary, there is a problem and yesterday it became clear from Mrs. Genchovska's reply that our Prime Minister at least once, but it is clear that it is not only once he has made commitments to raise the veto over the negotiation process by Bulgaria. By the way, this was recognized just a while ago and in private conversations here with representatives of the representing coalition from "We are continuing the Change" that came to us and said, quote: "Nikola Minchev is a good boy, do not humiliate him! That Kiril Petkov wants to do something, that's his decision. We do not comment here whether someone is a good boy or a bad girl. We comment here on rules, as we comment on Parliament's decision. The Bulgarian Parliament has spoken on this issue, not once, but twice. The National Security Advisory Council too! Macedonia is closed until Macedonia fails to meet the conditions of Bulgaria. We're the ones who dictate the terms, not someone else to us! At least that's what it looks like when we look at the official documents. Is it really that someone else dictates or someone else has made commitments on behalf of Bulgaria? This thing is to be understood today or tomorrow if it is true that it will be submitted to the Committee on Foreign Policy a proposal for a change of the Bulgarian position with regard to Macedonia, which is a national betrayal. And speaking of rules, because it is time for me to finish pointing out to you, Mr. Vigenin, to say the following thing, something that has been largely eliminated here by the conversation, which unfortunately has acquired very low dimensions today. When a proposal is submitted signed not by one or two Members of the National Assembly but more than 50 Members of the National Assembly, it shall be placed on the agenda. It wasn't done! It was put to the vote, it went well, then during the discussion itself, during the hearing here itself, it became clear that circumstances were changing. There was one, second, third procedural proposal for this to change the hearing, quoted Members of the Chambers as saying that there was no point in repeating them, and I, our President, all of us, of course, the President of the National Assembly refused to put these procedural proposals to the vote, despite the numerous protests here. He said, "I'm not gonna put them through, and I'm not gonna put them through." [[There was no way! There's no way.]] What I want to tell you is that now here we have listened to crawling coups, coming coups and all sorts of other things, the truth is that whoever did what he did to himself, no one else can do it to him. The truth is that if, literally until yesterday or the day before yesterday, we really thought that the President of the National Assembly, with his balance and demonstrable impartiality, including once here he refused to give one of the ministers the right to speak simply because he had no right, earned only support, but at that time he lost this support. Because you all know trust is very difficult to build and is lost very easily. Why did this happen? I don't give it to Mr. Minchev's personal decision. Absolutely not! We've been working together for six months now. I believe that this is a man who actually demonstrated until recently, until that day, literally, impartiality, argumentation, knowledge of the Rules, which, by the way, further aggravates his guilt. Because if it was a ignorance, we could've taken away mistakes with our hand, but this guy didn't make a mistake, this guy made that decision. The question is whether he took it himself, or if they told him, and here is the big problem. We at AGE believe that the present majority, having lost its domination in parliament, lost its nerves, lost its peace. It was seen even, if you will, by the way the discussions went through here. It is very insulting for Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Not that parliamentaryism in Bulgaria has a huge authority and rating. We all know what it is, but it's insulting to each and every one of us. Undignified! From this point of view, we and therefore suggested, of course, what Mr Vigenin said was largely correct, although it never happened, we proposed that this debate be largely shortened. To a large extent to be shortened! Because we don't need these mutual insults and attacks. There is certainly one thing: there is a violation of the Rules, there is, let's not say, a crime, because it is not, but it is a violation. If there is a violation, there should be a penalty, not a penalty, but a penalty. And this is the normal democratic sanction that happens in the Bulgarian Parliament many times so far and there is nothing wrong with it. The problem is, in fact, that with its stubborn desire at all costs to hold on to the power of the present I would say majority, but it is no longer a majority, the current minority only and only prolongs agony, not its own, but the agony of statehood in Bulgaria. This is the big problem, because our statehood right now, compatriots, is in agony and we all see it. There are no blind people here and there are no stupid people, and there are just those who don't always say what they think, and they don't always say what they see. With today's vote, we will move towards a normal political process that will find its natural conclusion next week. In order not to get into a situation in which to express themselves all sorts of things, as Toshko Yordanov said here, so as not to express all sorts of such subjects and to prophesy who, with whom, how, we are going to new elections in autumn and to them we appear as in a referendum who is for and who is against the euro, the return of defence sovereignty, the return of our political independence, sanctions against Russia. All of this is gonna come together, and there's nothing scary about it and nothing bad about it. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u282	For the first line, Mr. Atanasov. I can't answer that, Mr. Kostadinov, because it wasn't in the way of conduct, otherwise it could have. You're mastering these procedural things, too. You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the rules, as you insist on compliance with the rules, I would like to draw attention to you that, under the current Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the Ministers may request and take the floor at any time. I do not know on what grounds you dispute the right of the representatives of the executive power that we have chosen to request the floor here after this is regulated in the Rules of Procedure. That's first. Secondly, Macedonia is not only an artificial theme, but this topic is being abused and I am not calm, I am emotionally burdened because my family, like thousands of Bulgarian families, has given blood for Macedonia! Do we want us next door to have a country where the people who live there are our blood brothers and to be our enemies because that's what we turn them into with all these debates?! Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u284	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Atanasov, it's obvious that you're emotionally restless. It is desirable to calm down, because Macedonia will ultimately not be betrayed. The other thing I can tell you is that it's nice when we talk about it. I believe that you are a well-intentioned person in this case, all the more so that if what you say is true, worship before your ancestors who gave blood to Macedonia, which, by the way, is probably half of the Bulgarians. But it wouldn't be bad to talk about Macedonia from the point of view of people who know not just the country on the map where it is, but also the people there. I have said this many times and I will use this terminology to say it once again: there is a huge difference between Macedonian political elite and Macedonian citizens, as there is a huge difference between the Bulgarian political elite and the citizens of Bulgaria. For better or worse, we are one people, not brothers. We are one people, to say it clearly and categorically, and we suffer from the same diseases. More Gotse Delchev said it in the old days, you know: "So let's do Kole baba, we are one people and we suffer from the same Bulgarian diseases as capi, as many captains. So, rest assured, we will keep the Bulgarian interest in Macedonia, we will do so that with a reasonable and good policy the population there, which is not a Bulgarian minority and which is a very criminal term used in the official correspondence of the Bulgarian government, is not a Bulgarian minority, but a majority, will have the opportunity gradually with Bulgarian support to feel calmly protected and defended, and this I think should be every political force here in our Parliament to protect it. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u286	Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u287	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, honourable Members! I risk being, as often happens, inadequate to the situation, but while I was listening to this debate, I kept thinking of a famous Kant phrase that man can never be a means and is always a goal. We have now all clearly admitted here that our President, who was one of the best things that this Parliament has managed to produce, which our puppy political time......................Radichkov used this phrase... poopy time, our poopy political time managed to produce, and we turn it into a tool, into a tool for what. Mrs. Atanasova said very precisely that there is a political crisis and this political crisis does not simply consist in losing a majority in our extremely complex coalition. There is no special news in this, given the complexity of this coalition. This crisis is an expression of the deep convulsion of the Bulgarian democratic process, which we have observed in the last two years at least, because having three parliamentary choices within 12 months and being strengthened with terrible force to the fourth, does not talk about the good health of Bulgarian democracy. Here was already drawn the parallel of the 1992 events, which really as a logic of the process, on the surface, unfortunately, are visible. But the state of the country then became visible, which led to those events, the immatureness of Bulgarian democracy and its inability to solve the political problems before the country. We are in the same situation at the moment, only the situation is much more frightening. At that time, the world was stable and much clearer, and now the world on which we should rely, as often happens in the last 30 years, is like a scrambled hive. At this point, can we afford to just drift along the course of this crisis without offering an alternative? Because unfortunately, I have to say that the only alternative to a clear political agenda for what follows was outlined by Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, so not just that there will be elections, but what will stand as the topic of these elections. I am absolutely willing to admit that this blockage, which we have now, is due to the responsibility of all participants, including my personal one. The big question here is where we're going and what we're doing and we can't get away from that question. Yes, the solution of the political crisis, of the deep inability of Bulgarian democracy to function is what we should have kept in focus. And yes, they are right those who say that there should be more dialogue, that the opposition should have much more in line with the parliamentary traditions of Bulgaria in the work of parliament, that we should have, especially if we wanted to solve such big national issues, and there is no place to escape them, such as the topic with Macedonia, to have more dialogue. However, we, in order to respond to the lack of dialogue, are attacking the most diagnostic person in this Parliament. I do not like to use superlatives, but Mr. Nikola Minchev is a dialog person and this is recognized by everyone. It is not a good tool to find a way out of the convulsion of Bulgarian democracy. And yes, I have to tell you, the other colleagues from GERB and DPS are also right. When we talk perhaps with notions that are too harsh, you react to this, and this cannot, however, change the fact that Bulgarian democracy.. because every democracy is a mechanism for rotation in power, Bulgarian democracy, in order to be able to regenerate and normalize, we had to be able to see the ultimate change of government from the long-standing management of Boyko Borisov. That, including he himself, at times admitted it. Perhaps we should have given them a little more time because many new people have entered parliament. These very new people in parliament have lacked political culture and experience and professionalism, and have gone on for personal reasons, because this is in any case part of what has happened, and we think that this experience, professional, personal, generational, can somehow be jumped that by going to another election and putting another set of people who are about to start, this will somehow help someone. No, it will not help Bulgarian democracy. It's just that maybe we should have had a lot more patience than if we thought politically. If we were thinking in terms of how political time is going, not criminal time. Unfortunately, in Bulgarian politics, the time of criminal justice continues is too important because we were unable to correct our justice. So it is normal to want the President's resignation, yes, it is normal to want as part of democratic instruments the resignation of the government, yes, it is normal to criticize us that we should have been more dialogical, and not what you are doing leads to no solution. And if we fail to look at the need for a solution in essence beyond the tactical play, it will get worse just as described by Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, who today wins the prize of Vratchok, I say with respect. So that's what I want to tell you. I would like to thank President Nikola Minchev for showing that the change of generations in Bulgarian politics can produce figures. I will not use superlatives, but he showed that people with character, people with class can enter Bulgarian politics. Of course, we are doing everything we can now to throw him and his likes out of it quickly, because we continue to be rooted in the past and not be able to look forward in the same way that yesterday we did everything we could to burn any opportunity for a solution on the subject of Macedonia, just to make artificial breathing of the ITN. In the same way, what we are doing now is to burn the possibility of slow, difficult, not particularly beautiful, but evolution within the Bulgarian political system, pushing this Parliament towards an early end before the processes in it have taken place and going to what Mr. Kostadinov described badly, it is ill thought out, that is bad advice. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your excellent work. [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u288	First line, Mr. Bikov, then Mr. Cholakov. If there's no other group, I'll give it to Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, one clarification. Our parliamentary group will support the virtually no-confidence vote against the President of Parliament and not because of him himself, and I will repeat it to you because of Mr. Kiril Petkov we will support him, only for him. Next time we will support the vote of no confidence against Mr. Petkov's government. I agree with many of the things that you have said, but I would remind you that just one year ago here it was not necessary to talk to certain political forces....to not be told a good day..to not be told to them, not to join a coalition. It's been a while since then. You chose a prime minister who illegally arrested the leader of the largest opposition force, and now you're looking for our support almost for a way out. We have an idea of a way out of this situation and you know we have ideas. I will tell you what it is: Bulgaria to choose a normal person as prime minister, a person who can conduct a dialogue... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u290	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u291	...a person who is communicative, a person who does not lie to Europe and Bulgaria about going and going, a person who does not lie that Katya Zaharieva, Tomislav Donchev and Daniel Mitov will support him for Macedonia without talking to them, a person who usually avoids lying and when he lies, is uncomfortable, at least one. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[(Applause and cheering:]] Here's a way out of this situation, but you're gonna have to... [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u292	Mr. Bikov, please hold back a little, calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u293	Yeah, I'll calm down. It was an exhibition, now we're going to make a finale. The final is well-meaning. [[(Replies from]] We will be willing to make sacrifices in the name of restoring political dialogue, however, you too must be ready for sacrifices from now on. To explain to your voters that this way the state cannot continue because it cannot continue in this way and the first step is to overthrow the government, not to overthrow the President of Parliament. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u294	Yeah, well, it's a different sequence, so you sorted them out. Second line Mr. Cholakov, third line Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u295	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! As Mr. Bikov said, we agree with most of the things you say, and they're good, but, as you know, they're already late. Those things you should have said in the previous two parliaments, but unfortunately, we've come as far as we are. Thank you for saying that this is currently the most normal democratic procedure. Yeah, that's right. I thank you because in a private conversation you have said a thought that is true that Parliament exists because of the opposition, not because of the government and that the opposition is the corrective of the government. If there were no opposition, maybe we'd degenerate into a dictatorship very easily. The problem is there, Mr. Ivanov, that we have the feeling that no coup is taking place, of course, because we are in a democratic procedure, but that since the beginning of the forty-seventh Parliament a moving dictatorship is being established. How many times has this National Assembly violated the Constitution? How many times did you, your fellow lawyers, squirm when they voted unconstitutional texts with full awareness that they were unconstitutional? How many times have we broken the laws? Do you remember this legal agony during the vote on the API decision? It was grief, and you did it, and that's dictatorship. It is thus established by parliamentary means, so it has been established in one other eras by parliamentary means. We all saw trends, they tendencies are clear, this government cannot remain in power if it does not establish terror. I want you to hear this thing very clearly. The project for the Bulgarian "Magnitski" is terror, KKCONPI "What you have decided for KKCONPI" is terror. A man who has provenly committed illegal arrests, you say to us: "He is the man!" And at the moment, believe me, we are stopping the continuation of the country's slip in the direction of terror and dictatorship, because there is no other way for this government to remain, so thank you for your speech indeed. I'm sure you understand this thing and you'll find a way to help stop this moving dictatorship that someone is trying to establish in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u296	Mr. Nenkov has the floor for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers gentlemen, fellow Members! Mr. Ivanov, eh, why didn't you say those words a year ago, about a year ago? For this concern that you have shown from this tribune, and not just today, but the last few weeks, what is next for the state? I'll tell you my vision. When the Forty-fourth National Assembly ended and GERB's mandate as a ruling party, if you didn't play revolutionary then, if the state had then come to such a reasonable path to the elections, not early, but regular ones, then maybe this smooth transition would have happened. And let me tell you something: yes, of course, a party must be ready to be ruling, and be opposition. GERB was ready to be one, to be opposition, only do not expect us to now look for a way out of the crisis that you have actually caused. And I ask you very much, these words, this concern to remember it, because in front of Bulgaria there are very important steps to take. We are moving towards early parliamentary elections and we really need to form a government that finally has its dialogue, to seek compromises, not to illegally arrest the leader of its opposition, not to talk about mafias, not to insult the voters of these parties. As long as this continues, believe me, not another early elections, and many more will be there and the Bulgarian voters will not forgive us. I beg you very much, Mr. Ivanov, remember what you said, if not, we will remind you of it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u298	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u299	Colleagues, I remember what I said and I remember, for example, what I said at the opening of the first of these three short parliaments. I was talking about dialogue there, too. Maybe gradually, seeing how things are going politically, these things have become clearer in what I say, and I have become more of a priority. As another classic used to say, Volen Siderov: Everyone has the right to develop, so you have the right to tell me that I should have said these things not today, but a year ago. When I listen to you here in recent months, I often think about some things that perhaps should have been said by GERB some time ago, but I am not sure that all this leads us somewhere. I'm not looking for your support for anything concrete, I'm just addressing the entire people's representation before we jump into the abyss we've dug before, let's actually think about where we're going. Everyone will make their decisions, but a little interpersonal emotions, vendettas, mambia that are organized here... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, yeah, 'cause that's what it looks like. ...personal insults and so on make our eyes a little blurry and it bothers me. It happens to everyone, but somehow we have to try to get a closer look. I don't think I have the right to wave my finger at anyone, to teach, I just share my concern because I think it's important. We each had to have a lot more patience and eat our own bag of salt. We didn't do that job. Neither you who so far were opposition nor we who were ruling, because now we are already opposition and, thank God, that Mr. Cholakov remembered that I said that the parliament existed because of the opposition while I was ruling, so now that you are ruling, I can recall it. This is part of democracy, but sometimes by democratic means there are coups, as you well said. The question is really to find a solution to the crisis, and I don't see that we are doing, and we will go to another barren election that will make things much worse. Who, when, what he said and should have said it is certainly appropriate, but this does not change the fact that the choices we are going to have have have absolutely no prospect of producing anything better than what we have, in all our criticism of him. That fact has to be central and from there we have to think about everything else, I think, with all my modesty. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u300	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The last person to make a statement is Miroslav Ivanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, colleagues! Mr. President Nikola Minchev, this point, is an excellent example of political cynicism. Why do I qualify him like that? Because the reasons of the request are a side and a half, and none of the applicants - 120 people in number - came forward to essentially argue the request for resignation. Why didn't you come out? Because there is no reasonable argument to ask for Mr. Minchev's resignation. He's been following the rules more than anyone in this room. You broke it once, which you confessed to, and you apologized to the colleagues you did it to. I had prepared a very long statement to contradict motives. There, you see. [[shows]] But it really doesn't make sense for me to do it. I will just say that yesterday's actions by Mr. Minchev have practically prevented the creation of another speculation regarding the topic....................North Macedonia.......................... We made the debate public and this allowed all Bulgarian citizens to hear the truth, the truth, which was confirmed twice by Minister Genchovska, namely that the Prime Minister did not conduct a policy other than the foreign ministry's policy. A few weeks ago, we were talking about the spirit of parliamentaryism. Parliamentism, fellow Members, is not the power of the majority. Parliamentism is contained in the debate, in the arguments, in morality and in voting on conscience. The stakes are high and today the stakes of each vote will be: vote for interests or vote for conscience and personal conviction. Mr. Minchev, you have the support of the parliamentary group. I wish you success and believe that if it comes to new elections, then we will appear together again and win them back for the second time. [[Applause from "We continue the Change" and shouts: "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u302	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line from Mr. Cholakov. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't stop Mr. Cholakov. He wants to say something important, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues have paid attention that we will now give right to the backrest, given that their time has run out, but let's let Mr. Ivanov answer that. Mr. Ivanov, if it has not become clear, everything I said earlier about the violations of the Constitution and the violations of the laws committed by this Parliament was carried out at the Presidency of Mr. Minchev. Mr. Minchev, who you all say is a brilliant lawyer, held meetings in which the National Assembly violated the Constitution and the laws with full consciousness, if he is a lawyer, that is so. [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u304	Please, colleagues! Mr. Ivanov will answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u305	I don't know if you remember at first when the government was elected, I said a few words. I said you graduated from Western universities, and I think I reminded you of what you didn't learn there or what you learned that you couldn't do. President of the National Assembly, who is voting on decisions that violate the Constitution and which violate the laws, in no European country can be President. What you could not understand is that the President of the National Assembly as a figure is the number one watchman of the law, colleagues. He is the embodiment of the law and he has no right even for his own party or parliamentary group to break the law. He's the barrage in front of legal arbitrariness. And if he can't do that, then he can't be chairman, you know? With all due respect! With all due respect! Maybe that was the problem that Mr. Minchev was putting to the vote decisions that were abusing, and he had to stop them. He should have said to the Prime Minister, "Don't! Stop! You're destroying the country! You didn't, and I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u306	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. You're entitled to the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, I didn't need those three minutes extra time, but I still have to answer that. I do not remember and have not understood the Constitutional Court to have pronounced even one act adopted by this National Assembly that contradicts the Constitution. If you know, I'm calling you again, go out and say it. There aren't any! The claims of unconstitutionality and such actions are only in your mind and in your opinion. So, to repeat something else: Bulgarian citizens remember, Bulgarian citizens see and Bulgarian citizens can recognize the lie, so again, if there are elections, we will appear and win them for the second time. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u308	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? In any case, only the Greb have time to speak. I can't see. That's why I'm putting an end to this discussion. According to established practice, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minchev. [[(Deputies of the.. We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Presidents of Parliamentary Groups and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! It was an honor, it is and will continue to be, first of all, that I entered the National Assembly here, in the temple of Bulgarian statehood. And even more honored, which you gave me on December 3rd, is to make me first among equals. I purposely run away from the words to take the lead because I believe that if the President believes that he is in charge and that if the slang-calling parliamentary chief is living as a boss, he is not for this position. At the post that you have given me the honour to hold and I am still in charge, we will see for how long, I have always sought to respect all MPs, whether they are from the ruling coalition or from the opposition, and I believe you appreciate it. And in today's so focused discussion where the criticism of me was still less, to call it, I think you really appreciate it. I've always tried to listen to you, to give you the floor, which I've sometimes drawn on the anger of coalition partners, and Mr. Svilensky mentioned earlier. Such is my institutional understanding and education, too, that we here are all chosen by the people. We like it. We don't like it. That's what the people have decided. We're here representing him. I also wish sometimes our parliamentary group was not with 67 members, but with 137 members, but it does not matter that the Bulgarian people have decided so, that is all. That's why I think we should always be dialogueal, and I'm trying to do that. As for this tolerance, in addition to criticism from the coalition, I happen to have one person from the administration of the National Assembly once telling me that I am too good for the standards to which this institution is accustomed. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I'm, unfortunately, not quite sure this is about applause, because it's both nice and sad. That was a quote. On the grounds on which my resignation is requested, I will not stop, others have given them time. I've entered into a similar argument in a previous procedure, and this time I'm going to abstain, and it still applies to me. We all know that the real reason to ask for my resignation is the same, which is behind the vote of mistrust next week. There is a new majority in the Chamber. I also entered politics in the National Assembly with the desire to change a model that was in power until now. The newly formed majority in parliament not only does not bring change but will firmly preserve this model. And in a parliament like this, maybe it's even better if I don't be the chairman. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Because it turns out that those who were about to disappear now want to scratch me. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And no matter what happens at the vote that we will be holding in a moment, I reiterate that it has been an honor. And if we have to choose a new president, I wish he would try or she would be at least as objective or at least try to be as objective or objective as I have tried. And how successful I am, you know. Thank you. [[(Deputies of the.. We continue the Change, BSP for Bulgaria.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! The rules of the National Assembly did not allow me to speak, but I still want you to know that you have my full support. We are going to vote on the submitted draft decision. He was introduced, but to read it anyway. The draft decision reads: supplicates Nikola Minchev from the position of President of the National Assembly. I'll wait long enough for everyone to vote. Vote 239 MPs: 125, against 113, abstention 1. The draft decision has been approved by the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] Mr. Angov asked for the floor first. I'm sorry, I just didn't understand the procedure, Mr. Angov. [[Reply.]] Revoting? Normally, there's no need for motivation, but tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You see, did you feel the feeling? [[noise and lines]] What's it like to vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u312	Mr. Angov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u313	...wrongly just for their puppeteers? Remember that feeling. It's your first time today. Remember the feeling and consider whether to vote again in the same way as the revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u314	I don't get it. You want a re-vote? Say it more clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u315	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Please give the MPs a second chance to leave with a clear conscience and re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u316	Got it. It's a re-vote. I don't think there's a chance that the 240th MP will show up, but a minute is a minute. We'll wait until it's done according to the rules. Vote 239 MPs: 125, against 113, abstention 1. For a negative vote, Mr. Mitev. [[Heckling]] Mr. Mitev didn't have a statement. There were lines, I confirm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today is a memorable moment. Today has become clear and I have nothing to expose any of this tribune. All voters can see that they vote with GERB and DPS. This is for all the voters of ARCHER. You vote with GERB and DPS! Congratulations! Welcome to the Mafia! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u318	For the second negative vote, Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I voted against Nikola Minchev's resignation as President of the National Assembly because I am against and have always opposed the cruelest unwritten but always implementing law from the Bulgarian policy, which reads: "First goes the worthy." For 30 years, different political formations have been throwing accusations at each other, sometimes they are in coalitions, sometimes they are in opposition, sometimes they fall apart, and sometimes they get together, but always the victims in their disputes fall those who have the least fault for them. Today this happened to Mr. Nikola Minchev and we have no reason to wonder why politics is considered dirty work when it does not allow clean people. Now, in order not to be so black-eyed, I think for Mr. Minchev this is not the end. This is the beginning of politics. I hope more people like him can see among us both outside and here and here and in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, there are difficult days and weeks ahead of our nation and in the dialogue that will inevitably take place whether here, whether in the election campaign, I think we should be inspired by the behavior and the manner of speaking of Mr. Nikola Minchev. Thank you. [[We continue the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria, and the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u320	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Third negative vote, Mr. Kosturkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u321	Colleagues, I hardly need to say why I voted against this ugly situation today. Nikola Minchev is one of the most dignified and most diagnostic people in this room not now, but in the new history of Bulgarian parliamentaryism at all. However, I can say one thing about this debate and this vote was a necessary fact. From this debate and from this vote we have seen two things. We saw the hug between the DPS and the rebirth. We saw the hug between ISN and GERB. And something for which I would like to thank Mr. Konstantinov, and I do so sincerely... thank you for showing to the right side of the middle column, the right side of my country that there will be no second government within this Parliament. We're going to an election. Elections that will be a purgatory for our parliament. I see a lot of people in this middle column that will just be cleared. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u322	Thank you, Mr. Turtle. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor to thank Nikola Minchev for the really well done work. He managed to lead this parliament in the most diagnostic professional way he could. Today he really did fall victim not to his activities, not to his actions, but to the fact that at the moment a coalition that is formed by DPS, ARCE, GERB and people who remained in "There is such a people" decided that regardless of its professional qualities they would vote against. But I want to reassure those who are looking at the moment when we started with the office, we highlighted the big schemes related to the Bulgarian Development Bank. [[DPS lines: "What are we interested in right now? "]] When we won the elections, we had a coalition partner who is very dependent, but the path is one.. change comes and step by step Bulgaria will be different. Thank you. [[We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u324	That's what we've done with work on this point. It was an honor, Mr. Minchev, that we worked together. The road continues. Mrs. Desislava Atanasova requested the Chairmanial Council. I propose that we get together now under the leadership of Mr. Ivanov, as he will be acting under the Staff Regulations until the election of a new President. Thank you. I'll give you 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u325	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. The next item on the agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2022 Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. I'll give you the floor to read the report and then access.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u326	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. At a meeting held on 9 June 2022, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. The meeting was attended by Asen Vassilev Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance; Professor Boris Grozdanov "President of the Fiscal Council; representatives of trade unions, employers' and professional organizations and others. In relation to the conduct of a review by the Committee on Budget and Finance for the Compliance of the Draft with the Requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and in view of the short time limits for examining the Bill, Minister Vassilev expressed orally the opinion of the Ministry of Finance that the legislative changes relating to the equivalence as tobacco products of the electronic cigarette liquid containing nicotine, with a view to the taxation of it with excise duty and the introduction of the regime of persons dealing with such liquid constitute a technical regulation within the meaning of art. 1, Paragraph 1 (e) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v (v (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v (v (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v 7, § 4, under which the notification procedure does not stop the procedure for adopting the bill. Minister Vassilev presented the bill, stressing that it provides for an urgent package of anti-crisis measures aimed at reducing the negative consequences of increasing fuel and energy prices, respectively increasing inflation pressure on the most affected groups of society and business. Macroeconomic perspectives The updated macroeconomic forecast for 2022 of the Ministry of Finance reflects the current development of the national economy, the changed assumptions for the international environment, as well as the proposed anti-crisis package. Gross domestic product In 2022 Bulgaria's real GDP growth is expected to rise to 2.9%, which is a decrease compared to the forecast, with which the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria (CBRB) for 2022 was adopted, and is due to the changed economic prospects caused by the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine. At the same time, growth expectations are slightly increased compared to spring forecast by 0.3% due to the reported good performance of the economy in the first quarter. Labour market For 2022, the number of employees is expected to grow by 1.7% and compared to the previous forecast for the CBRBS for 2022, employment growth is increased by 0.7 BP, the main reason for this is the refugee flow, part of which is expected to be integrated on the Bulgarian labour market. In line with positive employment dynamics, the unemployment rate is expected to decrease to 4.5% in 2022 and is lower than the previous forecast (5%). The nominal increase in labour income will remain high. In 2022, the nominal growth of the compensation per employee was estimated at 9,2%. The indicator is revised in upward direction (with about 1 p.m.) in relation to the forecast used for the development of the DSBRB for 2022 Inflation In line with the change of foreign exchange rate assumptions and international commodity prices, as well as the update of data on the Harmonised Consumer Price Index by April, expectations for consumer price dynamics in the country are for higher inflation in 2022. This is due to higher than expected food and non-energy non-food prices as a result of stronger effects than raw materials and energy carriers. The observed increase in oil prices and non-energy raw materials is expected to slow down in the second half of the year and the increase in consumer prices will continue to accelerate until mid-year, then will begin to slow down, with inflation at the end of 2022 reaching 11.6%. A leading contribution to this will be food, the appreciation of which will speed up to 23.9% on an annual basis in December. Essential contribution will also be made by the components of underlying inflation due to the expected secondary effects of the accelerated appreciation of energy carriers and difficulties in supply chains. Services prices will rise by 9.8% at the end of 2022 and non-energy non-food goods by 7.1%. Energy commodities will also contribute positively, with the rise in transport fuel prices expected to slow to 13.9% at the end of the year. Average annual inflation in 2022 is forecast to be 11.9%. Physical objectives and parameters As the fiscal framework takes into account the impact of the macroeconomic environment, as a result of the updated macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, a change of the revenue framework under the Consolidated fiscal programme (CFP) for this year is also expected. The net impact on the CFP deficit of the envisaged revenue and expenditure measures in the update is neutral to the deficit target set as a percentage of the forecast GDP for 2022. A negative balance of 4.1 per cent of projected GDP is envisaged. The expected net increase in CFP revenues for 2022 amounts to 1,645.2 million. BGN, which represents 1.1 per cent of the projected GDP. The net cost effect of the CFP for 2022 of the amendments proposed in the Bill amounts to 1,973,3 million. BGN, which represents 1,3 per cent of the projected GDP. Revenues The revised macroeconomic forecast, the implementation of revenue on 30 April 2022, reported by the Ministry of Finance and the assessment of the effects of planned changes in tax legislation and the tax measures applied, leads to a need for changes in revenue estimates. Additional revenue totaling 2,175.1 million has been estimated. BGN, as from the value added tax "620.9 million" lv.; from excise duty.64 million lv.; of dividends.. 213.5 million lv.; from customs duties and customs duties; 76,9 million lv.; of other taxes and non-taxable income lv. and according to the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan, 1 057.4 million. lv. As anti-crisis measures, a number of reliefs have been made at tax rates, as well as the elimination of some of the tax rates on a number of products. The net net effect of these reductions, according to the Ministry of Finance, is a reduction in tax revenue by 529.9 million. BGN, with a value added tax of 140,9 million. BGN, excise duty - 159 million lv. and income tax of natural persons.. 230 million lv. The reduction in natural persons' income tax revenue is due to the planned increase in tax credit for working parents and its use on a quarterly basis and not to be deducted at the end of the year. The main anti-crisis measures provided for in the Bill are: - exemption from excise duty of electricity, liquefied petroleum gas and natural gas; - the introduction of a reduced VAT rate of 9% for central heating supplies from 1 July 2022; - the introduction of a reduced VAT rate of 9% for natural gas supplies from 1 July 2022; - the introduction of a zero VAT rate for the delivery of bread from 1 July 2022; - the elimination of the temporary measure relating to the pandemic for the application of the reduced VAT rate for beer and wine as part of restaurant and catering services from 1 July 2022; - increase the amount of tax benefits for children from 1 January 2022; - extending the scope of Decision of the Council of Ministers No 592/2018 on the terms and conditions for the payments of authorising officers under contracts by introducing the rules in the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code in order to encourage taxable persons to pay their unpaid public claims; - increasing the excise duty of cigarettes, smoking tobacco, cigars and cigars, heated tobacco products and bongs, as well as introducing an excise rate for liquids in electronic cigarettes from 1 July 2022. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1. Updating the July 2022 pensions and implementing a new mechanism to improve the adequacy of pensions from October 2022 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The net effect on the budget of the implementation of the measure requires an additional 1, 386,5 million. lv. For the budget of state social security and 65,6 million lv. for the health insurance of pensioners. A comprehensive package of measures aimed at improving the adequacy of pensions paid by state social security and the Teacher's Pension Fund has been proposed with the IDC for 2022. 2. Compensation of end-users of fuels. Natural persons who use gasoline and gas (diesel) for their own use, without liquefied petroleum gas (LPG or propane-butan) and natural gas (methane) supplements. The compensation amounts to BGN 0.25/litre for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2022. The budgetary effect for 2022 is a loss of 150 million. lv. 3. In relation to the updated national macro-project, the spring economic forecast of the European Commission and the availability of official reporting data, as well as unforeseen expenditure from the EU budget due to the international exceptional developments in recent months, a change in the amount of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the EU budget for 2022 is envisaged, with an increase of 156,6 million. lv. 4. For the servicing of upcoming public debt claims, including the maturity in the first quarter of 2023 of bonds issued on international financial markets, additional resources from debt sources need to be secured in 2022, with the budgetary effect of around 3.0 billion. lv. This also requires a change in the limit on the maximum amount of the new government debt, which can be borne in the year of 7.3 billion. lv. At 10.3 billion. BGN, as well as a change of the limit for maximum amount of government debt at the end of 2022 of 35.5 billion. lv. At 38,5 billion. leva. In view of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. State debt is expected to reach a level of 38.5 billion. lv. or 25,6% of GDP forecast for 2022 In order to ensure the possibility for the Council of Ministers to issue state guarantees in 2022 for funding with a loan resource for two companies in the energy system, a total resource of 532 million is provided. EUR (for Bulgargaz "EAD" is respectively 150 million. EUR on the suspension of natural gas supplies by the main supplier of the company and the need for emergency provision of alternative supplies in order to ensure the continuity of gas supplies to the country and to the "Bulgartransgaz" EAD amounting to 382 million. EUR of three projects). This is related to an increase in the restriction under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. At 1,800,1 million. leva. A discussion was held on the bill, which included the following opinions and requests: People's representative Petar Chobanov expressed concern about the lack of a clear majority when adopting the state budget update for 2022 and about the lack of valuable reforms in it. He advocated that there was a risk for the implementation of tax and social security revenues as a whole during the year. This year, the rate of execution in relation to the plan is lower than last year. In response to the concerns expressed by the representatives of the employers' organizations Vasil Velev (AICB), Miroslav Karakasev (CRB) and Stanislav Popdonchev (BIA) about the lack of a specific commitment in the update of the budget for compensation of the high prices of electricity for non-bit consumers, the national representative Venko Sabrutev said that the state will not leave the business without compensation, and the legislative changes in this direction have passed at first reading in the Energy Commission of the National Assembly. The bill aims to introduce a mechanism by which the over-profits of energy companies are collected in a fund. "Secure of the power system" and hence these funds will be used to compensate non-bit consumers. The representatives of employers' organisations expressed reservations about the lack of reforms in the budget update, as well as the lack of focus in anti-crisis measures, resulting in unnecessary promotion of consumption and back-up of inflation, and inefficient spending of public resources. According to Mr. Velev, one third of the households should be supported. He advocated that education money should be increased, including preschool money. According to Mr. Karakashev and Mr. Popdonchev should not drop the reduced VAT rate for low-alcoholic drinks "wine and beer" until the end of the year. Moreover, Mr. Popdonchev advocated that the reduced VAT rate for foods suitable for babies and young children, as well as for baby diapers and hygiene articles, should be of constant effect. In response to the concerns expressed by the representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry, the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry will not be able to apply the new excise rates from 1 July due to technical operational time to register the new prices of cigarettes, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev agreed to extend the deadline on 1 September 2022. The Chairman of the Agricultural Academy Dr. Martin Banov insisted that an additional transfer to the Agricultural Academy of 5 500,0 thousand should be provided for in the update of the state budget for 2022. BGN to achieve a fair remuneration for employees in it, comparable to remuneration in higher schools. The President of the National Association of Municipalities Silvia Georgieva proposed in art. 1, para. 5, t. 6 District of the public sector governance and optimization to create a new row 6.3 for structural reforms in the municipal administration with funding of 100 million. lv. At the expense of the 297 million envisaged. lv. t uc 6.2. In addition, the State-sponsored State-sponsored State-owned administration's resources should be increased by a minimum of 30,3 million. lv. in order to preserve and develop the expertise of their employees and to retain them in the municipal administration. Municipalities for street lighting and kindergartens, cribs, kitchens and social services shall be included to persons entitled to the refund of electricity excise duty. The Chairman of the National Branch Syndicate "High Education and Science" at the SSC Associate Professor Dr. Engineer Lilyana Valcheva stressed that 20 million. lv. for additional funding to increase the remuneration of academic staff in state universities should be granted to them in accordance with the procedure laid down in the National Agreement between the Council of Rectors, the national trade unions represented and the Ministry of Education and Science. The representative of KT Ms. Vanya Grigorova expressed in lack of support for the bill as a major argument pointed out the lack of a policy for increasing wages. In this sense, its demands are to increase the salaries in the public administration and, in particular, the employees in the administration subordinate to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, namely: the Labour Inspection, the Social Assistance Agency, the Employment Agency. According to her, funds should also be provided to address the problems of urban transport in the capital so that employees can receive their salaries in full and timely. The opinion of the Fiscal Council was presented by Mr. Lyubomir Datsov, who pointed out that the government should step by step start mastering the increase in spending and it would not be bad to have fiscal consolidation. The government should implement a strategy with steps to bring budgetary parameters closer to compliance with fiscal rules. According to him, there is currently no strategy to return to the established level of state spending of 40% of GDP. The fiscal board is concerned about the accelerated increase in running costs, which leads to a change in the balance sheet of the cost structure. In addition, work on capital and programme budgeting reform needs to be strengthened, which will lead to better mechanisms for planning, programming and implementation of public finances. As far as the measures proposed in the Bill are concerned, they are purely compensation, not anti-inflation. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received:......................... 11 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. Mr. Chairman, I propose on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted the following persons to the Chamber: Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Dobrin Pinzhurov and Svetla Kostova Director of the Department of State Treasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u327	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. My fellow Members, before I put this proposal to the vote, I have one request. I understand your excitement, but we have four more reports to hear. I'm asking those who have to have conversations, to do it on the sidelines. Please vote on admission to the House of Those Persons. I see that there are more MPs in this House. I do not know why you do not vote for the admission of those persons. Vote 116 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 2. Please invite the persons who were proposed by Mr. Karimansky. The next report belongs to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its extraordinary meeting, held on 10 June 2022, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria (CBRB) for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Stanovishti were presented by the Fiscal Council, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria (KNSB), the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRB), the Bulgarian Industrial Association (BIA), the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) and the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria (AICB). The following discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Ganev, Hasan Ademov, Iskren Arabadzhiev, Denitsa Sacheva, Elisaveta Belobradova, Georgi Georgiev and Iliana Zhekova. Lazar Lazarov and Rositsa Spasova answered the questions asked. During the discussion The draft was supported by the MPs from the parliamentary group of "We are continuing the change," "BSP for Bulgaria", "Democratic Bulgaria" and "There is such a people." After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 12 votes for.. 8 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u329	That was your resume. Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. The next report belongs to the Energy Commission. Which of the Energy Commission will present the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. At its extraordinary meeting on 9 June 2022, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Iva Petrova Deputy Minister, Danail Nikolov Deputy Minister, Momchil Vanov Director of the Department of Finance and Budget at BEH, Lyudmil Yotsov Executive Director of Bulgargaz The amendments and additions of the State Budget Act for 2022 in part........ were presented by Mr. Danail Nikolov, who introduced the members of the Commission to the main amendments in his portfolio. In the short and long term, in order to ensure continuity of natural gas supplies, the Ministry of Energy outlines the need to use a loan resource with a state guarantee in the update of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 for two companies in the energy system of a total amount of 532 million. Euros. The requested loan funding for Bulgargaz-EAD amounted to 150 million respectively. EUR and is related to the discontinued supply of natural gas by the main supplier of the company and the need for urgent provision of alternative supplies in order to ensure the continuity of gas supplies to the country. The funding for Bulgartransgaz is at the amount of 382 million EAD. EUR on three projects - Extension of the capacity of PGH Chiren, Intersystem gas connection Bulgaria.Serbia, as well as the obligations of Bulgartransgaz.JSC in connection with a legislative proposal of the European Commission amending Regulation (EU) 2017/1938 on measures to ensure the security of gas supply and of Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 on conditions for access to natural gas transmission networks published on 23 March 2022. The projects carried out by Bulgartransgaz "EAD" are of common interest to the European Union for the construction of key cross-border energy infrastructure as well as for the storage of natural gas in the country. The measure supports the key energy sector for Bulgaria and the region in the context of the complicated international situation and policies of the European Union to provide alternative energy sources and routes, as well as to increase the volumes of natural gas storage. In order to ensure the possibility for the Council of Ministers to issue state guarantees in 2022 on loans to finance the projects described above, a new Article 70a shall be set up in the draft of the JDC for 2022. Exemption from excise duty of electricity, liquefied petroleum gas and natural gas is envisaged. The measure aims to support businesses and citizens, consumers of electricity, liquefied petroleum gas and natural gas, in relation to the unexpected significant rise in prices of energy products caused by increased demand on a European and global scale. The measure will be implemented by preparing a notification to the European Commission and changes to the Law on excises and tax warehouses. The Draft Law proposes the introduction of a reduced VAT rate of 9% for supplies of central heating and natural gas. The proposal relates to the need to mitigate the impact of high energy prices on households and businesses, in particular on the most vulnerable, while avoiding disruption of supply. The measure is intended to apply from 1 July 2022. In the course of the discussion were the MPs Rositsa Kirova and Zhecho Stankov. After the discussion, a vote was held on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, which ended with the following results:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of the vote, the Energy Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft Law amending and supplementing the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u331	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 9 June 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Todor Vassilev, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, and Mrs. Daniela Ushtova, Head of team in the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zheny Nacheva and Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Yavor Penchev, with Ms. Nacheva paying attention as follows: It foresees an urgent package of anti-crisis measures aimed at reducing the negative consequences of increasing fuel and energy prices, respectively increasing inflation pressure on the most affected groups of society and business. The aim is to support Bulgarian citizens and businesses in an unprecedented crisis caused by military actions in Ukraine and to mitigate the shocks caused by the high prices of energy carriers and raw materials for vulnerable groups of society and the economy of Bulgaria. Mr. Yavor Penchev added that funds of 50 million should be provided. lv. to increase the capital of the city of Sofia at the expense of the central budget. This will allow the necessary additional attracted financial resources to be provided. He noted that the increase in budget expenditure for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2022 amounted to BGN 3 949 350 000. The additional funds needed by the end of the year for the normal functioning of the repair activities, above the established budget for the TRP, amount to BGN 2 784 593 000. Main repair and construction of infrastructure sites are 1 161 656 000 BGN. The budget of the National Construction Control Directorate for 2022 amounts to BGN 3 101 000. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which notes that municipalities are not included in the envisaged package of anti-crisis measures aimed at reducing the negative consequences of increasing fuel and energy prices, respectively increasing inflation pressure on the most affected groups of society and business. On these grounds, priority proposals for increasing the main budgetary relations of municipal budgets with the central budget and others under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 are presented in the opinion. During the discussion took part and asked questions to Mr. Yavor Penchev and Mr. Todor Vassilev the MPs: Georgi Georgiev, Yordan Terziyski, Petya Avramova, Tsvetan Enchev, Ivan Totev, Nikolay Nankov, Snezhanka Trayanska and Nastimir Ananiev, which issues mainly concerned the way of financing of municipalities and their projects, as well as different budget items related to the TRP and in house procedures. The questions thus asked were answered in detail by Mr. Yavor Penchev and Mr. Todor Vassilev. National Representative Nastimir Ananiev asked Mr. Yavor Penchev to provide the Commission with the contracts for 999 million. lv. old debts; 412 million lv. old debts and 998 million. lv. new activities by making the corresponding breakdown. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 8 votes, 7 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 08.06.2022, should not be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u333	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The next report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Mr. Martin Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u334	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u335	What do you mean, wait a minute?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u336	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u337	Okay, come on in, though I don't know what...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u338	I consulted with my colleague Nankov, because we were at the Commission, what Mr. Nastimir Ananiev finished is not in line with reality. The report was not adopted by the Commission "8 votes" for "7 votes against" but the Commission does not propose to be adopted at first reading. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u339	You haven't been listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u340	I listened very well. How was the last sentence? [[Heckling]] He's not suggesting, that's right. Okay, I apologize if he said no with a big no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u341	It's your fault. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. It's like in the Plovdiv Municipal Council you're taking the job a little. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies ministers, honourable colleagues, in summary ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. At its extraordinary meeting on 13 June 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Rositsa Velkova. The Ministry of Innovation and Growth and the Ministry of Economy and Industry supported the Bill and said they will continue to implement the policies of the ministries with the revenues laid down in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. During the discussion the people representative Iskren Mitev made the statement that the current updates of the state budget, including this, were made without a preliminary medium-term budget forecast. The Ministry of Finance added that this is because the medium-term budget forecasts per year are two - in April and before examining the state budget for the next calendar year. The President of the Commission Martin Dimitrov asked why the derogation for lifting the threshold for compulsory registration under the Law on Value Added Tax of 100 000 BGN takes between 6 to 8 months and when a reply is expected from the European Commission. The Ministry of Finance has clarified that the derogation period is 9 months and the final decision to implement the Council of the European Union is expected to be received in November. And on a question of the Vice-President of the Commission Alexander Ivanov replied that there will be an opportunity for deregistered companies left with turnover below the threshold for registration. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u343	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. That concludes the reports of the committees and now according to art. 76, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The bill should be presented by a member of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Finance Minister, will you present the bill? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u344	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The bill was repeatedly discussed both publicly and in committees. The main accents are three. Firstly, we have a dramatically changed economic situation in relation to the situation in which we adopted the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The war in Ukraine has put a number of challenges ahead of the economies of both the European Union and the world as a whole. These challenges are linked to broken supply routes, significantly higher prices of energy sources and greater uncertainty of their receipt, as well as significantly higher prices of foodstuffs, starting from the grain and down the entire food chain. As a result, the update takes into account these effects and puts changes in the macro-parameters of the budget: reduced growth, growth decreased to 2.9% on an annual basis and increased inflation to 11.9% in the way it is calculated by Eurostat. The main points in the budget are related to the anti-crisis measures that have been envisaged and which were presented by the government, some of them are aimed at remaining more income in people and companies and are related to a reduction of a number of tax and excise rates, mostly at regulated prices on the energy market, as well as the VAT on bread as the main food product that the country's citizens use. In addition, tax credit for working families is increased, and this tax credit starts to be paid every three months, not once a year, as it has been so far. The rest of the anti-crisis measures are related to providing more funds to support the most heavily affected groups. It has already been discussed and was adopted by the National Assembly at first reading the increase in pensions, this increase needs a transfer from the state budget, which is set in this budget. In addition, there are increased funds to support farmers in order to reduce the price increase that can be expected in the case of the higher fertilisers and costs that these producers have. Last but not least, there is a measure envisaged, which is 0.25. for each litre of petrol, propane-butan, methane and diesel for personal consumption, which would reduce, would partly compensate for the increase of fuels that all Bulgarian citizens see and are expected to continue on the basis of what we see as prices on the international market. The additional revenue amounts to more than 2 billion. BGN, with the lower taxes deducted from them and the total revenue of 1 billion. 645 million. lv. The budget balance is preserved at 4.1% of gross domestic product and there are several measures in the Transitional and Final Provisions, which are mainly related to the change in tax laws and the ease of business work. The only other thing that is enshrined in the Bill and which is of a systemic nature and needs careful assessment of the MPs is an increase in the debt ceiling. This waged increase is not required by additional expenditure on this budget, it is based on the idea that the maturity, which comes March next year, should be financed this year before the interest rates from the Federal Reserve from the European Central Bank, respectively, at which Bulgaria would issue debt. Our assessment is that if we issue debt this summer, compared to spring next year, the difference will most likely be almost one percentage point, which at a sum of 3 billion for the next 10 years is an essential cost for the budget that can be saved if the debt is issued this year. In case the National Assembly considers that there is no need to do this saving, it may leave the debt ceiling as in the original budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u345	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I am now opening a discussion on the submitted bill. Who wants to take the floor? [[Reply.]] Rumen Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Vassilev, honourable colleagues! In the short term, I would like to introduce you to a brief comparative analysis between the parameters of the Bulgarian budget and the parameters of the budget of the member states of the European Union and of the euro area, firstly, to make sure that we are moving in the right direction as fiscal policy and, secondly, to have a preliminary debate with our respected opponents, who in the media have been attacking the budget in recent days, because it is not European, that it creates a deficit or greater debt and so on. So, honourable Members, budget expenditure on gross domestic product in the European Union is currently around 54%. They were 51. 52% last year, due to the deepening of the problems we were just hoping to emerge from the problems of COVID-19, we entered the war in Ukraine, as a result of which the EU member states kept the high levels of distribution of gross domestic product, so between 53 and 55% of this product is being redistributed through the budgetary mechanisms of the EU member states. Even in individual countries of the European Union, this percentage is higher and if you combine an average of the countries of the European Union, according to the size of their economies, the levels of redistribution, as I told you, is from 45 to 50%. In this regard, Bulgaria's redistribution is currently 43.5%. I would like to remind you that in previous discussions here in Parliament, I have repeatedly paid attention to the fact that, unfortunately, Bulgaria has been maintaining redistribution for years, i.e. the share of the budget in gross domestic product is lower than the average for Europe. So the answer to the first question is whether it is a lot, or if it is low redistribution to gross domestic product is: Bulgaria is moving towards the average indicators of the European Union and the euro area and is below the levels of these countries of the European Union. The second indicator, which is important in assessing the direction of movement of the budget, is inflation. And while the redistribution of gross domestic product through the budget we meet all European standards, we also respond to inflation, but I will immediately say that the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian public, the Bulgarian households, we are all worried about the relatively high levels of inflation. Because the inflation at stake of 11.9% at the end of 2022 is possible to be realised, but at the moment it exceeds these limits. It remains to be hoped that, under certain conditions, we will be able to keep inflation within these limits. But there are many unknowns. For example, the price of energy carriers is going up again, because from that day on, Gazprom is reducing the supply of natural gas to Europe through Germany and other countries. The other day, we found out that due to an accident in one of the terminals in the state of Texas, the United States of America would reduce the export of liquefied natural gas by 17 percent. All of this will have an impact. And the biggest danger is that, due to external factors, it is possible that the challenges of inflation may be high through energy carriers. But at the moment, three days ago, inflation in Estonia at the end of May is 20%, in Lithuania In Germany, the motor of the European economy is more than 9%, in Spain "8.7." And a comparative example. In France the inflation rate is almost twice lower, even a little more than inflation in Bulgaria, but there is one feature. Since France recycled 40 billion euros from the budget back to business and to households, it placed a cap on electricity and natural gas and blocked price movements up through energy carriers, it managed to hold inflation at this time within 6%. Or in conclusion, in the euro area at the end of May inflation is 7.4%, in the European Union is 7.8%. That is, certain countries of the European Union, especially Baltic States, have significantly higher inflation than Bulgaria, but there are many countries in the European Union with lower inflation than Bulgaria. The correlation analysis shows that price movements are directly dependent on the movement of energy carriers and on the degree of dependence of the country concerned on imports of energy carriers. And since the Baltic and Bulgaria have a high degree of dependence and direct transfer of these prices, so the challenge with inflation is the highest. Thirdly, the indicator with a budget deficit. Bulgaria's budget deficit is set at 4.1% of gross domestic product. What does the budget deficit look like in the Member States of the European Union and in the euro area? Dear colleagues, at the end of May, the deficit in the euro area is the most developed countries of the European Union, the deficit is 5.1. And in the member states of the European Union, the euro area plus the non-member states is 4.7. Bulgaria's budget deficit is therefore one of the lowest in the European Union. For your information in Malta is negative 8%, in Greece is negative 7.4, in Latvia is negative 7.3, in Italy is negative 7.2, in Romania is negative 7.1, Spain is negative 6,9, Hungary is negative 6,8, France From this point of view in Bulgaria, the budget deficit is significantly lower than the average, including a lower deficit and compared to some of the most developed countries of the European Union. Of course, there are countries with lower deficits. A good example are Sweden and Denmark, which, although not members of the Eurozone, maintain debt against gross domestic product and both countries in exactly 37%, both sides exactly half a percentage of gross domestic product deficit in extremely aggressive, in the good sense of the word fiscal policy. So the experience of Scandinavian countries is important in this case. The next key indicator is government debt. Dear colleagues, Bulgaria's debt fell compared to last year due to the redemption of foreign debt and is currently slightly above 21%. This share of external debt is the last at EU level, as only Estonia has better positions on this indicator, only they have significantly higher inflation. How's it going? In the Eurozone, the debt to gross domestic product is 95.6 at the end of April. And in the European Union, i.e. the enlarged euro area plus non-euro area member states, 93% is the forecast for maintaining the share of debt in gross domestic product. We must make comparisons with other countries of the European Union, as sometimes the average indicators are misleading, although we are standing here at times, almost four and a half times better than the average indicator for the European Union. But for your information in Bulgaria is 21.5%, in Italy is 151%, seven times more, in Spain is 118%, in France is 113%, in Germany is 69%, in Greece is 186%, in Belgium is 107%, in Austria is 82% and, as I said, in Denmark and Sweden are 37%. The question arises how are things with government debt if Bulgaria is 21.5%, how are the other Eastern European partners? In Poland it is 55%, in the Czech Republic it is 42%, in Hungary it is 77.5, in Slovakia it is 63%, in Romania it is 64%, in Croatia it is 84% and in Slovenia it is 83%. Just for comparison, as the indicators we are talking about, honourable Members, should always be viewed in a system, as it is possible that an indicator may look good in one country, but the other indicators are negative in terms of trends. So the analysis of indicators in a system is mandatory. Because there are countries in Japan, the government debt to gross domestic product is 266%, as strange as it sounds to you. Of course, it is about the Japanese economy, which so far has no problem serving such debt. As are the United States, whose debt is 128% against gross domestic product. So Bulgaria had the highest debt in recent years in November 2021. In April 2022, 32.5 billion fell to 31 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, of which 26 billion long-term and 7 billion short-term debt. And the lowest in the last 15 years the government debt was 9 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with In conclusion, as regards debt. If we look at the budget deficit now, the level of debt, the changes set out in the budget update for the next two years, we can draw the definite conclusion: neither the budget deficit nor the public debt are a problem for the Republic of Bulgaria. Last but not least, the fifth indicator is forecast economic growth. And here we also have certain challenges, as countries such as Austria have bet 3.9, the Netherlands, now the Netherlands.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have set growth 2.9, which is a little bit more optimistic than the European Commission's assessment, which has generally set slightly lower levels of growth, including Bulgaria 2.1. We can see from the first quarter data that growth is slightly above 4%. Above the preliminary estimates is the increase in industrial production, increasing exports. So we have all the chances by the end of the year, according to the current economic circumstances, to achieve economic growth, which is about 3 and slightly above 3%, which would also correspond to trends. And at the end, in terms of debt issuance, a little over 2 billion. lv. for payments to be made in March 2023 Dear colleagues, this is an international practice. To recall that we had such discussions in 2015, when colleagues from GERB proposed for three years to withdraw a debt of 16 billion. BGN, of which 8 billion were approximately to cover old debts. This has been done by other countries as well. We had sharp discussions, disagreements, as the amount was very large and it was about a three-year period. But now it's about borrowing a few months earlier. I would like to say to you, honourable Members, that there is no specialist in any country or experts who can sign that a 100% interest rate will be 1% higher, 2% higher or 0.75. Without taking any particular risks, I'll tell you that interest will be higher in a few months, because that's what the Federal Reserve System of the Central Bank of the United States says, and that's what they're taking. This is what the European Central Bank said. They made an extraordinary meeting and raised interest by 0.25 and the Federal Reserve of the United States by 0.75. So the forecast that the Minister of Finance shared with you that the difference will most likely be 1% is very possible. Of course, it is the right of the National Assembly to say whether a certain risk can be taken, whether that risk is justified. At this stage it seems justified and it would save the state budget several million. This, of course, is the prerogative and responsibility of all Members of the National Assembly. In conclusion, using these five indicators, I wanted to introduce the MPs. As you can see, the data is from Eurostat and the World Bank. They show that currently the fiscal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria corresponds to the practices of the European Union. We fit in and stand well, the bad news is that we continue to be the last in the European Union, as the gross domestic product of a person of the population cannot be changed in one year. The most important is Bulgaria's policy in the future, including what happened today in parliament. God willing to accept the budget, as the adoption of the budget will lead to increased confidence and stability of the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian families, because we have a lot of work to do. As we look well at fiscal policy assessment indicators, we are three or four times behind the averages of a number of EU member states, mostly living standards and gross domestic product per capita. In conclusion, there are no problems with the public debt of the Republic of Bulgaria, no problems with the budget deficit. Politics can, of course, be even better focused on fiscal policy, because thousands of Bulgarian companies and tens of thousands of Bulgarian families expect the shoulder of the Bulgarian state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u347	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Mr. Chobanov, come in. Mr. Ananiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Dear Professor Gechev, there are problems with the Bulgarian debt, there are problems and it is not its size, it is not even the ceiling of the debt that we can increase, we may not increase. It had to be planned better and more in the budget to think about what would happen with interest rates and how they would grow because it was clear. The problem will arise with liquidity management and the problem with debt is that until now we have not issued debt, and the mission will probably not happen. From now on, the debt yields of eurozone countries are rising sharply, and if we have to meet these debt limits from September to the end of the year, it will be infinitely difficult and at a much higher price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u350	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable representatives of the executive power, honourable Members! It is clear from Professor Gechev's statement that he is a supporter of the sharp loosening of the fiscal policy of the state and tried to prove through the main financial indicators how this happens. I, since I have a separate statement and will talk about these same issues, just want to ask him a question of Professor Gechev. When comparing certain data from Bulgaria with other countries, you should have, Professor Gechev, say that our deficit of 4.1% compared to gross domestic product is on a cash basis, while Eurostat's data on other countries is on a charged basis. Last year, at the end of the year, 2 billion were transferred. 900 million. lv. in the case of foreign funds accounts to be reported on the accrued base. In addition, this year perhaps part of the increase in pensions will be taken over by 1 billion. 50 million. BGN, which will enter from the Plan for Recovery and Sustainability, and this all by recalculating, Professor Gechev, on a charged basis, you will see that we will go somewhere about 7%. So I ask you very carefully to give the data to our fellow Members of Parliament, this is the first. And the second, Mr. Chobanov said one of my notes, which I was going to say about the debt. I have something else to say. The trend in the issue of debt is also important. Yeah, 16 billion were withdrawn debt, but in three years. This year alone will be 10 billion. 30 million. lv. For next year and for next year, new 9 billion will be envisaged. 100 million. BGN, without including the possible debt funding of the pensions of this year, which will cost for next year 3 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, and for next year 4 billion. 200 million. lv. This is my question to Professor Gechev, when he gives information, to give it a comparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u351	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there another line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u352	Thank you. I thank you for the questions of colleagues, so it should be. They're colleagues with experience, we've worked together. Peter was one of my best students at the UNWE and we continue to argue and propose solutions to certain issues in the Budget Committee. As regards emissions, associate Professor Chobanov is right that the later the loan is drawn, the interest rates will be higher. That's exactly what I was explaining, and we don't have any differences here, there's no hesitation. I cannot say whether interest rates will be 1% or 2% higher, but what the Central Bank of Japan, the American Central Bank, the European Central Bank, countries outside the European Union in Latin America, as this is my profession, I am teaching economic policy for 40 years and comparing data from different countries, there is no doubt that interest rates will be higher, and here Peter is right because the demand for loans will increase for the following reason. It is that by raising interest rates on loans, it means with us in southern Europe countries such as Italy, Spain, France, Portugal will be in a very unpleasant situation the coming months and the next year, as their debt, in which they are stuck to the ears, the payment of this debt will be difficult and buyers will come out on the international market, so that interest will be higher. In fact, your criticism is why the government did not earlier bet on the budget and did not ask Parliament to draw up a preliminary debt, but here we come into explanations and arguments that can also be political in this complicated environment, that is, here we have no distinction. With regard to the budget deficit. Of course, Commissioner Ananiev, we should make a difference on a cash basis, but the question is how many governments and how they trick at the end of the year, delaying certain payments. Colleague, even if there is any difference in the average deficit of 7% of the euro area and in deficits of eight or nine percent of developed countries, I did not even tell you about Britain, which did not hesitate to come up above 10%. But I want to make a correction. Nowhere and never, dear colleague Ananiev, have I pleaded for a looser fiscal policy. The opposite of what I have pleaded is that the last few years the finance ministers, including my colleague Vassilev, use one perhaps not very precise expression, are cheap finance ministers and perhaps should be, but they have squeezed the purse a little bit harder than all the other EU member states. If there is a criticism, it is that this could be a little closer to the average indicators of the European Union, but it is better to be more careful than to get to the situation of France, Italy and Spain, which are more developed than we are, but their finances are currently not looking at all well. So from this point of view, I think I've answered your questions. There are no reasons for concern, there are reasons for concern in terms of how the Bulgarian state will act in this complex situation, because the political crisis must be resolved quickly. Bulgaria cannot afford to keep moving from left to right, right to left and change directions. Because other member states of the European Union, our partners are starting to increase the difference from Bulgaria, which is not acceptable and we are obliged to do everything possible to reverse this trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u353	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Before I give the next speech, I give the floor to the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u354	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I take the floor, as one of the changes provided for in the budget update is precisely the sector....................... and a few words I would like to say on this subject. Small and medium-sized enterprises in the primary production of agricultural production are one of the most seriously affected by the war in Ukraine and respectively by the sanctions imposed and the response taken. They face a number of challenges, of which the most seriously emerging is the inability to cover significantly increased costs of production resources, such as electricity, fuel, feed, plant protection products, fertilisers. The collection of all these factors has a negative effect on the financial liquidity of farmers and is a prerequisite for inability to adequately meet current and short-term obligations. In this order of thinking without interference from the State and providing support for the viability and survival of a number of farms will be threatened due to the lack of working resources. The European Commission has developed several mechanisms to assist the affected enterprises in the war in Ukraine and the agricultural sector, including by national means, which will be mentioned shortly and are recorded in our proposal to amend the state budget. In this regard, funds are provided in the sectors of............................................................................................. First, a temporary framework. The European Commission presented to the Member States a Temporary Framework for State aid measures in support of the economy following Russia's aggression against Ukraine with a single holding limit of up to 35 thousand. Euros. The aid shall not be fixed on the basis of the price and quantity of products placed on the market. The criteria are similar to de minimis minimum aid rules in the agricultural sector and the framework is in application 31 December 2022. It is important to note that Bulgaria was among the countries at whose request the possibility of assistance specifically aimed at the sector....................................................................................... A number of Member States are already implementing the measures under the Temporary Framework and others are in the process of developing them. Ours will be finalized once the budget is voted, as these funds must be presented to the European Commission that they are available. For the first quarter of 2022, the National Statistical Institute reported a total increase in prices of goods and services put into agriculture by 24,8% compared to 2021, which in absolute value amounted to 286 million. BGN, on the basis of which our estimates are made to cover the costs of farmers, as this year these are their increased costs lv. We believe that it would be extremely beneficial with this budget to propose that it be supported by the MPs under the Temporary Framework, with which at least partially to compensate farmers for increased production costs. I think we are largely doing this with several mechanisms, apart from national funding. This compensation is currently applied through State aid under the Temporary Framework for the CoVID-19 pandemic, with a total budget of 143 million. BGN that was paid off last night. I thank the Ministry of Finance and everyone who then helped develop this Temporary Framework, but since last night 143.5 million. lv. are on the accounts of farmers, which is the first major incentive to support those people who are extremely affected. For the first time, this government has implemented such a mechanism and such a huge amount which directly supports farmers outside those which are paid each year as State aid and European financing. In the current crisis, it is essential to continue supporting farmers, thus preventing the increase in final prices of agricultural products in autumn and the farms will retain their sustainability and will continue to ensure the provision. We are currently sensing the effect of these 143.5 million. lv. plus those who are expected to be voted now. This trend we expect and count on to continue in the autumn, so that there is no drastic increase in food prices to ensure food security. Secondly, state aid. As a welfare of pigs and birds 2022 is the last for the implementation of the two State aid schemes. The Bulgarian pig farmers and poultry farmers carry out activities with which they take additional care of the animals and provide safe and quality products on the agricultural production market. In 2022, pigs did not receive full State aid due to the deteriorating situation in the country due to African swine fever disease. As a result, funds of 19,2 million were paid. lv. Instead of the amount of 35 million. An additional 15 million is needed until the notified budget is reached. BGN, which we have read in this proposal for amending the budget. By providing this additional resource, we will not have to apply a reduction factor in the direction of fattening pigs, that is, we are giving a serious incentive to our pig farmers in this difficult situation, something they expect. With regard to poultry farming, funds are needed for the payment of the aid for 2022 so as not to apply a reduction factor due to a shortage of financial resources, amounting to nearly 3.7 million. lv. In this way, poultry and egg producers will also be able to be supported in full, i.e. we reach the full ceilings for 2022. This is taken into account the need to cover these costs in order to compensate for the losses both from increased costs and from imports at low prices due to increased production in the European Union in order to keep our sectors profitable. Bulgarian pig farmers and poultry farmers carry out their activities under the strict control of the Bulgarian services. They fulfil a number of requirements for biosecurity, animal welfare and are an example of an organised production process in relation to all rules. These are industrial industries which are severely affected by the increase in production costs and by the provision of additional financing of 18,7 million. lv. It will be possible at least partially to compensate for the lost benefits and the increased costs. Financial assistance measures in 2022 are in line with the signed coalition agreement on policies for the construction of a viable, competitive and market-oriented agricultural sector and have been prioritised to small and medium-sized farms. These are our readings. The total amount of funds needed to support vulnerable sectors in agriculture amounts to 168 million. $700,000. lv. to cover expenditure under the temporary framework relating to the war in Ukraine and existing State aid for the welfare of pigs and birds. The total amount, I'll repeat it to you again, is 168.7 million. BGN, which is another unprecedented boost in support of the Bulgarian farmers, which I really repeat, is unprecedented. The state has never so far granted such funds to help farmers despite the crises that have happened over the years. Here we have scored an income that we expect from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I think it will even be overrun in the budget, as, by transferring the activity already controlled by the state at the border of Captain Andreevo, the results are no longer late. By the end of the year we have noted that we expect 25 million revenue in the budget, which I think will be increased. I'd like to add one more thing. As it will be said that these funds are not sufficient, we have two more mechanisms, which are with European funds. One mechanism is the European Union's crisis reserve, which was granted to the Bulgarian state of 10.6 million. EUR, which has the option to be increased to 200%, and from the restructuring budget of the State Fund.................................... without having to additionally load the budget, will be supplemented to 200% plus one initiative of the Bulgarian State which was supported. In other words, Bulgaria was involved in this initiative. We expect a European Commission regulation to be amended in July and to be allocated to us up to 5% of the Rural Development Programme. To be used for direct support to farmers, so that the total amount of national and European, which we rely on, by the end of the year, will enter as direct support to keep the sector competitive, is between 290 and 295 million. BGN, which with a kind of aid, which was paid last night, is now 400 million. BGN, nearly 450 million. BGN, which is a double increase and more than double what the state normally pays farmers. In this direction, the entire government, the Ministry of Finance, all who work in this direction, for one single purpose we have done it to ensure the food security of the country and to keep our agriculture competitive. Such aid, as the state is providing at this time, is extremely important and extremely important for our farmers, and to ensure low food prices by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u355	Thanks to Minister Ivanov. The next recorded MP for speech is Vladislav Panev. Here you are, Mr. Panev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u356	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! A few months ago, when we spoke on the Republican budget, I mentioned the specific risks that lie within it. Naturally, both the budget deficit and expenditure on gross domestic product were under the coalition programme. These parameters do not change and now, which is why we, too, from "Democratic Bulgaria." We have every reason to support it. Naturally, we must emphasise again the risks to the budget, namely inflation. Even then we talked that it would be significantly higher than the one that was planned, and it is very likely to be higher than the now planned, although the situation on international markets, you know, is extremely dynamic. Yesterday there was an increase in interest rates in the United States. It is very likely that this will also be followed by an increase in interest rates in Europe, which will lead to relevant economic changes both in Bulgaria and in neighbouring countries and in terms of inflation, which I hope these measures will manage by the end of the year. With regard to the measures themselves in the updated budget. To a large extent, they are really anti-inflation related to a reduction in tax revenues. I can quote the reduction in VAT from 20 to 9% of utilities, the reduction in VAT on bread. Perhaps these are not the measures that we would like to introduce in terms of tax reductions. Do not forget also the measures to reduce the tax burden on parents with young children. But for me, this is a step in the right direction, as far as they address people's daily expenses, they also address the socially weak people, the pensioners, in the case of the public insurance budget. I appeal to all my fellow Members to support the budget at first reading, so that there can be a second view, so that the higher pensions can enter into force after its adoption. Accordingly, I also appeal for more conservative proposals between first and second readings, in so far as this budget must... It is not clear exactly who will perform it, as shown by the new majority in the plenary. That is, it is the budget of the whole of Bulgaria, of all 240 MPs who should feel responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u357	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Are there lines? Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Ministers! My line to Mr. Panev is related to the optimistic statement made by Mr. Gechev. I always worry when BSP is involved in the management and when there are calls for loosening the belt. If we assume that inflation will not be who it is, and it probably will not be, and if we assume that energy carriers continue to rise, I have concerns that we may have to make another budget update. And one more thing. How do you take the measures that are bet in the budget, namely the untargeted measures: the distribution of helicopter money to a cock, on the one hand, and on the other, what do you think about the zero rate of value added tax in terms of bread? I say to you that this will not lead to a reduction in the price of bread. I just want to hear your opinion, especially on the optimistic forecast that was expressed by BSP colleagues, and that always bothers me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u359	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Is there another line to Mr. Panev? I can't see. Mr. Panev, the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u360	Thank you, Mr. Christov. With regard to the zero VAT rate for the bread. I have always been a supporter of the uniform VAT rate, but exceptional circumstances also require extraordinary solutions, as we currently have unprecedented inflation in the last decades around the world, I would say, not only in the European Union and in Bulgaria, that is, income protection comes to the front. Will this affect the cost of bread? Yes, it will. Will it reduce it to what levels? Perhaps the price of bread would be lower with zero VAT than 20% VAT. In terms of helicopter money. Inflation only a charlatan could predict by the end of the year what will be not only in Bulgaria, but in the whole world. It directly depends on commodity prices, directly dependent on broken supply chains, directly dependent on the actions of the major central banks: the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. We see what the Federal Reserve decided yesterday or the other day. It is for a serious fight against inflation, an increase in interest rates of 0.75 points in one day is unprecedented for the past decades, i.e. willpower exists. Whether this will happen in Europe is questionable, as far as, let us say, the European Union is at a different stage of its economic development compared to the United States. And here the differences between the North and the South are greater, but maybe this is the subject of a much more serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u361	Thank you, Mr. Panev. DPS colleague, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u362	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I think it is your commitment, or, above all, the commitment of the coalition, which it manages now, with regard to the financing of the Ministry of Interior system, and especially your commitment as Minister of Finance. We have been watching one analysis for six months, only one good ox with regard to the employees in the system, and Mr. Rashkov is a minister for more than a year. And the only thing that he and I had a common point in terms of reform, which was to be done at the Ministry of Interior, is precisely to increase the remuneration of employees in the Ministry of Interior system and, above all, to improve their social and environmental conditions. But alas, this... My question directly to you is: is the budget an increase of 20% in the remuneration of the employees in the Ministry of Interior system and an improvement in their social environment at work? Obviously, it is not foreseen, because we could not find this thing, and that is why the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is certainly not going to support this budget at first reading. But for us from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this means a lot. Firstly, mostly poor quality of the service in the security system, and secondly, that the authorities are not interested in security and mostly in the employees in the Ministry of Interior system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u363	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. It's kind of like parliamentary control. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You may take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u364	Thanks for asking. The funds envisaged for an increase in remuneration not only in the Ministry of Interior's system were voted on by the budget, which was voted at the end of January. It's about 300 million. BGN, which are related to effective management and restructuring. As far as I know, and I attended last week's report by Minister Rashkov along with the other authorities of the Ministry of Interior, as well as with the trade unions we have spoken several times, there is already a reform plan in the Ministry of Interior. This reform plan includes a number of key things related to the retirement of employees that need to be taken outside the system, related to reforming some of the sections related to changing some of the key units in the system. As soon as this plan is submitted to the Council of Ministers, funds will be unlocked by the Effective Governance Fund in order to increase the salaries of people in the system. As far as I know, the PMS is in preparation, so there is no need for additional funds to be provided in the budget. They are already provided for in the original budget. The Ministry of Interior is about to complete their reform plan and, accordingly, these funds will be unlocked. Exactly how and in what form and in what percentage will be, currently, colleagues from the Ministry of Interior are discussing with the Deputy Prime Minister on effective management and with colleagues from finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u365	Thank you. Since I didn't ask if there were any lines to Mr. Ahmedov? I can't see. Thank you. The next person to sign up is Mr. Karimansky. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u366	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister Prodanov, Dear colleagues! Before I move on to the analysis that I am going to do very professionally, I would like to focus on just a few things that happened in the adoption of the 2022 budget. Only about four months ago we adopted the state budget for 2022. During the discussion in the Budget and Finance Committee, the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and the Minister for Finance expressed the expectation that a large part of the policies of individual ministries and offices would be appreciated in the update of the budget in June. I fully agree with the Deputy Prime Minister that, in order for such valuation to make sense, it is necessary to prepare a comprehensive reform in the public sector. And in order for this reform to work effectively, it is necessary to take appropriate action to optimize the processes in the public sector so that they can be minimized and corruption in them. By June, it was expected to provide the individual transformations of the processes in public administration, to be transparent, to take place in some standardised processes and not only to be reduced as an expression of the reform. As the Minister of Finance said at the time, the budget we are adopting in February was aimed at, I quote: investing in the main factors for growth of the economy, namely the human capital of the infrastructure, end of quote. However, we have almost no income policy in this update, and I very much hope that this will happen in October when the budget for 2023 is proposed. The analysis of the return policy should have been presented by June. This has never been done before. It was also promised that, in the budget update, individual policies will be clearly visible through expenditure in the central budget, but at the same time in this budget as an update we do not see the full expansion of the central budget, one part only of it, probably also because of the conditions that are of a geopolitical nature. Has the promised capital fund been created at the request of the National Organisation of Municipalities since we have also postponed the budget update in June? Finally, before I started with the concrete analysis, if you remember, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, during the second vote in the Committee on Budget and Finance, you said that until the update will be proposed by the Ministry of Finance a fund mechanism for Radio and TV, so that it will finally work and have independent media, public media, and independent funding of public media. From the point of view of the quantitative analysis that I would like to present, I would like to start by saying a few words about the main macroparameters. World and European economies are expected to grow much weaker in 2022, mainly because of the war in Ukraine and because of all these geopolitical turbulences that currently exist. Bulgaria's real gross domestic product will increase by 2.9 in 2022, not 4.8, as it was laid down in the current budget, which means that the Finance Ministry continues to rely on tangible higher growth than what the European Commission has foreseen. With the components of gross domestic product, the Finance Ministry expects consumption to grow at a much lower pace than the previous forecast, i.e. 3.2 vs 4.3, which seems odd in view of the expectations for a more dynamic recovery of the labour market during the year and including from the perspective of Ukrainian refugees who should be involved in the equation. Grossing of fixed capital is expected to grow by more than twice lower, which in part appears to be justified by reduced expectations for foreign direct investment. That's probably the reason. The poor business environment would also contribute to weaker investment activity. As far as net exports are concerned, the budgetary update implies a greater drop in import growth than exports, reflecting the new expectation of lower consumption, as mentioned above. The labour market will improve according to the new macro framework, with employment increasing significantly by 1.7% in 2022 compared to 1,1, which was expected before, while unemployment will fall to 4.5%. The latter approaches the natural rate of unemployment in Bulgaria, which may have negative consequences or consequences in general for inflation expectations and dynamics in view of the Philips' curve. According to the theory, the unemployment reduction leads to an increase in inflation, especially after the labour market starts to overheat, which happens after reaching this natural unemployment rate. The wages will continue to grow with nearly two-digit growths, but this will not be enough to exceed inflation, which we said the average inflation for 2022 is expected to be about 11.9%, and what we said about the nearly two-digit wage growth is about 9.2%. The current account will continue to deteriorate, but not by much, perhaps driven by an increasing trade deficit, and here the reason is still higher growth of imports against exports. Expectations for foreign direct investment are reduced to 2.4% of gross domestic product in 2022 from 3.7 before, which means that the government has seriously realised its expectations for the investment intentions of foreign companies in Bulgaria. Most likely, however, this is due to the war in Ukraine, although many analysts claim that Bulgaria can actually take advantage of the situation and attract a workforce and companies that want to develop in Bulgaria and in the European Union. I'm moving on to the quantitative analysis of the main budgetary parameters. I'd like to stop at a few points. First, the nominal increase in the revenue will come mainly from aid and donations. This is 20.6%, which reflects the money on the line of European recovery funds after the Kovid pandemic. The tax revenue is then equal to 0.8%, as well as the non-taxable revenue by 3.4%. It should be noted that direct taxes are expected to decrease by 1,5% compared to previous expectations of March 2022, driven by much weaker revenue from the tax on individuals. The latter is odd because of two facts. The first fact is the.... is expecting a serious improvement in the labour market and we have an accelerated increase in wages. The finance ministry says this is due to one of the anti-inflation measures, increased tax reliefs for children, but this increase does not seem to correspond to the underlying reductions in natural persons' tax. Revenues from corporate tax are expected to rise by 2.3%. Questions also raise expectations for social security contributions, where no change is expected, although there are factors moving in the other direction. First, the government increases the maximum insurance threshold by the average of about 13.3% in April 2022, which affects an increasing... mostly is based rather on an increasing number of people. Secondly, the better labour market can only contribute to more social security contributions. The expectations of the Finance Ministry may signal that the rise in different thresholds in administrative order has rather led to an increase in the grey sector and we must be very careful here. In indirect taxes, a growth of 2.2% is expected compared to expectations in March 2022, with almost everyone coming from higher VAT, which, although higher than the total revenue portion, is far below the growth of the nominal economy, namely 5.2%. The latter is explained by the government's anti-inflation measures, including lower VAT rates for a very small group of goods, not so large a group of goods, income from excise duties is also expected to be weaker for the same reason. The rate rises by 3.1% with the update that moves almost entirely of most non-interest income, which is about 3%. More specifically, current non-interest costs increase by 3.5%, the main reason being higher costs associated with social security contributions plus 5.9%, perhaps due to increased maximum insurance threshold. With the alimony of the administration, notice, we also have an increase, but to a lesser extent, and we were talking about reform to have a 15% cut in public administration. Expectations for capital expenditure do not change, however, and this can be both a good and a bad signal. It may well be if it is known that the public administration is moving on a plan from the perspective of all the projects that have been entered and started to be implemented in the capital programme. It is bad if the government knows that projects are not moving as planned and thus create a budget buffer that can be used in risk scenarios to redirect funds at the end of the year to sectors in need, as well as to maintain the balance sheet value underlying this update of minus 4,1%. Mr. Chairman, if I exceed the time, please extend.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u367	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u368	As for the financing of the budget deficit, the Finance Ministry has seriously changed its expectations about where it will take money to cover the deficit this year. Now the expectations are for this to happen mainly 70.3% of the total financing from the external capital markets and not as previously. In other words, there is much more to rely now on external capital markets and less on domestic capital markets. Before this update these proportions were 23 for external and 76.6 for external. Most likely this change is due to the fact that the emissions of the internal market, which happened earlier this year, did not show a very strong interest among investors, which imposed the payment of higher interest. This will only increase in time. I would also like to explain a few things from the point of view of the comments on the reasons for the update. The new forecasts are taken into account in terms of the anti-inflation measures agreed between the coalition partners, this is expected to have a positive effect, but still increases the negative risk to fiscal performance in 2022, in case the measures turn out to be ineffective, because we should also have such a forecast, we should have a different type of scenario in which to look at the individual effects. Expectations for this can also be from various other risks, so why not deepen the problems in terms of war in Ukraine? The government expects state-owned companies to increase their dividend contribution to the fiction by 214 million. BGN, which represents a large increase and carries a lot of risks. One such risk is the state-owned companies will not have the funds needed for modernization that are essential for their sustainability and for their dynamic development. The second risk is that if companies still have to invest in a project, they will be forced to take debt or borrow at least a loan for which interest is paid. Thus, instead of making use of their profits, they will have to increase their debt and interest burden, which is absolutely unnecessary and short-sighted in my opinion. Finally, even if this happens under the best market conditions, debt taken by state-owned companies is called quasi-state debt. An increase in the maximum amount is planned, but I will not dwell on it from the point of view that my colleagues have stopped from the point of view of an increase in government debt. Rather, I would like to refer to a few points that are related to risks. The finance ministry has placed the war in Ukraine and inflation dynamics, the epidemic situation and the influx of refugees as major risks to the forecast accompanying the budget update. It should be addressed in each of them the effect of all these risks, and that is what we do not see - we do not see what the effect is. To these risks I would add potential political turbulence in Bulgaria, which we already see. Finally, what is missing in the budget, in a few words: - Any deep structural changes to make the Bulgarian economy more competitive, innovative and sustainable to more and more shocks ahead; - Energy independence efforts, of course, are welcome, but insufficient; - The reform effort must be focused on the biggest items in the budget "Society and pension systems, power ministries, health and education; - In the social and pension system more money and personal pension accounts, higher retirement age, easier entry into the labour market for Ukrainians, Russians, Belarusians. Missing the blue card. [[the President signals that time has run out]] • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I'm done. Just one more minute, please. - Power ministries and the judiciary also; - Implementation of commitments concerning the reform of the prosecution, the judiciary and the services. The deeper the reforms, the stronger the effect on economic activity and entrepreneurship will be; - The health care of the digital health file, as well as optimization of processes, rules and costs to hold very pò in an optimal size so that the digital health file can really enter into force. Finally, education is small in number, but extremely good universities with development, with connection to innovation. For example, in just one country that we all have in Europe as an example, there are 12 universities that manage to reconcile all those needs, such as a link between innovation from the point of view of science and real implementation in practice. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u369	Maybe in the back now, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u370	Yeah, I'm done. Lastly, I would like to say that between the first and second votes, we will make our proposals and, in the first vote, we will support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u371	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. First line, Mr. Chobanov, come in. Are there any other lines? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u372	Dear Mr. Chairman, dearly lacking government, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Karimansky, do you think anyone is listening to you? You said very true, important things, but did anyone hear you? Did any of the people who were supposed to listen to you hear you? Specifically, the question I am asking you is: do you think it is possible to implement the forecast in the update that hangs in the air and has no status because we do not have a three-year budget forecast? We have a macroeconomic framework that will quickly be changed by the next one, and very soon. Is it possible to meet the forecast for gross capital formation of fixed capital where growth is envisaged, given that the first quarter we have a decline of minus 5.6%? We have five consecutive quarters of decline in investments in gross domestic product, in their real change and we are at the lowest value of this indicator in real terms since 2013 in the first quarter of this year. This answers the question: how and what happens in the economy. But do you think it's an actual and realistic forecast? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky. You have three minutes, you can finish this from before, if there's anything left.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u374	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chobanov, it is very difficult to answer your question unambiguously due to the fact that we really do not have the forecast for three years ahead, first. And secondly, we are not aware from the point of view of the private direct investment if I are to plan how they will develop, how the necessary prerequisites and comprehensive tools will be made by the state so that they are attracted and can really give the effect for which the government had prepared itself in February 2022. You have rightly noted from the point of view of the gross formation of fixed capital. It is expected that I said it in my exhibition, and it is expected to grow by more than twice as weak, which only one means that foreign direct investment will not have this effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u375	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. The next statement is recorded by Kiril Ananiev. [[Replicate from the National Representative Kiril Ananiev: "Can I wait for the Minister of Finance to come? "]] I don't know if he'll come or when, he'll probably come. Let's see who the others signed up for is Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Kostadinov. Would you like to speak, Mr. Kostadinov? Yeah. We'll see where the minister is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u376	Mr. President, the proposed budget update 2022 begins with the text: The draft provides for an urgent package of anti-crisis measures aimed at reducing the negative consequences of increasing fuel and energy prices, respectively increasing inflation pressure on the most affected groups of society and business. The aim is to support Bulgarian citizens and businesses in an unprecedented crisis caused by military actions in Ukraine and to mitigate the shocks caused by the high prices of energy carriers and raw materials for vulnerable groups of society and the economy of Bulgaria. Nice words! However, what does the updated budget really propose? We can call it a shorter budget to save the skin of the government through the fake protection of people and businesses due to the high inflation that it will continue to form. This is a budget with high social costs, increased investment costs, without coverage of specific investment projects. Essentially, the budget update is due to the wrong conduct and, I would say, even the criminal policy of the government. This wrong policy has led us to a sharp rise in inflation in our country. According to NSI data, annual inflation for May 2022 has already reached the record 15.6%. However, the highest growth year-on-year was reported in food products where it was 22.7%, in electricity, water and heat consumption expenditures at 17.5%. There hasn't been such high inflation in 24 years since the currency board period, its introduction in December 1997, when it was 16.1, but on an annual basis, while here we are talking about a period of five months. Inflation is already higher than the rise in prices during the 2008 World Financial Crisis, when it reached 14.5%. All this is mainly because of the government's policy to refuse direct imports of natural gas from Russia. Direct imports, I repeat because, although Bulgaria was one of the first countries to give up Russian gas imports, and at the moment the government has not yet announced what its long-term contracts and plans for gas imports, as well as the two tankers allegedly agreed by the United States, it is still unclear what exactly Bulgarian needs cover. During this whole time, natural gas is being delivered from Azerbaijan and Greece, which, however, is essentially the supply of Russian gas through intermediaries. The only benefit here is for the intermediary companies of the government, but not for businesses and consumers who will have to take the difference, while maintaining the increase in inflation. Meanwhile, countries from the eurozone core continue to import gas from Russia, and quite expected inflation levels are twice as low as expected. According to Eurostat data at the end of May 2022, the average inflation for the Eurozone is 8%, otherwise twice as low as in Bulgaria. For Germany it is even lower "7.9%," for Italy "6.9%" and so on. In the proposed budget update, we see that the money that is expected to arrive under the Recovery Plan will be spent on social protection, i.e. it will be distributed to people. However, there are no projects to be implemented. For businesses there are certain reductions in excise duties, which are quite symbolic, all the more so that no increases in excise duties on imports are provided, especially for fruits and vegetables with high levels of pesticides. On the one hand, we will give money to people, of course, but at the same time we will poison them. Obviously, something very interesting in the budget or update, the game Kove and Psychopandemia will continue because high costs have been saved in this cost feather lv. Whether they're necessary at all, there's no analysis in the report. The macroeconomic economic indicators are too optimistic. For example, the expected real growth of gross domestic product of 2.9% already, although almost double adjusted downwards, is difficult to achieve, given that resource prices continue to grow, supply chains in many sectors have been cut and there is no particular prospect that the factor causing these turmoil, namely the conflict in Ukraine, will be dropped before the end of the year. The updated macro framework on the basis of which the updated budget is made is incorrect, and hence the budget itself is unfaithful. I will just point out a few examples. First, the price of oil. The forecast is $100, and it has been trading at 110 levels for a barrel for over a month. The trend is not to decline, but to increase. Average annual inflation.. 11.9%. We're now 15.6%, no sign of deflation. The three-month interest rate EURIBOR is 0,2%, in the case of requests from the ECB to raise interest rates and planned a possible increase of 1% at the end of the year, i.e. five times higher than that laid down in the update. With this set out wrong parameters all predictions will simply be false. The reduced forecasting of inflation and oil prices and interest rates mathematically lead to reduced forecasting of tax revenues from VAT. Not to mention another thing that in the April report of the consolidated fiscal programme there is no explanation for the weak collection of VAT tax from transactions in the country. According to the text on the website of the Ministry of Finance, VAT revenues in transactions in the country at the end of April amounted to 2.9 billion. BGN, which is only 0.3%, or 7.8 million. lv. more than during the same period of the previous year. However, this rate is dramatically differing, for example, with the index of turnover in the sector....................... at current prices which, according to the latest available data at the end of March.................................................................................... Such a drastic delay in collection requires as a minimum a comment and clarification of the causes of the catastrophic drop in collection rate and raises serious concerns about the ability of this government to manage the money it collects from all Bulgarian citizens. The text in the reasons stubbornly avoids clarifying that the actual budget deficit for 2022 will be real by 1.2 billion. lv. larger than will be reported because the 1.2 billion in question were accounted for as expenditure for last year, without being spent, and just in December were allocated to foreign funds accounts to be spent later. In other words, just before New Year's Eve 1.2 billion. lv. They just disappeared up the finance minister's sleeve to get them out of there this year. This is not the patent of the current government, of course, it is a vicious practice, which the new GERB The technique in question for the transfer of costs for future periods was used for the renovation, the highway "Hemus" and other favorites of the new management chewing gum, which in fact turned out to be chewing them too. The concern for inflation potential is reinforced by the fact that the increase in expenditure in the update project is 15.8% more than the reported expenditure on the consolidated budget last year. They are ahead of both expected inflation and nominal growth of gross domestic product. If the expenditure transferred from last year's budget is added, then the cost increase at stake compared to last year is almost 18%, or nearly one fifth more, that is, the anti-inflation measures declared will in fact only stimulate inflation and even faster price increases. There is no clear strategy. The measures appear to be.. and not only do they seem, they are chaotic. There are no reforms, there is no thorough analysis, there is not even a vision to overcome the energy price crisis. All measures strangely surround the main cause of inflation For the reasons set out in a nutshell above, the AGE will not support the proposed update of the budget. We believe that this government has been definitively compromised. The only way out of the situation and the failures of the last days is not an update of the budget, but a resignation of the government, rescheduled new elections and an update of the autumn October, if the Lord has said so, November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u377	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev. Then I'll give the minister my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u378	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I have a question for you. You say that these measures are not adequate and that they will increase inflation. My question, of course, is: can you specify exactly how, because the specialists in this area, of which you, unfortunately, are not? which has become clear from your statement, say that this is not true? I agree that maybe it's not true. Please give me more arguments as to how the proposed measures by the government - which is exactly the economic mechanism in which they will increase inflation? That's my first question. And my second question, of course, is this: nice elections, nice going in the fall. Mr. Kostadinov, explain to us with whom you will make an exact majority to accept the next budget? He'll probably be with GERB and DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u379	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you go, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u380	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wasn't going to take the floor, but Mr. Mitev got a line anyway. Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I see someone wrote you the text you read with a lot of pathos. There are a lot of factual inaccuracies and it is good to understand exactly how inflation is measured, and in this regard I wanted to ask you: please tell me, what would be the plan of recovery to control inflation? I'd love to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u381	Thank you, Mrs. Angova. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u382	I'll start backwards. The plan to master inflation is very simple. We're taking down the government that's leading a pro-inflation policy. It's very simple! From then on, I will remind you that there have been questions about what exactly the measures are proposing, among other things, that we know that it is rooted mostly in the big problem, namely that we are governed by an incompetent government. I would remind you that, at the end of last year, we have introduced a VAT-change law, which was intended to remove the VAT on food from the small consumer basket, which was intended to remove the VAT on medicines and which was intended to remove the VAT on electricity and water bills for domestic consumers. Something that is a very powerful anti-inflation measure that represents the most serious buffer possible, and that is what economists and financiers say, of course, I am not, I am simply repeating what people, much more aware of in this area than we have said and written. Then the argument not to accept this proposal was that it would cause very serious damage to the budget. However, I see that some of these measures are now being proposed, including the removal of VAT for the bread. Palliative and extremely late measure. If what we had proposed was accepted even if it wasn't at the end of last year, and the beginning of this one, there was enough time to comment anyway. We would have provided a very serious buffer, and for the most vulnerable group of the Bulgarian population, the pensioners who have the least funds, and whose funds, among other things, go exactly for these three things to pay their bills, to be able to buy food and medicines. When the state can't give money, at least it shouldn't. Those measures that we proposed were exactly the kind of measures we didn't accept. The last question was who will he rule with? ARGUMENT will rule on its own, you will have the opportunity to see this very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u383	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov. Is about five minutes enough for you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u384	Absolutely. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was interested in listening to Mr. Kostadinov's statement and I find a great deal of truth in it, only the verb timing is wrong. All that he shared to us as a prospect, guaranteed will happen if two things happen. Firstly, if this government falls, there are early elections, there is no parliament, or if they govern the colleagues of AGE, because their programme will certainly lead to this result. I noticed a lot of inaccuracies in that statement. Certainly thanks to the actions and measures taken by this government, firstly, in the original version of the budget we are now seeing a reduction in the price of fruit and vegetables. And thanks to these funds that we have now provided for assistance, we will have a price retention and I guess a further price reduction in a future period. But the apocalyptic version will certainly happen, I'm telling you, if the people here leave and don't vote the laws. Because one thing I guarantee you and I will say it in detail after debating the vote of mistrust, but the lack of parliament will lead to one thing for sure from 1 January 2023 there will be no subsidies for farmers because there will be no adoption of the new agricultural programme or the so-called Strategic Plan, because we have in the autumn to adopt several laws that are important so that it can become a fact. And in this way, I certainly guarantee you that by the New Year and at the beginning of next year, the results will be startling, unfortunately, unless you have found an option now in this National Assembly to form a government and take some measures that I personally do not see what they will be. But I'm telling you, if this budget, in this version, does not pass and the necessary actions are not taken, I fear that the Bulgarian people will suffer extremely severely and the blame will be carried entirely by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u385	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ananiev, I give you my word. They said the minister would be here any minute, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u386	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister of Finance, welcome! The adoption of the state budget, including the update, is one of the most important legislations of the National Assembly, as it is the main financial plan of the state and provides for the main policies and priorities of the country's socio-economic development. Due to political instability, the complex process of forming the ruling majority and government has had to take temporary decisions, which has led us today to examine and discuss a third iteration of the state budget and other constituent budgets of state social security and NHIF for 2022. The mechanism of interaction between coalition partners, decision making, following events and with unclear results and effects for the country gives me reason to believe that if this government continues to govern by the end of the year, this update will not be the last. The promised update of the growth budget, in quotes, of course, was looked forward to both business and citizens. Alas, the expectations of all of us were not justified. The destruction of the 25-year consensus to maintain a sensible and disciplined fiscal policy has made the current government a threat to the financial stability and national security of the country. The common economic policy and policy in the field of public finances is already a risk to the stability of the state and the well-being of Bulgarian citizens. Currently, the proposed update of the state budget does not comply with the provisions of art. 24 of the Public Finance Act. They state that the medium-term budgetary objective of the government-owned sector in the case of consolidated debt below 40% of GDP should not exceed 1% of gross domestic product. Currently, in the current law, the planned structural balance for 2022 is for a deficit of 3.1% of GDP. With the measures envisaged, most of which will not have a real one-off nature, this level will be exceeded again in violation of the law. According to art. 25, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act, the deficit of the public administration sector on an annual basis calculated on the basis of a European methodology cannot exceed 3% of GDP. The expected deficit of the government sector for 2022 is currently 5.3%, and after the update it will move to 5.4%, which is again a violation. In accordance with art. 27, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act, the annual budget deficit on a consolidated fiscal programme calculated on a cash basis shall not exceed 3% of gross domestic product. The planned deficit, as we all know, is expected to be 4.1%. I know what you would like to ask me.. there is currently a derogation to these fiscal rules, only I want to tell you, honourable colleagues, as a man who has worked for many years in the Ministry of Finance and we have made budgets, going back from these indicators will be very, very difficult and with very difficult measures for citizens and businesses. Since October, when a budget procedure for 2022 has started, we are offered for 9 months a sixth macroeconomic forecast aimed at protecting the parameters of the proposed budget update. Unfortunately, it is not reliable, up-to-date and faithful. This is confirmed by the forecasts and forecasts of the European Commission, the IMF and other international financial institutions. By the way, when I was just talking about debt, I had to inform you about the opinion of the European Commission, which is the same with regard to the currently approved deficit for 2022. The Commission is about to take a decision and will recommend the launch of an excessive deficit procedure against Bulgaria in the autumn of this year. Furthermore, the overall fiscal policy, in line with the potential size of GDP, will have a pro-cyclical nature. The Ministry of Finance envisages a reduction in the pre-planned growth of the economy for 2022 from 4.8% of GDP to 2.9 percent. The European Commission's forecast is for growth of 1.6%. The analysis I am doing gives me reason to be more conservative than the European Commission, and I believe that growth will not exceed 1% of gross domestic product. And all this comes not only from external factors, but also from the inaccurate assessment of the components that form the growth of the economy. Moreover, the bill almost misses real measures to lead to planned economic growth. The proposed update provides for substantial changes in the revenue and expenditure part of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2022. It also has a significant impact in the KPIs for the following years. Although the Public Finance Act foresees only two macroeconomic forecasts "Spring and Autumn," in this situation it is absolutely imperative to prepare and present a new 3-year budget forecast. This is necessary to assess whether the proposed measures meet the requirements of fiscal rules in the Public Finance Act in the medium term. In the update there are proposals that will load the budget for the coming years with a few billion levs I give for example only pensions, but they are not the only ones. I just mentioned the amount of expenditure that will come in additionally for pensions of 3,700 billion. lv. For next year and 4,200 billion. lv. for 2024 At the centre of the proposed update is the increase with the highest relative share of the necessary additional resources for pensions. Of course, we do not object to supporting the Bulgarian pensioners, but we need to see how the other costs and trends of the increase in revenues are consolidated so that we do not allow a violation of the fiscal stability of the state, including the assumption of excessive deficit, the inevitable increase in taxes and the assumption of extraordinary debt. This is the policy that supported and defended all governments in the last few decades. It is no coincidence that the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank warned the government not to bear significant additional permanent expenses against which no permanent income stood, as this could lead to tax lifting, reduction of other costs or inflationary spiral. When we have examined the draft budget or its update for a given year, we have always tried to determine its motto. Unfortunately, this update deepens and does not cope with the impoverishment of the Bulgarian citizens budget, which does not give a chance for the competitiveness of the Bulgarian business, unprecedented spending, without purpose, of a mudguard, without politics and management priorities. You call the presented draft state budget update anti-crisis and social, although it does not foresee an increase in the minimum wage, there is no income policy and more and more workers become working poor. I believe that the proposed approach underestimates the effects of negative economic prospects and accelerating inflation, in which the purchasing power of citizens significantly decreases. This is the update of the budget for 2022, which is not recognized by anyone and is not supported by any trade unions, employers or ordinary Bulgarian citizens. For the first time in Bulgaria's latest history, the Budget and Finance Committee did not support the state budget in the first vote. It's a precedent. Once again, a bill is introduced without an adopted management programme, without goals and priorities for the direction of the socio-economic development of Bulgaria. Even part of the coalition agreement is not included in the update. No reforms are foreseen. What a government of the Change is when it does not build up, but exactly vice versa. It deepens the problems in all spheres of the public sector. The change recorded zero year of change, zero year recorded municipalities. In the expected update of the growth budget, investment and prosperity you will not see a word about the promises of municipalities Municipal Investment Fund of 500 million. lv. with clear and transparent rules. Equal funding for the development of municipal infrastructure is a road and street network, compared to the Republican infrastructure will remain for another mandate and another government. In view of the recent political tremors in the MRRB, I am concerned with reservations about the possibility to annex the already concluded contracts by the mayors for infrastructure investments on which the implementation has started or is about to begin. They dealt with the refugee crisis in the country, Bulgarian mayors face the challenge of a significant increase in the current cost of maintenance. There's so much need for them, but there's no one to hear them. The update of the budget is not dealing with any of the crises hanging over Bulgaria. The measures are somewhat social in nature, but high inflation makes the effect of them meaningless. The other day the official inflation information for May 2022 came out compared to May 2021. You know that the National Statistical Institute pointed to 15.6%. The measures taken are not anti-inflation and anti-crisis. Most of them are pro-inflation. They are not targeted and targeted at the most deprived. The BNB has already warned about the presence of inflationary spiral. The measure of 25 pennies per litre of fuel for all will have no effect because after its announcement the prices exceeded this compensation. None of the measures led to economic growth, to stimulating production, to increasing workers' incomes and an increase in the economy. Neither national nor European investments will be realised. The Finance Minister's explanation was blanquet and false in the Budget and Finance Committee. This will not only lead to a failure of the adjusted economic growth from 4.8 to 2.9%, but as I mentioned to you, even lower than the European Commission's forecast. Deficit on a charged basis will be significantly higher by at least 2.2 "2,3" per cent above the planned on a cash basis. This means non-compliance with the Maastricht criteria and placing at risk from 1 January 2024 for entry into the euro area. Revenues have been underestimated, it has already been mentioned by those who have been talking, regardless of the measures that affect them. Their real coverage and, above all, high inflation will lead to lower deficits and debt, respectively. Since it was a question of debt, for the first time in many years this year alone, the debt issued will exceed 10 billion. 300 million. lv. The trend will become even worse, given that some of the social costs in the coming years must be provided by a new additional debt. Let us not forget that for 2023 and 2024 without the update measures, a debt of 9 billion is planned to be issued. 100 million. lv. My grief comes from two things. First of all, the government's unwillingness to admit that loudly proclaimed reforms cannot happen in a month or two and lead to the desired effect of all of us, but at least to be started. Such ambitious changes require broad public consensus, understanding and support not only from the different parliamentary groups, but from among the different groups in society, honourable rulers. Secondly, I am disappointed with the speed of action of footwork and the reluctance to discuss all points of view and significant social issues. A sector is not reformed overnight and at all costs. Sustainable results require thought-out long-term solutions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed bill, you have failed to respond to any of the commitments for socio-economic prosperity laid down in your Agreement on the Joint Management of Bulgaria, nor will you provide the wishes of all of us to respond to the challenges posed by the military conflict in Ukraine. The proposed measures do not lead to consolidation in our society. They led to a break even in the parties forming the ruling coalition. This draft of an act opposes the society's business of citizens working on a minimum wage with those receiving higher incomes, families with children, pensioners, people with disabilities. We will not support division. As a political force that has defended the principles of prudent fiscal policy and good governance of public finances, we cannot support the proposed update of the state budget for 2022. When one wants to take the lead of a country, one must first learn its history, achievements and problems in order to be able to identify the most adequate policies and measures for its prosperity. If you don't understand all this and can't realize it, I can wish you goodbye. [[(Replication from "We continue the Change": "Amin!" (Applause from GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u387	First line Mr. Stoynev, second line Mr. Mitev, third line Mr. Cholakov. But wait just for a second, since before 6:00 I have to read two messages, one is for parliamentary control. I'm sorry to interrupt the procedure this way, but that's how I've been informed. The first message, it was from yesterday, in fact, in connection with a motion to vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers. On the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 106 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 59 MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ propose the National Assembly to vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Kiril Petkov because of the failure of the government in financial and economic policy. The proposal, together with a motivated draft decision on no-confidence voting of the Council of Ministers, was submitted on 15 June 2022, Wednesday, at 8.51, No 47-254-02-70, on 15 June 2022. On the same day the materials were distributed by one copy of the parliamentary groups and sent to the MPs in electronic form. The second communication is for Parliamentary Control on 17 June 2022: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov will answer 4 questions from the MPs Vassil Zashkev; Krasen Krastev; Pavlin Krastev, Mukaddes Nalbant, Bajram and Adlen Shevked; and Krasimir Subev. 2. The Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will answer a question from the MP Krum Zarkov. 3. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer three questions from the MPs Elena Guncheva; Maya Dimitrova; and Elizabeth Belobradova. 4. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Tsoncho Ganev; and Mladen Shishkov. 5. The Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will answer a question from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Yordan Madjunkov. 6. Energy Minister Aleksandar Nikolov will answer a question from the MP Petar Kulenski. 7. Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov will answer one question from the MP Ivan Petkov. 8. The Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer a question from the MP Rositsa Kirova. 9. The Minister of Interior Boyko Raskov will answer 45 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov, two questions; Stanislav Anastasov, two questions; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Adlen Shevked, two questions; Bajram Bajram, two questions; Halil Letifov, two questions; Sevim Ali, two questions; Esheref Esheref, three questions; Petar Chobanov, two questions; Sezgin Mehmed, two questions; Dimitar Avramov, two questions; Ramadan Atalaj, two questions; Tsvetan Enchev, two questions; Fatmeadan Ramadan; Erdan Ebatin, two questions; Ahmed Ahmedov; Nebak Kabak, Nebak, two questions; Mümyoun Mümün, two questions; Alexander Nestrov, two questions; 10. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer three questions from the MPs Tsveta Galunova two questions; and Lyuben Dilov and Toma Bikov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Council of Ministers for Disease will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Ministry of Defence, due to a business trip outside the country, the answer to a question with a written answer from Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov is postponed. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Ministry of Interior, due to lack of respectable reasons of the MP Yordan Tsonev, the answers to three questions are postponed to the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. But he still has 45 left. Those were the messages. Now we move on to the lines. First line has Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Ananiev, with all due respect to you I have known you for a long time, of course, undisputed expertise in the field of finance, many people, especially in your parliamentary group, believe you completely, but at the same time what does the German Minister of Finance say? I greatly appreciate Bulgaria's efforts as a partner. We are here to support Bulgaria. We congratulate her on the stability of state finances, which is an inspiration for us. " - I mean, Bulgaria's public finances are an inspiration for Germany. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] In terms of external and public debt, it is extremely impressive what Bulgaria has achieved in terms of financial stability. We can only learn from the Bulgarian experience and from the implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. It was said exactly two days ago. I mean, colleagues, should we now trust the Minister of Germany or you, Mr. Ananiev? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u389	Second line, Mr. Mitev. You? Here you go, and then Mr. Cholakov's will be the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ananiev, 17 minutes of speech and if I have to put it in one sentence, what do you say? Raising pensions will have a pro-inflation effect. Mr. Ananiev, until now I was wondering why GERB for many years kept pensions at such miserable levels, why the minimum social pension is at the amount of BGN 170. or BGN 5 "6." a day for a fair life, for food, medicine, utility bills. And now, Mr. Ananiev, our efforts are to raise this pension to BGN 247 or BGN 8 a day, and you have, how can I say, the insolence to say that this will have a pro-inflation effect. I hope all our viewers are aware of your words. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u391	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u392	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kiril Ananiev! I have such a simple question that I know a lot of people are asking themselves right now. If expenditure is raised in one country, it is very possible that revenues will start to decrease and this country is constantly taking debt, and if this happens in a family, the day the collector company comes, they will start inventorying the property if they do not have stable incomes. Is it possible that in a country that acts this way, an inventory of the property can be found, and if it comes to it, what else do you think Bulgaria can afford to sell? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u393	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Ananiev. I almost said Mr. Minister by habit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u394	Just don't say Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u395	No, you won't. Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u396	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I'm going to say something that most of you probably won't like. It was a good scenario and a well-organized meeting, a good theater. I want to tell you that if they ask me, I would be happy to advise the German Minister of Finance to take our minister as Deputy Minister of Finance of Germany. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Sabrutev, you must have missed some of my speech. I said we support the increase in pensions. I also said, I didn't really say it, but now I'm going to say it, we're going to propose another mechanism for an increase in pensions, which will in no way harm the pensioners, but will have another effect and respond to the pension reform. What I have said and you have not heard it is that in order to take this decision, it is necessary to see what consolidation of the other expenditure in the budget must be done, where the implementation of the state's revenues will go in order for the increase of pensions to enter the macroeconomic framework of the budget as a whole. That's what I shared with you in my speech. Yes, indeed, pensioners are the people who will go on the market for basic food products and the most important things they need, but when you take this step within the framework of the general parameters of the budget, after you have foreseen measures in the area of revenue and expenditure, then it will not give a reflection. Mr. Cholakov, when a country is in trouble, the road is one. The prices are first raised; in second place taxes are raised; and finally, if this is not enough, the debt is raised. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u397	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Minister, and then I'll give you a short break. Mr. Ivanov, in the meantime, it turns out that time has been calculated, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u398	Mr. Ananiev, just two very short lines. You said to use your words that if pensions were raised, but the budget remained on the balance on which it was, this would not affect inflation. The budget remains on the balance sheet on which it is 4.1% of GDP [[Applause from.. Continue Change..]] so in your own words this should not affect inflation. The reason for this to happen, of course, is that there are a number of measures taken and a number of revenues have been reflected. If you think they are underestimated or overvalued, we can have the expert discussion between first and second readings in the Budget Committee. The other point I would like to make is that I think that most Bulgarian citizens would be happy to have the standard of living and the stability of Germany's finances. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u399	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm taking 15 minutes off, we'll start on time, and in the meantime, we'll make the time clarification for the groups. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u400	We're continuing the meeting with a little delay, but so, tighter, I think we'll end up as planned. Is Alexander Ivanov here? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u401	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Unprecedented is the situation in which, within a year, we are looking at a third budget, this has already been worn out. But what do we see in this budget, Mr. Ananiev? Other colleagues also commented that, unfortunately, there are no expected reforms, there are no high expectations for it. The news is, it's only third. But let's see how we got to this third budget and so how long and irrigation was advertised, colleagues, and it was advertised as anti-crisis and anti-inflation. I have been following the development of the debate for a long time with the compensation of 25 pennies per litre of fuel that the government promises to Bulgarian citizens. My logic or at least what was announced before the budget was formally introduced was saying that unfortunately, the measure will not work and I am still not optimistic. Colleagues, firstly, the measure cannot be called anti-inflation, nor can it be called fair. Enough experts and colleagues in the Chamber commented that 25 cents of compensation per litre, firstly, since a month ago, the government announced that fuel consumption would be supported, petrol-pond prices rose precisely with this amount. I mean, the government, setting aside $150 million. lv. by Bulgarian citizens, pensioners, because this is precisely the amount allocated to the compensation under this measure, this pen, this 150 million. lv. already in one form or another have been seized by Bulgarian citizens through their taxes, including Bulgarian pensioners, and are given to petrol stations or fuel producers in Bulgaria, and importers. Here the question sits with full strength and weight, colleague Dobrev has asked it many times through the media, and I will afford from the stands. Bulgaria and Lukoil are processing Russian oil and the price of Russian oil is around $80 a barrel this month. There really was a fluctuations in the price of fuel on the world markets, but the price is 30 dollars lower than Brent's oil. Colleagues, someone is taking one lev of overpriced from each liter of fuel even before it was produced, and still the price of excise duty and VAT on fuels has not been changed for so many years. The prices on the world markets have reached such levels, but then the price of the fuel of gasoline, of diesel, was one lev cheaper for the petrol companies. It's a good question to be answered by the government. At least these calculations for the expected price of oil are included in the formation of the macro-frame and the forecasts for the development of the economy and are taken into account in the preparation of the budget. But, colleagues, why is this measure, in particular, not fair to me? Because agree, colleagues, that a fuel user... By the way, here are extended users, listed are several types of fuels - gasoline A 95, gas oil without additives, liquefied petroleum gas, it is gas for cars, and natural gas, i.e. methane. I'm worried that people who charge their cars to methane will not be able to use this measure, because then when signing it it is written that the compensation is 25 cents per litre of fuel. I don't drive a methane car, but as far as I know, there's the excise duty, and the price, and the way it's sold to the gas stations is in kilograms, and maybe it's nice to look between first and second reading, if you want this measure to be supported. But you don't answer why or who raised the price. This early announcement of this measure perhaps stimulates petrol stations to raise the price of petrol for Bulgarian citizens, which means the result will ultimately be zero against them. While the price of fuels a year and several months ago was BGN 1.60. for a liter of the most mass gasoline....................................................................................................... Colleagues, one person with a car for half a million levs and one with a car for 5000 levs. they will receive equal compensation from the State. You might want to focus more on this measure. It is certainly not inflammatory because it does not limit consumption in any way and compensates equally and someone with high incomes, with an expensive car, but someone with low income, to whom these 25 pennies of compensation will solve some of its problems and give it the opportunity to continue to use normal volume, and to move at least to their workplace or to drive the children to school. By fixing it, it's 150 million to me. BGN collected by all Bulgarian citizens and given to someone who has a car and in one form or another, colleagues, this is at least unfair. Me and yesterday's debate started with this and I said it. I would like to see my colleagues on both the left and the right side of the House, and there are colleagues who are from green formations in the ruling majority, and I would like to ask them how they will support such a measure that stimulates the consumption of liquid fuels, how ecological is that? Specially there was a conversation in the Budget Commission and Mr. Vassilev found a contact point with the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Manufacturers, importers and processors, where there is a betting of an excise calendar, which over time will increase the price of excise duty on liquid cigarettes, cigarettes, cut tobacco, smokeless tobacco products. As I understand it, during the debate at first reading, some agreement was reached in the eyes of all MPs that this measure will be postponed, that is, the lifting of excise duty will be postponed by two months. Well, yeah, but these revenue from expected excise duties, which are also included in the estimates of budget formation, these two months I'm interested in how much they're going to cost as a minus, because with a light hand they drop revenue from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u402	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for a line. Mr. Ananiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u403	Mr. Ivanov, you very rightly said that one of the anti-crisis measures is actually falsely branded as anti-crisis, in fact it is a measure of subsidization from the budget of over-profits of gas stations chains, or more precisely the owners of petrol stations, as seen in the last few weeks, but you failed to give an opinion on the other measures, to comment on the other measures. Please do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u404	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, my reply is to you regarding the claim that the fuel measure is not targeted. You said a car worth 500,000. BGN, you can also use one car for 5000 BGN, figuratively. That's not true, Mr. Ivanov. One car for 500,000. lv. it uses higher-octane fuels, i.e. what is called premium fuels. The measure is limited only to ordinary fuels. There is no way that a customer who drives a new, expensive car, on which the service book says to drive at least with 100-octane fuel, to switch to a simple, ordinary 95. This is the main user filter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u406	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Third line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u407	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Mr. Ivanov, I was a little surprised by the fact that at the end of your speech you stated why people with cars should be supported and almost money for liquid fuels should be given, given that the car gives people economic activity and it hasn't been some luxury commodity for a long time, it is a necessity. Of course, it is important to assist everyone, no matter how much the state can afford..... whether it is 25 pennies, 25 pennies at the moment can afford. I agree with the part where you said you had to do an audit and see in fact why prices are so high, is there any way you could influence it to reduce, but asking why people need a car, I think... Yeah, there are people without a car. You asked: does everyone have one? Yes, maybe there are people who don't have a car, older people, pensioners and so on, but that doesn't mean that those who are economically active and need a car to go to work, make a living and everything else, can't take advantage of this measure, as it is aimed at Bulgarian individuals in order to help them, no matter how much they are helped. Right now it's 25 cents, next year, if there's more, we'll help them with more. It's a matter of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u408	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u409	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues replicating! Mr. Valchev, I'm brief on the other measures. That's why I stressed this 25-penny compensation for gasoline, and I said it was unfair, pro-inflation and untargeted. The same applies to the flat-rate VAT measure promoted by the management for bakery products. First for me will create very big problems when treating VAT which is exactly bread. Is the ketone that sells for 50 leva? And 12% VAT, from it will be deducted as an anti-inflation measure, maybe so, pastries, tolumics, cakes, cheesecakes, I don't know. That's gonna be a problem for the revenue agency. I have claimed the most key, and certainly all experts think that this will not reduce the cost of bread, that is, if this measure is declared not to help citizens because it will not reduce the cost of bread, it would rather help producers of bread products. That's what I'd say. I'm just saying that the announced and in this budget, what I see as written, anti-crisis measures are one mouse. They simply will not perform their advertising, consumers will not see the expected effect for either bread or fuel. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, there are over-profits in my opinion. And you, doing this one month in advance, say that there is this compensation. I say again, the price of petrol-ponds in reducing even the price of oil on the world markets, especially the one used, processed in the Burgas refinery, decreased and the price of petrol-ponds increased, that is, the 150 million allocated there, instead of going perhaps for social activities, for extremely needy people, go to these chains 150 million. lv. And I say it's unfair, because a pensioner without a car will assist with that I will respond to Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Sabrutev, in Bulgaria we have seen quite expensive cars fighting both methane and gas, that is, we are also helping them. You know that's true. You're smiling, but you know it's true. You know that's true, and that's not fair. So we take from the pensioners and give to whoever has a car. For me this is a pro-inflation measure, you do not reduce consumption in this way. It strengthens by natural signs. This is simply an advertisement to the pension budget, which enough other colleagues have spoken about. I certainly think that we will find a more logical and more sustainable solution to increase the pensions of Bulgarian pensioners as the most affected by record inflation, but these measures will not reduce the cost of bread; these 25 cents of compensation, which are for 12 million litres of fuel, but as recorded, Mr. Minister in the law, they are also for a pound of methane. I just do it as an indication that this is how they will be paid, I tell you as a methodology, it is purely collegiate, the colleagues of the Ministry are here. So maybe some good intention of inability will not be realized, advertising will just end up on a defective product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u410	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I give the floor now to Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u411	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I asked earlier, I would like to use my line, someone from the age to come out and tell us at least one meaningful measure that they propose so that we can discuss it. We did not hear any answer to that question, of course, from Mr. Kostadinov, we did not expect from him. He has shown many times that he speaks untruths from the stand, but I want to ask someone else from the Economic Committee to come out and say one thing. They said they offered zero percent VAT to the small consumer basket. Here's the most critical proposal of our measures - zero VAT on bread. Why? Because yet we cannot control the final prices of bread and it is clear from the economic theory that when you reduce the VAT on bread, this value can remain with both manufacturers and buyers and end customers, right? The genius proposal of AGE was to give zero percent to a number of products that I claim would go bankrupt. Please, is there anyone in your group this large to come out and make a meaningful offer? That's my request. Use a line to give me a meaningful suggestion. Thank you. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u412	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Sabrutev, first line. Is there another line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mitev, I don't understand why you're worried that this measure of rebirth is going to go bankrupt. I remember the motives. The motive was that it would cost about 8 billion. lv. of the budget at 60 billion total budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u414	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Here you go, Mr. Mitev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u415	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Sabrutev! Yes, indeed the proposal was scandalous, as many proposals we have heard, and the claim of AGE that they will rule 51% alone in the next government. Well, I wish they did, because they obviously lied to their voters today because they voted with the parties they fought against. Resurrection says: we are fighting against GERB and DPS, today voted with them. Fact! Fact! If you are reunited with 51% in the elections, who will you make a government with?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u416	Are you telling this to Sabrutev? That's the back. Next statement - Irena Dimova, following it - Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u417	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I will only quickly explain to you the reason why the Coalition GERB-SDS to vote against the state budget, and I will only touch on one sector, and this is precisely the sector....................................................................... I'll save you the retrospect of what happened, or rather what didn't happen, in the sector. I will pay attention only to all the damage to the sector of farmers arising directly from the State Budget Act and the lost benefits of everything that is missing for the sector in it. You know that we were strongly opposed to increasing the minimum insurance income for farmers. During successive crises, when other European countries accept tax holidays for farmers for food security purposes, you have decided to increase the minimum insurance income of Bulgarian farmers. Do you know what the result is? A few thousand fewer farmers this year, which we have warned you about. To our criticism, your response was that money would be made available under the budget of the MCC, 5 million to pay the small farmers the increased security burden. What's the score? It's a complete lie. To this day, there is no sign of such support for small farmers who continue their status and continue to pay the increased social security contributions. At the same time, their colleagues, European farmers, went on a tax vacation. We are looking forward to the update of this budget again - there is no change in favour of supporting the increased security burden. Anything else about tax burdens, not to mention. We insisted on a low rate of food VAT in order tolerate consumer inflation and equal treatment of Bulgarian producers with our European colleagues. He didn't take it. We're looking at the update. There's only bread and nothing else. Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has not taken a measure to remove food VAT even as a temporary measure. Thus, the Bulgarian consumer will continue to pay the highest rate of VAT on food throughout the European Union. Although the budget does not decide the allocation and manner of funds between farmers, I would also like to point out to you the weakness of their subsequent allocation. The restrictions in the volume of the national aid holdings were removed, resulting in the fall of the unit rates and the smallest, while the political messages and speeches are heard only for small farmers, for domestic production, and the whole government has led to their drastic reduction, both farmers and domestic production. The heated greenhouses did not charge, there is no composite aid for energy carriers, the small livestock farms mainly reduce their flocks in general due to the lack of the same compositional form for feed and energy. Bulgarian lambs remained unsold, vegetables reduced their areas. The cherry picker started a lower buying price, and from today came information that the points for buying cherries are full and closed. This is your attitude towards agriculture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u418	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Let's run out of lines first, if there is. Here's a line, second line, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Still Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Dear Ministers, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Dimova, today we have learned from the Minister of Agriculture that an additional 168 million has been allocated. lv. for the sector...................................................................................... Finally, the rulers listened to the advice of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We have been pointing out for several months that for the sector of Agriculture there are no funds available as anti-crisis measures and we see that these criticisms of our governance today give their fruit. According to you, Mrs. Dimova, that 168 million. lv. will it be sufficient to cover the costs of farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u420	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Mr. Ganev, line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u421	Mrs. Dimova, I am extremely hesitant about whether to trust you or the Minister of Agriculture, because about half an hour ago he painted an apocalyptic situation in which this Parliament, when in a few weeks there will be pestilence, will be absolutely nothing in the sector of Agriculture, and most likely it suggests that the next parliament, when it starts working in autumn, will not be able to accept any of the necessary legislation and from 1 January to receive funds for agriculture. I ask you very much to clarify from the stand: are you very wrong, or was the minister merely speculating half an hour ago?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u422	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Third line, Mr. Tabutov. Here you go. Meanwhile, I would like to announce approximately the time of the parliamentary groups: Here you go, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Dimova, I would like to make two details regarding your speech. First of all, you said that the compensatory mechanisms in the sector of.......................... about producers are insignificant. You just heard from Minister Ivanov that they were twice what they were and explained that the total amount was about 450 million. The second clarification is regarding........................................................................................................... A compensatory form for energy in farmers had two directions: on the one hand, as domestic, and, on the other hand, as non-bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u424	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you go, for the coat, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bajram, I will reply to you as follows: perhaps you remember that in the review of the budget, our parliamentary group offered an additional 250 million to support farmers? This was therefore not accepted. 150 million have been accepted at the moment to increase. What's the score? Farmers are left with the only ones left unsupported for the increased multiple values of the input resources for food production in Bulgaria, the only ones who continued with the old aids, the old aids notified under a completely different market environment. At the same time, the European Commission came up with a proposal for a temporary measure of support for the war, which we heard the minister said, but currently Bulgaria has not submitted a notification of State aid. The update now has 150 million at stake, but they are extremely insufficient. And you know what? We have come to the point that for the first time in history industry organisations have gone personally and directly over the government, and they have gone to the European Commission and to the European Parliament to complain about the lack of funds. The funds at stake are absolutely and utterly insufficient. About what Minister Ivanov said. Yes, national funds are in more than the usual annual budgets in previous years, but I would like to tell you that even if we assume that on all three mechanisms the state will pay the maximum, the direct support received will simply reach the levels of direct support for their income in 2020, colleagues. I would also like to tell you something else because the Minister said that he expects twice the budget from Bulgaria's package of crisis measures. Minister, we didn't see that in the budget. Mr. Tabutov, I think I answered the line to Mr. Ganev. By finishing, I would like to tell you that this is really your attitude towards the sector..................and you are telling us that we are facing a food crisis, and at the same time you are doing nothing to save those who can get us out of it. This is your department. When I graduate, I'll tell you: when I leave here, know that politics is done with people, not against people. Because by listening to the minister and the picture that he painted us here about the sector, I'm really very worried and I think we live in some different time and we see things differently. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u426	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Minister Ivanov asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u427	Dear Mr. President, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've rarely heard so many lies uttered in 10 minutes. But you're lying! Why? If you had been careful and were in the Chamber, and you had read your budget, you would have seen that in the budget, the one we are looking at now is at 168 million. $700,000. lv. You haven't even bothered to read it. [[Noise and lines.]] If you had read the old budget, yesterday at the end of the day were paid to farmers 143.5 million. They've been paid off. Separately, if you had listened to me and were here in the Chamber, you would understand that in addition to the 168,5 million that are in the budget, we have generated more funds "European and national." With the total amount of the funds plus the two mechanisms, which is the compensatory mechanism, which you do not need to see in the budget, because they are in the budget of the State Fund of Agriculture and we have provided them, plus up to 5%, which, at the beginning of July, must become a fact with the amendment of the regulation of the "Rural Development Policy', the total amount of funds to be paid for the year is still 295 million plus these 143.5 million. You've told a lot of lies. Firstly, not in the budget of the Social Ministry, but in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture there are 5 million, with which we will compensate for the increase in these increased contributions because they are with us. When the National Statistical Institute and the National Statistical Institute give us, respectively, the data on how many farmers have paid contributions at an increased amount under the de minimis mechanism, these funds will be paid to them. So you've been to the Agricultural Commission and you know and don't read the documents like the gospel devil if you've ever read them. You're talking about low-receipt rates. Another lie. You know very well what the amount of European funds and national funds that are paid each year to farmers. This year they were paid in real amount. In 2021, more has been paid because the European Commission, by amending the Regulation, granted 40 million. euros that have been added and thus increased. You know that very well. That wasn't there this year. In contrast, last year at the end of the year, an aid of 80 million was paid. lv. Isn't that right? I'm not wrong, am I? This year, for the compensation of costs to farmers for the first half of the year yesterday, 143.5 million were paid. Yesterday, last night! And the biggest legend that's spread, which is an absolute lie that they've gone down. The aid has submitted 27,000 applications. 27 thousand farmers have been paid, which is in more than previous statements, and you know that very well. The rates on tied support are lower because they have stated more farmers and the areas are increased accordingly and hence decreased. The amount is one. Whoever understands this topic knows very well that the amount is fixed in the state budget, fixed as European aid. The more farmers there are, the less the areas are increased, the number of animals is increased and the rates are reduced accordingly. In 2020 you have compensated 2021 with European funds, and this year we have provided, if you vote, of course, because I am not sure that you will vote on this 168,5 million. I'm not sure. You're talking here to angro. You can give 300, 400 million. I've been opposition here for eight years and you've presented us with all kinds of budgets. Once I didn't see in your budgets there was one left on top of it. One of them! Do you understand me? One! It's 450 million this year. 450 million! That's it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This government gives 450 million to farmers to compensate them. And how many farmers does one Romania have? You know what? Do you know what the entire Romanian government program is like? Two hundred million euros. We're giving $450 million. BGN, they give 200 million. Anything? I guess I'm the one who's confused. Apparently the Romanians are way behind us with agriculture. I'm communicating with them, and I see what kind of program they've developed. Or do you live in some other parallel world, or is something else happening?! [[Heckling]] Yeah, they're not enough. We know they're not enough. Yes, I know you've brought in delegations. Your MEPs the MEPs of the DPS took the farmers, held meetings with them. These are your casion manufacturers, we know them, organizations. Now a new law will be passed for industry organizations and things will happen. And here, my colleague at the Resurrection asked why? To explain to him because the new agricultural programme, i.e. the Strategic Plan for the Development of Agriculture in Bulgaria, which should start from January 1, 2023, if there is no active Parliament.. because there are three laws to change in autumn, and if there is no active Parliament, there is no change in the laws, there is no agricultural programme, there is no subsidies. This is the result of your work, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u428	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Now the word has Mr. Martin Dimitrov and after him is Krasimir Valchev, if there is no change.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u429	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, it was correct, after listening to you all day very patiently, for each parliamentary group to say clearly and simply, do you support or do you not support the update of the budget and with what arguments. After many long hours of listening, this did not become clear to most parliamentary groups. Because, honourable Members, what is this about? If you do not support this budget update, this means that you do not support the update of pensions because according to art. 48, para. 2 and para. 4 of the Public Finance Act cannot be given new pensions without the adoption of the big budget. Therefore, responsibility must be borne, colleagues. Given the new situation in Parliament, it is right, and I call on you: at the end of this debate, let each group clearly say it. Here, for example, some colleagues said that they would not support at first reading, but had ideas for second reading. This is an extremely hypocritical position, because if it doesn't come to second reading, how are you going to give these ideas, people? You have wonderful ideas for sure, but if there is no second reading, what will happen to these good ideas of yours?! [[Noise and lines.]] Other colleagues from GERB came out a representative who said how worried he was about the big budget deficit. Shortly after it came out other colleagues of his who wanted hundreds of millions of additional expenses. Now, fellow Members, is this a consistent position? Can you at the same time be very worried about the budget deficit and your colleagues, your group, in the same meeting, asking for hundreds of millions of additional costs?! (Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.") I suggest, Mr. Ananiev, you can also give me a line, these colleagues to invite them from GERB, to talk to each other and to understand each other or one is true, or the other is either the problem or the deficit is the problem, or additional costs should be given in certain areas because the other is not honorable. Maybe for people who are clueless, it sounds good, but it's not fair to talk like that. A little has been said about important key reforms. I hope that whatever life is, colleagues, in this Parliament, key reforms will happen. For example, the VAT registration threshold is a bill that has passed today on the Budget Commission. Congratulations to my colleagues! It's in the arguments to the budget update. This is the most important reform for the small business that we can now do, and I call on all of us to participate in its realization. Here a colleague from GERB said what a big problem fuel prices are. However, I agree, colleagues, but I have a very important question for you: what is the institution in Bulgaria that can sanction non-market practices on the fuel market? Who is this institution because I can only think of the CDC, colleague? I can't think of anyone else, and if you think of anyone else, I invite you here from the stands to explain. I can't think of another institution that would sanction non-market practices in the fuel market, and this KPC for six years, unfortunately, has no important results. Specially for the fuel market from the "Democratic Bulgaria" we submitted together with colleagues from other parliamentary groups a bill that we will further present for more competition. This is one of the measures that will help through more competition, fuel prices to become lower. So this is another important reform effort. A third important reform effort is the reduction of interest on late payments. The draft budget proposes to make it from 10 to 8% plus the OLP. The interest rate plus 8, i.e. to have a reduction of two percentage points. Minister of Finance, Mr. Vassilev, there is an opportunity, by reading your position of the Ministry of Finance, to have a differentiation of this interest for citizens and businesses, as is in some European countries. As you have pointed out in your position, this is a topic on which it makes sense to make more effort because, when a person is late with payments, this interest makes him an eternal debtor and goes to the collectors, as some colleagues wrote a bill for collectors. But let's make sure that people don't go to the collectors, cover their obligations, not to burden themselves with the highest interest rate in the European Union. So commendable is your effort, but one more step can be made and this is another key reform which, along with the VAT registration threshold, unfortunately, has not happened for the past 20 years, and now there is a chance for it and together we have to do it. Finally, my fellow Members, I call on you to be honest, those who have not told each other in the remaining minutes simply to say that we support, or we do not support the update of the budget. Because the other one, they're kind of beautiful words, without a clear position. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u430	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, Mr. Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u431	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! What you didn't understand maybe last fall is that the best social policy is to help business. To be helped with maximum compensation for electricity, to the maximum extent to be cheaper gas, because we have a supply crisis, because the problem is with the added value of business, because it is the best social policy. As paradoxical as it may sound, right now the best social policy is to help businesses. The other thing you're offering is demagogy. Pump inflation and go after it. You're pumping again, and you're going after her again, and people are still negative. And the more social measures you offer us, the more antisocial your budget is. That's what you're offering us. The more... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u432	Take it easy, guys. You're gonna make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u433	...social measures, that's what your demagogy is. This is your demagogy because your inflation is more than what you offer as an increase. And it's going to be even more, because the producer's prices, the manufacturer's inflation is 40%, and we're not going to stop with that 15%, and we're still going to need an update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u434	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Now, wait a minute, Mr. Minister, let's see if there's any lines. Here's a line, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u435	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members. Mr. Valchev, as former Minister of Education, how do you evaluate the proposals in the sector of Education?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u436	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Angov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u437	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Dear Mr. Valchev, unfortunately, I replicate you despite the collegiate relations we've had. But I see a fierce struggle of GERB against all measures that concern all people. I'm explaining why. So, GERB wants to have some add-ons who can download any moment so that they can keep people on a tight leash. GERB wants this for pensions... [[Heckling]] I say what they criticize. This is for pensions, this is for all workers in the medical sector. But they want to have some add-ons that you can control so you can control some people. And you know why this is because you're most afraid of free people. From free people who are independent and who can have their own opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u438	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Valchev, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u439	Mr. Angov, and I, in spite of our collegiate relationship, didn't understand which add-ons you were talking about. We've seen some add-ons that have priced the gas and additionally pumped inflation. Regarding education, what to comment on, there is no lev, neither for education nor for science. Education expenditures fall as a percentage of the gross domestic product, which was 4,5%, i.e. the change, you can see in the synonymary dictionary, one of the meanings is a return return. One of the synonymous nests. We have a return from the point of view of education spending as a percentage of gross domestic product, with a percentage of gross costs falling from 10.7% to less than 10%. It has no social development costs at all. There's no culture, there's no mass sport. None of the three growth factors that were explained to us by Porter Mr. Vassilev's theory about institutions, human capital, is not in this budget. Neither do we have investment in physical capital, nor do we have investment in human capital, nor do we have institutional reforms. It's a budget that's a total failure. And a budget that's not social. A budget that will further aggravate people's well-being. You say, "Tell them." Why don't you tell them that there will be at least another 15% inflation in the coming months. Because 40% price inflation per producer cannot fail to affect sooner or later at least 30% inflation in consumer prices. And that's the honest conversation. But you don't, and you're in a pre-election situation and you're speculating with social groups. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u440	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u441	Mr. Valchev, I don't know if you're tracking industrial production, its actual growth is over 30% year-on-year. His true stature! Without counting the higher prices. The same thing applies to exports. We've had the highest exports since we even measured exports. As for social payments, your philosophy we know, you developed it very long and wide when we adopted the budget. Your philosophy is to leave the pensioners under the poverty line, they can handle themselves any way they want, so there's some money for some companies, like you said. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u442	For the procedure, Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u443	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! To you, Mr. Chairman. The situation is unusual because it is obvious that the new majority wants to sabotage this budget and in the context of the previous conversation many people have come to the National Assembly. They want Mr. Tosko Yordanov, Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, GERB and DPS [[(encouraging, Applause by BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] to explain to them the new formula of the budget, the new formula of the majority, the new formula of coalition relations in this Parliament. So, apart from this tribune, right here, a few meters away, we can get out, too. People are waiting for that explanation. [[Noise, lines, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u444	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Maybe I'll give it a rest for that, but... In a manner of conduct, please, Mr. Tsonev. Then there's Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To explain to some colleagues who should have... explained to some colleagues who either don't understand or pretend they don't understand that there's no coalition relationship when there's no governance. Coalition is concluded for management. A coalition for opposition is today's invention in political... at all in political science on a global scale. Well, of course there'll be a coalition of opposition when you need to be criticized and taken down. But it's in every parliament. However, the word coalition is and means when it is done to govern the country. I thought you guys were doing stuff at the mall. So all these ditherms that there's a coalition, the new coalition, no, we're just gonna take you out of power because that's why the voters sent us here. To be an opposition...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u446	...the procedure came out a little bit and she...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u447	... To be an opposition... It's for you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u448	To me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u449	You shouldn't have let your colleague here ask, explain the new formula, the old formula. The formula is as follows: there is a coalition in parliament that has failed. There's an opposition whose job it is to criticize the government and by spoiling its management formula, to take it out of power. And that's exactly what we're gonna do. And I'll tell you one more thing, one more thing to tell you. Power is taken with protests, does not stay with protests. Write it down somewhere from Yordan Tsonev. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u450	You'll probably be quoted at next folk meetings, Mr. Tsonev. Because it was procedure for me, it's probably true that there is no opposition coalition, but some kind of partnership must have, otherwise it's not possible. Isn't that right? And we feel it already, not just by voting today. So no matter what we call what, content is important. He wanted Mrs. Atanasova for the procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By trivial procedure, not in the way you're led. Dear colleagues, in relation to the requirements of art. 107, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure we propose to adopt a decision on the basis of art. 42, para. 3 to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 19 June at 10:00 on the following agenda: 1. Discussion and adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. 2. Discussion of the reasons for the draft decision, No 47 254 02-70, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u452	Now you're kind of surprising me with this project. Wait, wait. Now we need to see what the Rules say, we will open to... Rule 49 reads: On procedural matters as was yours, the word is given immediately, unless there are requests for a reply, a duplicate or an explanation of a negative vote. Alinea 1 was carried out. Alinea 2 The proceedings are the matters which object to a specific violation of the procedure for holding the meetings provided for in these Rules, or which contain proposals for amendment and supplement to the agreed order for development of the meeting, including those for termination of the meeting, postponement of the meeting, termination of the deliberations, postponement of the deliberations, postponement of the vote. Now, your proposal does not enter into any of these hypotheses. [[Noise, lines and applause]] So there's no way I'm putting it to the vote. [[Noise, lines and applause]] The decision you have read must be submitted to the National Assembly's Office and possibly examined at tomorrow's meeting if it is included on the agenda by the President. It's my understanding of compliance with the rules that... [[noise, lines and applause]] ...read. So I suggest we continue the discussion for now. Come in, Mr. Tsonev. What's the matter? Way to go, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u453	If we're going to read our rules, Mr. Chairman, let's read aloud then. Art. 42 of the Rules of Chapter VII, para. 3 says: The National Assembly may decide to hold extraordinary meetings on a provisional agenda during a session, but outside the days of para. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1. The days of para. One, of course, is Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u454	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u455	Extraordinary meetings can be held at any time in the event of exceptional circumstances. "We have already announced at the Chairman's Council what the exceptional circumstances are. If you want, we'll announce them here. Maybe we'll ask our ISN colleagues not to take their word for it, they'll announce it, but it doesn't matter. There are such extraordinary circumstances and the Rules allow, and also the parliamentary practice that... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u456	Please, colleagues, let's listen to each other! This is serious enough!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u457	Because I'm talking about parliamentary practice, is there a colleague who wants to come and argue? To come, yes, especially from the PP.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u458	To me, Mr. Tsonev, do not enter into a discussion with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u459	Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't have come in if there was silence, but I can't yell at myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u460	I'm trying, just don't talk to them, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u461	No, no, try, because I didn't feel you were trying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u462	I'm doing my best.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u463	Thank you. I appreciate your co-operation very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u464	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u465	So this proposal must be submitted and I repeat it on behalf of our parliamentary group that we want with this agenda on the basis of art. 42, para. 3 to vote on an extraordinary meeting on Sunday because it meets the regulations and there are exceptional circumstances. And this is not the order in which it is submitted in writing and decided, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u466	After all, Mr. Tsonev, it is a matter of interpretation by the President of the Assembly or the Chairman. I believe that the hypothesis that you are referring to fits as far as, yes, indeed the National Assembly can decide this, but there is no written procedure, and I explained why this is not possible in the way that you are doing it, which is how you want to do it. I therefore propose that we proceed with the discussion on the budget and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to make the relevant proposals to be discussed tomorrow. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "Democratic Bulgaria".]] You are ordered, Mr. Karadayi, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest that we pay a little more serious attention to this issue. There is a changed majority in the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] Today the government has no majority in the National Assembly. As I understand it, and from today's debates, today's government has problems with communication, inside the coalition, several times said it. From this point of view, Mr. Chairman, I think we don't need to vote in resignations of National Assembly presidents every day until someone does. [[(crowd cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and cheering and ……]] understands that in politics there is a logical and normal course of processes, when there is a majority in the National Assembly, there is a elected government and hence we have seen a certain arrogance the last five or six months. Normally, you did, not that it was okay, but you did. It's a different picture right now. Apart from all the crises in the country, there is already a political crisis. To resolve the political crisis, neither arrogance nor insolence nor personal interpretations will work. And responsible attitude and behaviour will help to overcome both the political crisis and the search for solutions and economic crises and all the problems that are present in society. Therefore, my call is to pay serious attention to this proposal that has been made. Moreover, I would suggest an additional point in the extraordinary sitting if it were to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u468	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. [[Noise and lines.]] One moment, I still have to answer. We just voted on the resignation of the President of the National Assembly because he complied with the Rules in practice. I do not object to you removing me as Vice-President of the National Assembly, but just because there is a new majority from today does not mean that the National Assembly should be turned into a convention in which a new majority will trample the Rules and Rules. [[We are continuing the Change, the BSP for Bulgaria.......................... and........................................................................... Commendations: "Mafia! "]] Please, guys! There are clearly written rules in the Rules, which are followed in the years in which it is clear that there is no way for this government to pass without the discussion on his resignation and without the vote on it, there are deadlines on it. There are also rules on which the National Assembly is working, the responsibilities of the President in this case. And that is why I propose that we follow our rules, do things the way they should be, because at least we have tough weeks ahead of us, a few tough weeks where, if we want to keep a little bit of Parliament's dignity, we stick to the rules. I therefore ask you to put an end to the discussion on this proposal, which is unacceptable, and to proceed with the discussion on the budget, with the vote on the budget. And what needs to be done, I've already mentioned it. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] As President, I consider that the Rules are applied in this way, I understand. I understand you want something else, but I think so. [[(We continue the Change, the BSP for ……]] Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, in the manner of conduct. You have one second now, Mrs. Atanasova, but still.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u469	How's one second?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u470	Well, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u471	My procedure is the way I conduct myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u472	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u473	Mr. Chairman... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u474	Let them lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u475	Please, guys! No, don't wait. They'll lead, just as soon as we're done... Yeah, yeah. No, I'll stay here until I can follow the rules. I'm not giving up this place so someone can come and break the rules. If they want to hit on me. [[(We continue the Change, the BSP for ……]] You threatened us with circuses earlier. The circuses made them. Why is that necessary, I don't understand?! [[Noise and lines.]] Please, guys! Please, colleagues, let's take our seats and try to calm the situation down. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Please, Mr. Svilensky, let's not set precedents today. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u476	I urge you to follow the rules indeed. I would applaud you, too, if you would follow them, to have order in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] If you please, colleagues, there is no need for these screams.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u477	Don't engage in dialogue, Mrs. Atanasova! Finish it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way you're led. Mr President, the proposal that I have made is based on another basis set out in the Rules and not on this for the written submission to the National Assembly of a proposal for an agenda. I know well that you understand that. And with the experience of some mixed interpretation, you are not helping much to vote on this procedure, nor obviously on the atmosphere in this House, Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, if we find it difficult to find the provisions in the Rules and yet to interpret them, I would advise you to go back to parliamentary practice. In both the forty-first and the second and the third, and the fourth and fifth and sixth, and the seventh people's assembly, there were such procedures. Most of all, you can refer to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u479	Get it over with, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u480	...of procedures at the forty-second National Assembly when... [[Noise and lines.]] There are shorthands, colleagues, you can meet them. ... Members of parliament have made such proposals in plenary and, naturally, on the basis of the Rules and the Constitution, the National Assembly, i.e. the majority in plenary, may take any decision, including for an extraordinary meeting. And there is absolutely nothing extraordinary here, Mr. Chairman. You must put this procedure to the vote and, of course, the House depends on what the decision will be. I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u481	Mrs. Atanasova, I think we understand your point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u482	...if you follow the rules and regulations, and I hope you do, Mr Vigenin, at least demonstrate that you are bringing order to your parliamentary group, you will put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u483	Mrs. Atanasova, I've already broken the rules by giving you the floor, even though you didn't have time, but I think it was important. I have stated that in the way in which the rules in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly are written, in this way done, the proposal is inadmissible for voting today. [[(We continue the Change, the BSP for ……]] There is no signed procedure, but you yourself said it was a draft decision. The draft decisions shall be submitted to the Court of Justice, shall be distributed, or may be proposed directly in the Chamber by the President, but this may be done tomorrow. I'm not putting this motion to the vote today, so... [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Yeah, I can't put it to the vote. I have read you in the Rules of Procedure what it is possible to do. That is how I understand it as presiding over the sitting, and that someone has ever interpreted it in any other way and felt that it could then violate the Rules of Procedure, is no reason for me to do it today. Moreover, compliance with the Rules, and also in the Constitution, and there, if you open, you will see that it may be unconstitutional what is written in the Rules, but whatever. The point is that under our Rules I cannot put it to the vote now and I suggest you follow the procedure I have proposed to you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", and "Democratic Bulgaria".]] I suggest we continue with the remaining, one thought, statement. Vladimir Marinov wanted a statement? He's giving up. Mr. Chobanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the situation, we must also be responsible to the people, including those outside, and you must be honest enough to tell them where you are taking the state. Apart from the debt spiral, you led her into a liquid crisis, you didn't issue the debt in time. At the moment, the situation in the markets has changed very much, their prices are falling today, government debt yields are rising. Germany is now at 1.8% of their debt. The difference with Bulgaria is 2.2% today, 4% would be the debt at the moment most likely if you had issued. If we issue it in September, as we are currently closing our markets, we closed our door, slammed it with this behaviour of the finance minister, who does not listen to any advice that did not come out of the markets in time, which cannot do so now, if we go out in September, then we will already have to pay 7% on this government debt. This is a huge burden for the Bulgarians and instead of this money to go for some social measures, to go to improve people's lives in the way you conduct public finances, you have brought us there. And, Mr. Ananiev, I will address you. You're right about tax increases, debt increases, but the way they run it follows the International Monetary Fund. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u485	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any lines to that statement? Here's a line for you, Mr. Bayram.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prof. Chobanov, when we adopted the budget, you had given a very accurate forecast that inflation would increase. At the time, the rulers laughed.. they almost laughed, but we see that inflation is now a two-digit number. You said the debt would go up again. You said that in the coming years, a larger deficit is likely to be expected and that's where things are going. What are the risks to the Bulgarian economy in the medium term and can you give a new forecast for the future of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u487	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u488	I can't promise not to scream, I promise not to hit the table. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Bajram, at the moment it is very difficult to make such forecasts because the situation on the international markets is really very turbulent because of the fact that central banks are increasing interest rates sharply, because they also realize what the risks are and what inflation will lead to. It will lead to the impoverishment of people, it will lead to social protests, it will lead to the fall of governments across Europe! In this difficult situation, a series of farcees are being played before us and are trying to manage public finances with slogans. That's not gonna happen. We have to be responsible. I went out on this stand to warn the risks. Be careful with liquidity, be careful to really keep money, not because the state can't afford it, but because it can't be read; because we've come to a situation where, in the accounts, the left-wing ones, the government had only 500 million left. lv. If that happens when pensions are due, there will be no money for pensions. So we have to take these processes very seriously, we have to treat them responsibly. It won't work with yelling, it won't work with slogans. Unfortunately, as I said, at the moment we closed our door to international markets and soon there is no way to open it. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u489	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] Mr. Vassilev, let's make your statement after the break, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u490	I just need to answer for 30 seconds for Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u491	I have to hand it over as soon as it's requested, even though the group didn't have time. Fifteen-minute recess, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u492	Let me just tell Mr. Chobanov that we have 9 billion in the account right now. [[Lowered noise from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u493	No way, Mr. Vassilev. Then you'll explain to him in more detail. Thank you. I'm sorry about that. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u494	Colleagues, please hurry up and take our seats in the hall. There's not much left for today. Colleagues, we're about to vote, so I'd really like you to take your seats. Most groups don't have time anymore. The DPS has the most time. And we continue the Change there is, yes. All right, we'll continue the hearing. [[National Representative Venko Sabrutev wants the floor.]] For a statement? For procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Until we get together, a quick procedure. They've gathered outside, Mr. Chairman, a lot of people are looking for Toshko Yordanov. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I just wanted to tell her to come out and talk to her!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u496	Mr. Sabrutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u497	Okay, tough guy, come on, come with me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u498	Wait a minute. One moment, Mr. Yordanov, wait a minute for the vote first and then. I propose that with such procedures we stop. We continue the discussion if there is a desire to speak from the groups that have time. I can't see. I press the voting button and end the discussion on the bill. The hero of today is Mr. Letifov, we must say because... [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Well, maybe yesterday, but today you're in front of my eyes more and that's why. You take your place faster than many of your colleagues who are somehow slowing down the hallways. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, No 47-202-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. Vote 236 MPs: 132, against 103, abstention 1. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The motion is accepted. [[Reply: "Prevoting! "]] Maybe a re-vote. Please, re-election mode. They voted 237 MPs: 133, against 104, no abstentions. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] That concludes this item on the agenda. That was also the schedule for the day. [[Reply from MP Jayhan Ibryamov.]] For a negative vote? Excuse me. Please, colleagues, let's wait. There's a negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u499	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not an economist, and I'm gonna talk like an ordinary citizen who walks into the store. The projected inflation in this budget is about 12%, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. However, the forecast inflation of the European Union for Bulgaria is much more, it is 15 - 16%. Most likely the predicted inflation will pass 20%. So we are thinking about something that is fiction, thinking about something that would be at another time. In other words, the whole debate is meaningless because of different economic conditions in the country in which we live. Colleagues, we enter the cheese shop, we expect it to cost 15 leva, but it turns out to be 19 leva. After all, we're buying our cheese. We're going for meat, we've set aside 10 leva, but it's worth 15. And what's the point of making an estimate of 30 BGN and costing 50 BGN? It's pointless. This budget is fiction, as I said. What is the point of such a budget, ladies and gentlemen of the House? What is the point of such a budget in both revenue and expenditure? We are now the sixth month of this government and this is a second update. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] By the end of the year, how many more updates will we want to see, ladies and gentlemen of the House? No one can tell you. Therefore, as in the morning debate and in the budget debate, we say the government must leave. Today I saw the sparks in the eyes of the Minister of Finance when he was defending power. You mean you wanted to preserve power. I'd like to see the flame in the eyes of this budget, but all we see are coals that have gone out and no one needs it. In order for this government not to suffer, it is best to leave and resign. A new government to make a budget for real revenue and expenditure. I'll say again, I'm not an economist, I'm an ordinary citizen who walks into the store, and that's why this budget won't go to me. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-16.u500	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. That's what we're running out of item on the agenda. Next meeting tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
