ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u1	Colleagues, please register. Colleagues online are: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u3	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u5	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u7	Thank you. 202 MPs in the hall and 3 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Draft of the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 16 to 18 February 2022: "1." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Register Act. Importers are Atanas Slavov, Iva Miteva, Stoyu Stoev, Stoil Stoilov and Philip Popov on 28 January 2022. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2022. First vote was adopted on 3 February 2022. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. He was accepted in the first vote on 12 January 2022. 4. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer is the Budget and Finance Committee on 14 February 2022. 5. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer is the Budget and Finance Committee on 14 February 2022. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. They are: Mustafa Karadayi, Yordan Tsonev and Delyan Peevski on January 11, 2022; the Council of Ministers on January 18, 2022; Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski, Hamid Hamid and Yordan Tsonev on January 20, 2022. Point 1 for Thursday, 17 February 2022 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022. Adopted in first vote on 10 February 2022. Point 2 for Thursday, 17 February 2022 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 December 2021. Point 3 for Thursday, 17 February 2022 9. Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022. Point 4 for Thursday, 17 February 2022 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. "Friday, 18 February 2022, at 9.00 p.m. Please, voting mode. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u9	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u11	And Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u12	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u13	Thanks, guys. They voted 203 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online " 206" total: 163 in the Chamber and 3 online " 166" total, against 19, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We also have a proposal in the order of art. 47, para. Three of the subs, but before that, we have procedures. Mr. Ebatine first. I'm so sorry, Mr. Ibryamov, I'm confused. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take your joke with a smile. Mr. Chairman, the National Assembly in democratic Bulgaria is the highest authority compared to all others in the lower bodies of the state, and you as President of the National Assembly, as the first among equals, are the person who should lead the National Assembly in a proper manner. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 of our Rules on the Work and Organization of the Activities of the National Assembly, as well as in art. 138 we have voted that when MPs ask for information about problems concerning our society and our state, from the lower authorities in this country, they should be provided in due order, but we have a precedent. On 15 December 2021, the President of the Committee for Rights and Freedoms asked for such information from Minister Boyko Rashkov, and we see and we have all witnessed in this Chamber and in the society that the answer to this question is still missing and there is correspondence. We are confident of your qualities as a good lawyer, and we see that you are doing well to lead the National Assembly. In this regard, Mr President, we ask you to be so kind and ask the lower authorities in this country to be so kind as to provide relevant information to the Members of the National Assembly in due order so that we can acquaint the public and our constituents with relevant questions to the ministers in this country. I hope that, as soon as possible, in order to restore normality in this country, and I believe that governance does not want abnormal governance in this country, and that the matter will be corrected and that we will receive the relevant answers asked by our President of the. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. I'm sorry again for mistaking your name. In respect of art. Art. 111, Art. 138 of the Rules of Procedure providing information under these two texts does not fall within the scope of parliamentary control, in the part of..................................................................................... Mladen Shishkov was the first one for the procedure. Mr. Karadayi, Mr. Shishkov gives you the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u16	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We now understand and have just heard from the President of the National Assembly that parliamentary control does not include asking for documents from ministers?! And how will we carry out the parliamentary control, we will clearly limit order only to questions and questions, and we will most likely understand the oral answers according to the President, which will not be the answer to the questions asked. Mr. Chairman, we have another specific question sent specifically to Minister Rashkov because Mr. Behchet Emurlov is interested in whether the National Assembly is controlling the executive power and the outrage committed by the Ministry of Interior during the elections in July and November, and personally over it. And what is the result of the response, because, ladies and gentlemen, the request for documents from the ministers is not parliamentary control over the understandings of our President?! Mr. Chairman, I assure you and Mr. Zarkov, if he is here in this Chamber, that questions and questions will no longer be 20,000, as I told you the other day. So, according to your understanding, be convinced that no matter how much life this National Assembly has, we will make sure that the potential number of questions and questions and the request for documents is already oriented towards 40 thousand. One option will be a question or a question, and the other option will be a request for documents, but this process will continue until this National Assembly has life, because this fascism in action and every accomplice in this process must receive what is deserved! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I just wanted to say that Art. Art. 111, Art. 138 are not in the section of the questions and questions that are realized through the President of the National Assembly. That's what I wanted to say by both regulations. We can discuss the questions. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My procedure is the way it is and it's a little different. At the beginning of this Parliament, the current prime minister said that he would make a new sense in the words of the People's Representative. I want to tell you what the new meaning of these words is. Yesterday at 3 p.m., the Environment and Water Committee received a message that this morning, at 8:30 p.m., there will be an extraordinary meeting before the meeting of parliament. I've been a MP for nearly five years, but I don't remember anything like this ever happening before. Anyway, we accepted it. It is clear the importance of the issue of examining the Water Act. It is urgent, we agreed, we were present in the Commission, but during the Commission's meeting all of a sudden, without being warned, texts are proposed in the report voted, which were not sent to the MPs at all, we were not aware of them at all, and it was a serious reform that was actually proposed in the State Budget Act, but given the requests that these texts will be withdrawn from the State Budget Act, they are proposed in the Water Act. It is about the transformation of the structures of BAS and of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to switch to the structures of MOEW. We do not even comment on whether it is appropriate or not, but the way in which it was proposed and in this order, without being proposed, and the President inserts texts for which we do not have information, so please pay attention to the work of the Committee Chairs. What's happening right now is absurd! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov, for mentioning this case, I wasn't aware of it. We'll check it out. Mr. Dobrev, come in, and Mr. Letifov too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since last week, one item has remained unattended, this item is the Draft Decision on a compensatory mechanism for non-bit customers of electricity and gas, which are public organisations. To remind you, Mr. President, what is this point, this is the point that has remained since Friday, and if it wasn't for attempts to delay time with breaks, reading Mr. Karimanski here from the stands, including the commas of the texts of a bill, and then, if you remember, it became so funny to you that you were hiding your face with leaves, so for this point we're talking, it stayed from last week. In the Programme for this week we do not see it again and I do not understand whether because you do not think it is important for the Bulgarian society, or are you afraid of being examined this point in plenary?! But whoever the right answer is, it's dishonest, Mr. Chairman. So my procedure is for you and I ask: why this item is not on the agenda, even more so, my colleague Alexander Nenkov told me that yesterday under art. 47, para. 3 of our Rules explicitly suggested that this item be placed on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u21	Thank you, I do, yes. We'll get to the proposals under art. 47, para. Three, just before we hear from Mr. Letifov. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way you're led. I'll read to you. 138, which, you notice, Mr. President, is in Section XI " Members of the National Assembly," Section I.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 138. The State and local authorities and their administrations shall cooperate with the National Representative and provide him, upon request, with information and documents relating to the exercise of the powers. The Member of the National Assembly shall have the right of access to state and local authorities and organisations. Would you please tell me in which order the public representative, in case this is in his power, may request documents, information, facts in the performance of his duties, obtain the information he wants from the Ministry of Interior? Because at the moment it turns out that all Members who are related to the activities of the Member of the National Assembly with the specific case are invalid and ineffective. I will ask you in writing to inform us and to instruct us how we can fulfil our official duties and obtain the requested information, which under the Constitution is required to give to the National Assembly and to the Members of the National Assembly all state and local authorities and organizations in our home country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. It is not through the President that the procedure under art. 138.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u24	May I?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u25	Maybe, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u26	I'll make a procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, there is also art. 111 in our regulations, which was edited by the forty-seventh National Assembly. I would also like to respect it if any of the Members of the National Assembly is not aware of it: all state officials from the state and municipal administration and citizens are obliged to provide information and documents in relation to the Council, Mr President, the questions subject to hearings in the committees, even when the information is state or official secrecy, and to appear at the invitation of the National Assembly. The existence of administrative, judicial and other pending proceedings before an authority shall not prevent the provision of information and documents or the hearing of the persons invited by the committees. In refusing to fulfil constitutional obligations, legal responsibility shall be exercised. Colleagues, the committees are the National Assembly, and the National Assembly, asking for documents, then what is going on? And we've requested these documents and they're related, Mr. Chairman, to an upcoming hearing of the Minister. Because on these topics there will be a hearing.. it is very clear. Once we get acquainted with the documents, it won't be the end of this matter. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, my procedural proposal is: at a convenient time for you to convene a Chairmanial Council, as I believe it is under art. 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Just let me find him. Art. 103 of the Rules of Procedure say that when you return questions, their objections are considered by the Chairman's Council of Presidents to clarify the subject matter and the questions and whether the request of documents by ministers and state authorities constitutes parliamentary control over the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u27	Thank you. Art. 111 concerns parliamentary hearings under Section III of the Rules of Procedure and Section I is about questions, questions and debates on questions from where your request is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u28	When will the Conference of Presidents be?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u29	It was a while ago. Next Wednesday, he'll be back on schedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u30	Thank you. Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u31	The proposals under art. 47, para. 3. The first proposal received is from the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. On the basis of art. 47, para. 3 propose for inclusion as a item on the agenda for the plenary week submitted Draft for a decision of the National Assembly. No 47-254-02-6, of 14 January 2022, repealing a previous decision of the National Assembly on access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an emergency epidemic situation. Please vote on the inclusion in the program for the week the proposal of Peter Petrov and a group of MPs. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u32	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u33	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u34	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u35	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u36	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u37	Vote 204 MPs in the Chamber plus 3 online. 207 total: 108 against 84 in the Chamber and 2 online. 86 total, abstention 12 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online. 13 total. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u38	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u39	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u40	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u41	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u42	Yeah. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u43	Who couldn't vote? [[Heckling]] Mrs. Angelkova is in for a ride, okay. They voted 210 MPs registered through the computerised system, plus 3 online, also taking into account Mrs Angelkova's voice 214: for 111 via the computerised system and 1 MP online, Mrs Angelkova also has a total of 113, 87 against through the computerised system and 2 online system 89, abstentions 12. The motion is accepted. It is not specified exactly where to enter the point, which is why it is automatically placed as a point. 10 at the end of Thursday's program. Parliamentary control for Friday at 9.00 is renumbered as the 11th point of the Programme. Let's move on to the next offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u44	Can I be justified?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u45	Yes, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go. I'll just read it then. I'm sorry. The next proposal shall be in the order of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS to be included as a point in the Weekly Programme Draft of a decision for introduction as a compensatory mechanism in full for non-bit final customers in the electricity market of religion, municipalities, social structures, education, health care. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to the ruling majority: I do not know if you are aware of this, but I suppose you also have a lot of acquaintances in various areas of social and economic life that are failing at the moment, because they cannot pay the costs of electricity, gas and any other energy carriers. And if last week, in jokes and banter, it was very fun in quotes, and if this really seemed like a lot of fun, and we had fun, Mr. Karimanski even forgot how to read and barely vowed to just not get to the compensation point, I want to assure you that the parliament seems to be somehow abdicating itself from making the decisions that people expect. And as much as you want to bury your heads like ostriches, they stay in trouble. I don't know what you're counting on. You're counting on the situation to become normal on its own, but I must assure you that it is not. And if you follow the trends not only in Bulgaria, but on the world and on the European market, you will see that things will get worse and harder, not only for people, but also for non-domestic consumers. So I really beg you to make sure that our point is examined this week. If you have something better, suggest it, but do not do it this way with procedural grasps and with any other equilibristics, try not to look at this project for a solution. Mr. Chairman, I propose that when you put to the vote our request under art. 47, para. 3, our point of viewing the decision to be point one for Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u47	Thank you. Point one for Thursday. Mr. Petrov wants the floor, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In view of the fact that in the proposal made by us, which was adopted for inclusion as a point in the plenary sitting on Thursday,.. Draft decision to repeal the Green Certificate Decision and that a proposal was just made by GERB colleagues to make their point. 1, I am making another proposal, namely: t. 10, proposed and presented by the President as such for tomorrow's agenda, to become a point of order. 2 and the agenda shall be changed accordingly. To clarify my proposal: 1 to be the proposal of colleagues from GERB-SDS, etc. 2 to be the current t. 10. Thank you. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u49	All right, Mr. Petrov. Your suggestion is: the point that we just put into the program to go ahead in order for Thursday, I understand. Thank you. I put to the vote Alexander Nenkov's proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS to include the draft decision in the Programme, and the proposal is that it be a point. 6 of the program for the week, which will appear first on Thursday, and the rest to be renumbered accordingly. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u50	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u51	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u52	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u53	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u55	Thank you. They voted 221 MPs plus 3 online " 224" total: for 93 and 1 online "94" total, there are 120 against in the room and in 2 online " 122" total, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Petrov, in principle, when you make the proposal, you need to specify as well as Mr. Nenkov clarified the correct arrangement for this. You don't have to change anyway. Thank you. Before we go to the dots of the program, I read you two messages: first of all... [[Heckling]] In principle, you should point it out when the proposal itself is made, as Mr. Nenkov did. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, changes to the Programme may be proposed by the President. [[Relations from the National Representative Petar Petrov.]] Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u56	Mr. President, as far as I am aware of the Rules of Procedure from my humble experience, there is no problem and there is no restriction on the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly to make changes to the agenda, especially when we vote on the agenda for the whole week. Again in my memory comes up the urgent proposal for the moratorium on the price of household consumers, which was made as a change in the agenda and no prior indication, submission, submission and so on and so forth was necessary. So, as far as we are all in this House, we can all make proposals for changes to the agenda. I'm going to ask the procedure I've done to put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u57	Okay. Once again, only the President can make proposals for changes to the agenda, but I will... [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] One second, Mr. Gadget. This time, I will make the proposal to formally comply with the requirement that the President do so, so be it. Let us vote on this proposal. 10 to become t. 6 and be t. 1 on Thursday. This is the project. [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] I didn't hear you, Mr. Gadget. [[Relations from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev.]] Okay, now I know what you mean. Yeah. We vote on the proposal the item that we put on the agenda, namely: "Project of a decision to repeal a decision of the National Assembly of 7 January 2022 on access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an emergency epidemic situation" "The green certificate as access shall be the first for Thursday. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u58	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u59	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u60	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u61	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u62	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u63	Thank you. They voted 220 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online " 223" total: for 94 in the Chamber and 1 online "95," against 69, abstentioned 57 in the Chamber and 2 online "59." The offer is not accepted. [[Reply.]] We're overreacting. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u64	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u65	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u66	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u67	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u69	Thanks, guys. They voted 218 MPs in the Chamber and 3 online " 221" total: 90 in the Chamber and 1 online "91," against 71, abstentioned 57 in the Chamber and 2 online "59." The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to messages. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew from the Air Force of Greece. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly over the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 11 February 2022, with reference to No 47-203-09-13, and granted to the Defence Committee. On 14 February 2022, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 14 February 2022 to 14 February 2022. No 47-211-00-1, an analysis of the activities of the Special Prosecutor's Office, the Investigation Department of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Appeals Specialized Prosecutor's Office for the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2020 was submitted by letter of the President of the National Assembly. The material was sent to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and to all parliamentary groups. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - R & D indexes in the section "Retails' excluding trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles in December 2021; - Industrial production indexes in December 2021; - Construction production indexes in December 2021; - Employed persons and average gross salary in the fourth quarter of 2021; - Inflation and indices of consumer prices in January 2022 supposed data. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to item one of the agenda for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTER BULSTATE. There has been a report from the leading and only committee dealing with the Draft Law, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Stoev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u70	Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 47-254-01-14, submitted by Atanas Slavov, Iva Miteva, Stoyu Stoev, Stoil Stoilov and Philip Popov on 28 January 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 4 February 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 47-254-01-14, submitted by Atanas Slavov, Iva Miteva, Stoyu Stoev, Stoil Stoilov and Philip Popov on 28 January 2022. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Borislav Ganchev, Deputy Minister and Mrs. Desislava Gaidarova Secretary General; Mrs. Daniela Miteva, Executive Director, Mrs. Asya Masrelieva, Mrs. Stoyanka Taneva and Mrs. Lazarinka Stoichkova experts; by the Commission for Personal Data Protection, Mr. Ventsislav Karadzhov, Chairman, and Mrs. Lyubomir Gruncharov, Expert. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the National Representative Atanas Slavov. The Law aims to adapt and comply with certain provisions of the BULSTAT Registry Act with the rules on the processing of personal data laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EU of the General Data Protection Regulation. National Representative Atanas Slavov noted that the legislative initiative creates a legal opportunity for subsequent technical and organisational measures by the Registry Agency to improve the protection against disclosure or dissemination of personal data. The draft law shall specify access procedures by ensuring registered access to the data in the register following the identification of the applicant by means of a qualified electronic signature or digital certificate. It is proposed that personal data which are used for identification be entered in the register but not publicly available and that the Registry Agency will provide remote access to the public part on the Internet and by automated submission of data on the entered circumstances. The proposed legislative changes create conditions and arrangements for access in the register to non-public data where abuse of personal data by third parties has been detected. An obligation is envisaged for the Registry Agency to ensure the technical implementation of legislative changes and the persons entered shall be liable to state an address for correspondence where they are not indicated and to announce a website if they have one. A written statement from the Registry Agency has been received expressing support for the Bill. The opinion states that the adoption of the draft law will create a legal basis for improving the protection against disclosure and dissemination of personal data. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In the course of the public discussion, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Registry Agency and the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data stated support for the Bill. Mr. Ventzislav Karadzhov pointed out that the proposed draft law achieves greater clarity about the effective implementation of the regulations regulating the content and access to the data in the register. In the discussion of the bill took part the people representative Petar Kosev, who said he would support the proposed bill. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 47-254-01-14, submitted by Atanas Slavov, Iva Miteva, Stoyu Stoev, Stoilov and Filip Popov on 28 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u71	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Hristo Gadget. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u72	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I waited and delayed because I still expected an importer's opinion to be presented, a report and a possible opinion of the Minister of Justice, as this is in his portfolio, and I hope there will eventually be a similar or at least someone to take an attitude. The bill itself is important and we will not oppose it and we will support it so that it can happen. I was impressed by a few things about him and the report. By the way, if you open on the website of the National Assembly where the bill itself has been published, although the Rules require that there be an explicit opinion of the Council of Ministers on a bill submitted by Members of the National Assembly, there is none, or at least none, published. I hope the Committee on Legal Affairs will answer whether there is a written opinion received from the Council of Ministers, as is the Rules, or not, but there is an opinion from the Registry Agency. And now I would like to read it to you:...................................................................................................... The proposals, amendments and additions to the BULSTAT Registry Act will lay the legal basis for taking subsequent technical and organisational measures by the Registry Agency to ensure the protection of the unlimited disclosure and/or dissemination of personal data of certain categories of natural persons, in accordance with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. Now, from here on, at least as a non-specialist on the subject, my question arises: was there a leak of personal data, because, as I look at the opinion of the Agency for the.............................................................................................................then............................................................................................................................ I hope that the Minister of Justice will take note and convince the House that there was no such leak and thus ultimately answer the question that was asked her a month and a half ago. I think it would be right to use the debates, anyway, at the moment the topic is on Parliament's agenda. And this, I think, is important to see if there was no leak of personal data, why is a ten-day-late bill that says it will prevent a leak of personal data, because the actual opinion of the Registry Agency is precisely that this bill will limit the possibility of leaking personal data? That's how they wrote it, or at least that's what it says. Now let's see, and I hope one of the lawyers and the importers will take a look at this, because I don't think the subject can go away with silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I'll remind you that we'll hear from you on Friday. I know that the issue is long ago from your group, but you know very well the reasons why it did not come to the answers. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleague Bojanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Today we are dealing with an extremely important issue, which aims to create legal guarantees, because people with free professions entered in the BULSTAT register, the audience sees those data that are proportionately necessary to ensure the security of trade turnover. I will answer the question immediately. No personal data leak. What is speculated about, and you very well know that this is exactly what you are doing, that you are speculating about the fact that the persons with free professions in the BULSTAT registry can see their permanent address, telephone and email for correspondence. These data, ladies and gentlemen, have been visible and public since 2005. What happened at the beginning of January is that after changing the identifier of its self-insuring persons, it was their UNN, and it was publicly visible, being replaced by one identifier of nine digits. It got their attention and they started checking out the new identifier. The National Revenue Agency paid attention to self-insuring individuals for this change and people for the first time probably, or at least more focused, saw these circumstances and voiced their concerns. The Registry Agency has received many communications, including in writing, which had to assess the legislation and to establish that the legislation in this part has weaknesses and that it provides for public data which do not need to be public in order to ensure turnover security. This has imposed, together with fellow MPs, to prepare this bill and to put it to your attention, I hope you will support it. And I repeat, there was no personal data leak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u75	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There's a request for an affidavit. Mr. Chakarov, if there are lines and dots, so we can finish this part of the procedure, and then I'll give you the floor for a declaration. There is a line from Ivaylo Mirchev, Petar Petrov is written for speech. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Mr. Gadget, if there's a leak, but first, there's no leak. But if there is a leak, this leak will be responsible GERB, as this happens days after Minister Yordanova takes office, and in fact it is about the BULSTAT Registry Act, which you of GERB changed. You changed it just to protect personal data in order to comply with GDPR requirements, and once you have changed it, visualize very personal data. And now, Mr. Gadget, it's a little awkward because it gets like that Charlie Chaplin movie, the Kid, where the kid breaks the window, and then the kid comes by to fix it. That is, GERB voted its Law, polished the personal data and then GERB in the Chamber began to issue questions: but how could you do a leak? It's not a leak. The leak is to leak an array of 5 million records in the NRA, and in that you are experts. After 12 years in power and two and a half billion failed for e-government and cyber security at the moment Bozidar Bojanov has taken hold of the head where to pick up and solve the problems with cybersecurity in the country. And we have nothing to do very quickly, and even more so in the complex geopolitical situation that we are in, so there is no leak. If there is, you are responsible for your understanding of a leak, and for us there is much work to be done to correct your mistakes. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u77	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov. Mrs. Alexandrova, for the third line? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u78	Thank you for your speech, Mr. Gadget. I agree with Mr. Mirchev and I do not know where you come from this courage to ask such questions and ask if there was a leak of data or not, since this statutory provision of access to personal data is because GERB failed to update the Law in time. Let's be honest. Is that right, or isn't it? I thank Minister Yordanova for speaking. I think the ministers reacted very quickly, and together with them we developed the Bill. I'm one of the importers, and we're all behind it. Thank you for saying that you have no objections and you will support it. Of course you'll support him after we fix something that, unfortunately, is your oversight. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u79	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. The third line is Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u80	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gajev, my reply to you is to explain to colleagues that it was GERB that started these changes in the BULSTAT register and the centralized information system in one register so that all citizens can receive the necessary information from just one point. So don't, since you don't know and you don't know, talk. But I want you to ask very clearly from this tribune why the questions to the minister for the leak of these data are postponed for a second month. Yeah, data leaked, it's a fact, but you covered it up. Dear colleagues, two months the Minister of Justice cannot find time to answer whether there is a leak or there is no leak in the Registry Agency, that is the truth and I ask you to explain from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u81	That was the third line. However, before I give Mr. Gazhev the opportunity for a duplicate, I will answer on the topic of the questions to Nadezhda Yordanova and the alleged cover-up. I remind you that in the parliamentary control on Friday of questions and questions asked to them, the prime minister answered first, and then the deputy prime ministers answered. Only in the last two weeks in parliamentary control could not run out of questions to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers, and only after that is passed to the ministers. The ministers are rotting, and that's the rule of law. For this reason, the questions to Minister Yordanova have not been addressed so far. She once had a commitment when it was the meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In other cases, it just wasn't enough for her and the cover-up theme I think we should end it here at last. Thank you very much. I give the word to Hristo Gajev for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, because in essence you have provided more detailed information on the subject. It was nice to explain to the colleagues who took the lines, because it has been a little bit, that the legislation is from 2005, and there is no personal data that has been published, and here we are accused that we have allowed personal data to come out of the Law... It wasn't personal data, was it? I'm sorry, but you need to coordinate a little bit. At least we understand that the international situation is also responsible for this, as colleague Mirchev said. Yes, the international situation must be responsible for both the work of the Council of Ministers and the Registry Agency. Absolutely in the circle of the joke, I accept that. As for what's done as legislation. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that in the end there were two official governments that were also working, and perhaps if they saw problems in the legislation, why didn't they react? When was the head replaced at the Registry Agency? The summer of 2021. You mean to tell me that six months no one at the Registry Agency realized that there might be some problem that you're going to be dealing with right now? It's getting a little frivolous. The Ministry was working, the Council of Ministers was working. Did the Registry Agency stop working? No, it worked. [[Replications from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u83	Please don't discuss from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u84	Since some leaks are being talked about, I would advise the replicators to check who was actually preparing the cybersecurity of both the Registry Agency and the NRA, especially in the period 2015. I really think it should be checked, seeing if there was actually a problem with cybersecurity and what it is. As the e-government committee I think it is no problem to call Minister Bojanov and the press to explain and provide information. Why don't you? Do it. This will be a fruitful debate for the MPs. The Bill clearly states that the Council of Ministers has submitted it, and it has been submitted by MPs to pass again under the rapid procedure. Okay, I get it. Your question is urgent, unlike those adopted last week, who allegedly had nothing to do with the Council of Ministers, but actually regulated the structure of the Council of Ministers. We'll leave that for debate next week. As for the BULSTAT registry itself, I say again, specify exactly what you had in mind with the Minister, because according to him there is no leak of personal data, and in your opinion there is a leak of personal data. [[Relations from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev.]] Then specify once what this is about. By the way, have you informed the Commission about the protection of personal data if there was any omission that you are regulating right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I give the floor to Jevdet Chakarov for a declaration on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u86	Declaration on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group on problems with the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We MPs of the DPS parliamentary group make this declaration that the proposal submitted by us for the second time to hear the Deputy Prime Minister on EU funds Assen Vassilev for the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan is once again not included in the agenda of the plenary sessions for the week. We ask the question: what happens to the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability of Bulgaria. At the beginning of this month during the blitzcontrol with the Prime Minister and the members of the government Mr. Kiril Petkov said from the parliamentary platform that the government had already introduced the Plan to the European Commission, then a spokesperson of the European Commission officially announced that the Commission and Bulgaria are currently discussing the version submitted in October 2021, i.e. there is no new version. On Wednesday, last week, the DPS suggested that the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev on the Plan be included on the agenda for the meeting, it was not accepted. Instead, surprisingly on Thursday evening, Kiril Petkov came to parliament to conduct an extraordinary Council of the ruling coalition to discuss the Plan, on Friday a very urgent meeting of the Public Council of the Ministry of Finance was held to discuss in practice in the Plan areas of transport, health and energy, which were broadcast online. We have heard from the invited participants that they have learned about this since yesterday for today. We have reason to believe that these two emergency events took place in response to the proposal made by the DPS to hear Assen Vassilev about the Plan and were essentially a crisis PR action in order to show active work on the Plan, as well as transparency of this work. We don't say that to get political dividends. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is the only country that currently does not receive funds from this plan. The online meetings of the Public Council cannot in any way replace a hearing in Parliament, which we believe is extremely necessary in order to draw up such a document, in which the best way to protect the national interests of Bulgaria. From what we have heard at the public discussion, we have huge concerns about the compliance of the projects, especially in the field of energy, with the national interests of Bulgaria. Asen Vassilev's statements on the restructuring of the energy sector were controversial. On the one hand, he said about the work of the energy complex "Maritsa East" and I quote: "We have rejected at the moment and will continue to reject the requirement for a specific commitment to close capacity. There's no way we can get the old one out before there's the new one, because otherwise we stay in the dark. But we have also heard something else, and I quote: In this respect, it is important to say that capacity that does not meet environmental standards must be closed. This is an absolute commitment and if we do not do it, we will not get a single European cent. We know that the plan submitted in October last year to the European Commission provides for the closure of coal capacities by 2038. However, one of the European Commission's comments concerns precisely this deadline, expressing the opinion that the other countries of the European Union set themselves significantly more ambitious targets and that Bulgaria is also expected to correct this deadline in this direction. In this regard, we would like to recall that the coal plants in Bulgaria produce one third of the electricity, or 32% per year, the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, produces 21%, hydropower in Bulgaria, including NEK's large plants, produce 5,9% of the electricity, wind power plants produce 2,5%, photovoltaics of 2%. The plan does not provide for financing of replacement coal power plants. There is also no clarity in general about the government's view of what specifically will be replaced by these nuclear or green hydrogen capacities, how will they be financed and when will they become operational? It is important to bear in mind that at the beginning of February the European Commission included nuclear reactors, as well as natural gas, in the group of green energy sources. What is the government's view on this because there are parties with different opinions? Making a decision to build a power that will replace coal, according to the DPS requires national consensus because Bulgaria's national security is important and energy is also important. In the field of energy in Bulgaria is envisaged funding of a project for construction of battery containers for storage of energy from renewable energy sources with a capacity of 6000 megawatts, as well as geological studies for the detection of geothermal sources for energy production. In the words of Asen Vassilev himself, in order for the battery container project to happen, it must be implemented immediately because the payments under the Plan will be completed in 2026 and this project has not even been approved by the European Commission yet. The geological research project for geothermal energy has also not been approved. It is not known whether appropriate sources and capacities will be found at all, with what capacity they will be able to supply for electricity production. The plan provides for the financing of new RES capacity as well as the production of green hydrogen and biogas. We don't have green hydrogen production technology. It is unlikely that RES power can replace coal plants, provided that they still produce no more than 10% of electricity in total. There is no answer to the question of how the social crisis will be resolved, which will lead to the closure of coal capacities. The Syndicate Organizations of the CST and KT Supporta submitted information to the public council that the reduction of the work of the state headquarters in the complex Maritsa East by 40% means a 40% reduction in coal production, which will result only in 4,200 people from the mines being left out of work. Adding the families of these people, we ask the question: will the parties from the ruling coalition take responsibility for those over 12,000 people. And it should be added to those working in the TPP Maritsa East 2 and to the US power plants whose long-term contracts expire in 2024 and 2026 respectively. There is no link between the new technologies being offered and their social dimensions. There is no answer by implementing these projects, how many jobs will be opened, and all the other countries of the European Union are working on this principle. It is extremely important to note that according to the plan Bulgaria will receive, say, about 12 billion. EUR over the next four years against the backdrop of estimated around 600 billion. lv. Gross domestic product during the same period. We need an extremely thorough analysis of the costs and benefits of funding, which we do not currently have. The transport projects presented by the Plan also raise concern. They are quite justified mainly towards railway transport as environmentally friendly, but funding is mainly being placed on the table for the purchase of wagons and locomotives intended for high speed traffic. However, does the current railway infrastructure allow such speeds to be developed? As far as we know, not at this point. Finally, but not least, has an analysis been made of the social dimensions of restructuring the transport sector as a whole towards greening? According to NSI data, freight and passenger transport in the country is mainly carried out by road and not by railway, while around 80 thousand people are employed in the sector. The reduction of the car transport will also affect the sectors that operate the car, the insurance, the auto parts sector and so on. Concerned by the reduction of road transport in the European Union will also be employed in car production in Bulgaria. We must say that Bulgaria is at one of the first places in the European Union on employment in the area of auto parts production, which is good for us, but it should be borne in mind that there are nearly 25 thousand people working there in our country. In conclusion, the DPS insists on hearing Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, on which to provide full information on the projects in it, their commitment to the overall reforms in the sector concerned, with an analysis of the costs and benefits of them and an analysis of the economic and social consequences. The national interests of Bulgaria, as is the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability, require the achievement of a non-party consensus and the DPS calls for overcoming the close party and some private economic interests in the name of such consensus on the Plan and in order to protect the Bulgarian national interests. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. We'll continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u88	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u89	Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u90	Mr. Chairman, very well-intentioned. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms welcome your desire to reign in this House a spirit of mutual respect, of tolerance, of dialogue, of not using harsh words. The specific occasion is the statement by colleague Chakarov, which undoubtedly identified a very important problem, and I link it to parliamentary control on Friday, when you urged us not to use the word "Liars" at the address of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. So my question is because we really want to be as tolerant as possible in this room when the Prime Minister claims, as the colleague said in the declaration, that he has betrayed the Recovery Plan, and the European Commission has found it not so, what other word should we use if it is not false? I ask for help and I promise that we will stick to your recommendation. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u91	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. But I urged no one to use the word "liar" not only at the address of the Prime Minister, including members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u92	What word should we use? Who can we replace her with?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u93	A factual inaccuracies, even when there is one, can be noted without using the word "liar". [[Heckling]] This is not a lesson in Bulgarian language, please! Stoyu Stoev has the floor for speech on the bill, then Petar Petrov is recorded for speech and Stoil Stoilov also.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was provoked to take the floor because from those who spoke before me it was clear that the problem was not understood. There was no leak of personal data within the meaning of unlawful data leaking from the BULSTAT registry. These data are also available to date due to a legislative omission. And the main culprits are colleagues from GERB, because for three years, since the General Data Protection Regulation came into force, they have not been able to unify the legislation in relation to the rules introduced. And yes, we've heard the mantra that we've been ruling for eight months, and we know that a lie repeated a hundred times becomes true, but the facts say otherwise. We've been ruling for eight weeks and the government still swore on 13 December. It should be noted that the 45th and 46th National Assembly were short meetings, one of which did not even draw up committees and such a bill was simply impossible to pass. For this reason, at the moment one of the first tasks of the National Assembly was to clean up the mess you left us, so the people chose us after all. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] That's pretty much what I mean. I think the problem has been cleared up. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Are there any lines to Mr. Stoev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a line from my colleague, but I rather wanted to comment on the matter as an expert in the field because Mr. Gazhev said earlier that he is not really an expert in the matter of personal data. I will repeat the words of both the Minister and all our colleagues, no personal data leak. In order to have a leak, these data must initially be hidden, covered, or otherwise in a legal language, confidential. The legal terminology of the Regulation is a breach of the security of personal data, in particular a breach of the confidentiality of such personal data. Where a law establishes a register to be public, that is to say, that information is constantly available. After all, with this bill, we make a filter that respects the requirements of the Regulation, and through it we finally have some security of personal data and, in fact, the EGNs will not be so easily accessible to self-insuring individuals and to a number of other individuals after acceptance. I hope you'll support him, everyone in this room. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. Are there any other lines to Stoyu Stoev? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kosev, thank you for giving me the opportunity to supplement myself because I neglected to note that this bill has an opinion of the Ministry of Justice, so it is not bad to read all the documents before speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Peter Petrov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since the subject of experts has been affected, I am not an expert on the BULSTAT registry and, respectively, under the Law, only 16 years I have worked on its procedures and take advantage of its services. I have reviewed the Bill and I see that with the changes proposed by the importers in Articles 7, 8, 36 and 37, changes are made mainly in three guidelines. The first direction is regarding the way information is collected, which is defined as such by Regulation 679 of 2016, which in the reasons you write that you want to follow and implement; in the second direction is the way of public display of the information collected; and the third direction is the way to provide references and certificates to third parties. It is commendable that you are trying to protect personal information, but in my opinion it has escaped your attention a major problem which also affects the debates so far, and that is precisely the compromising of the registers for the collection of such personal information. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the changes you are proposing, you say that information will be collected for a permanent and current address, although the same will not be shown. What we suffer as Bulgarian citizens is compromising the arrays of this collected personal information in this register in two directions. In a simpler language, one is the mass release of information, the transfer of mass personal data, the second compromise is the external theft of personal data arrays. I'm not saying it's happened so far, I'm not saying it happened, but until a while ago, I was looking for a text from the NRA because they had entered a favor when a few million personal data leaked out, and they sent people a text service to see if your personal data leaked. I had received a text saying that I had leaked such personal data, but I'm not saying that it happened. However, I think that in the problem that you have affected with the legislative changes, you have missed the biggest problem, the mass draining of personal data, which, whether it happened or not, whether it has leaked to 300,000 people self-insuring as I have, or not, whether they leaked out of the NRA two years ago or not, we must do so, honourable Members, that this thing is no longer allowed. In this regard, I expected to see concrete proposals for protecting the information arrays in this bill. If you have opened the BULSTAT Registry Act, you must have noticed that the only figure that is regulated there is the employee in the registration proceedings of the entities obliged to do so under the BULSTAT Act. In my humble opinion, I say again that I am not an expert, you should have put changes in three guidelines. The first way to store the arrays with personal information so as not to allow a second NRA, for example. Second, procedures for the protection of the arrays with personal information, which is not currently available in the BULSTAT Registry Act. The third thing I think you should have done between the two readings is figures to deal with the protection of these arrays of information. Unfortunately, I didn't see anything like that. I hope you will bear in mind what you are doing when you decide that we will almost decide to comply with Regulation 679 of 2016 on the protection of personal data. I hope that you will be able to bear the responsibility if you have to do such a service that citizens with a text will check if their personal data has leaked from BULSTAT. I'm sure the software and the procedure and the people behind this new text service you can get from the IRA if you need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! The subject is really important about how we protect the registers. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in terms of legal technique and legislative economy, there is no point in any law governing a register to describe the same requirements. Those requirements are currently in two places in the regulatory regulations of the Law on Electronic Governance and of the Cyber Security Act, respectively the Ordinance on minimum requirements for network information security and the Ordinance on requirements for registers and information systems. There, these regulations, which have a clear delegation from both laws, list very specific requirements, sometimes even very technological and technical requirements for registers and information systems. The problem that exists is to comply with these regulations, and my task as responsible for implementing them is to apply them, to check in the Ministry how they are respected and to keep the registers in line with them. In terms of legislation, there is no need in the BULSTAT Registry Act to describe these things that already exist as requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Replies to Peter Petrov? I won't. Mr. Stoil Stoilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wanted to make a statement in general about the Bill because I am one of the importers. The purpose of this bill is to protect the unlimited disclosure of the personal data of the registered in the form of BULSTAT. The general information about them will remain public, but not the one that can identify them as individuals. They've already mentioned exactly what this data is. I would like to congratulate the ministers, who, as soon as the media reported that there was a potential data leak, reacted immediately. We in the National Assembly also reacted immediately. Mr. Gazhev, you said to invite the institutions to listen to the competent institutions what happened. Maybe you didn't notice, we actually did this in the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technology... We invited Minister Bojanov, the Registry Agency, the Commission for Personal Data Protection. A few things became clear from this hearing. First, a data leak.. Let's clarify is unauthorised access to data from third parties. There was no such access. There was no data leak! Let's do it a few times. I thank colleagues Stoev and Kyosev for saying that too. There was no data leak. What there was was a statutory publication of legally required data. This is different. This is because the law itself requires that this data be public and that is what we will fix with this bill. These amendments suspend the statutory publication of these data because they must not be made public in substance. Thank you. If there are lines, I'll continue. [[(Private applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u105	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, we are going to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 47-254-01-14, submitted by Atanas Slavov, Iva Miteva, Stoyu Stoev, Stoil Stoilov and Philip Popov on 28 January 2022. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u107	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u109	Stefan Shilev? They voted 151 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online.. 153 total: 140 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 142 total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted. Mr. Slavov for procedure, then Mr. Stoyu Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In view of the importance of this bill and that no proposals were made within the debate, no requests have been made, that there will be proposals between the two readings, on the basis of art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Constitution. 76, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we proceed to a second vote. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Stoyu Stoev's procedure has been dropped. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u112	My fellow Members, I have just mentioned to you that the bill does not provide for procedures, ways of protecting the information arrays and persons responsible for this protection. Although the minister mentioned that this should be settled in regulations, I have slight doubts about the executive authority in general, and many ministers of justice have seen and experienced in their careers that have dealt with the BULSTAT registry. I gave you the example of the NRA. I'm against voting at second reading. I believe that a deadline should be given for making proposals, especially with the debates that have taken place and the public debate, or was there no theft of data for 300,000 people. I am making a reverse proposal to make the standard deadline for proposals to be made by second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u113	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. We move on to Mr. Atanas Slavov's proposal for a second vote in today's sitting. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u115	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u117	Stefan Shilev? Vote 158 MPs in the House and 2 online " 160" in total: 125 in the House and 2 online " 127" in total, against 28, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[Relation from ARGUMENT: "Prevoting! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u118	It's a re-vote. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u120	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u122	Stefan Shilev? They voted 149 MPs in the House and 2 online "151" total: 118 in the Chamber and 2 online "120" total, against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We'll move on to a second vote then. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] There is no explanation of negative vote on procedural proposals. It's by the book, Mr. Ganev. Here's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u123	Mr. Chairman, it's really more accurate the way it is. I think that you, as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, when a proposal is made by Mr. Slavov, that there was no obstructions to this bill and that we should proceed immediately, because there will be no proposals, we come out and say that it takes time and we will introduce additional proposals and we will make such a way that we give a different view to some or we will complement some specific things, I think it was quite normal in the spirit of democracy and parliamentaryism to give this right to us. At the very least, the self-declared Democrats to withdraw their proposal, because, again, we have stood up and said that we have concrete proposals that we will enter. Henceforth, this whole thing that we are observing does not honor the entire parliament for voting nevertheless not to give us the right to enter proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Stoilov, are you here for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u125	Mr President, I believe that you have quite rightly proposed a vote and we have agreed to move on to a second reading, because the bill, I think, is indisputable. I don't see what big changes can be proposed between the two readings. I understand that my colleagues at the age want to put something on top and try to make it their own. Let's all agree that the bill is good, makes quite normal changes and there is no need for changes between the two readings. Thank you. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] We don't have to waste time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u126	Thank you very much. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, please order in the court. I ask for silence and no such discussions from the place. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] One second, Mr. Ananiev. The procedure for adopting two votes in one sitting may be applied if no proposals for amendment or supplement to the bill have been made during the discussion. That's the way it is. 76, para. 2. My impression of the discussion is that requests for proposals, of course, not entered, were not during the discussion of the Bill. Thank you. We are moving on to the second vote, which has already been voted on. Mr. Stoev, are you going to present the texts? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u127	The Law on the Register BULSTAT (prom., SG No. .). § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 8 words on the territory of the country with all state institutions are deleted. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." details of the person: (a) names; (b) citizenship; (c) BNN, LNC or other foreign person identification number, date of birth for foreign natural persons; (d) type of identity document. (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." address for correspondence, telephone, fax, e-mail address, and: (a) permanent and current address for Bulgarian citizens; (b) permanent and current address or residence address for foreign natural persons resident in the country, respectively, for foreign natural persons. 3. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: . (5) The persons referred to in art. 3 declare entry in the BULSTAT register website if they have one. (6) Communications to natural persons under art. 3 shall be sent to their requested address for correspondence. When a person by art. 3 has indicated in the application that it wishes to be notified by electronic means, messages shall be sent to the e-mail address indicated by it. In this case, confirmation of receipt is not required. § 2. In Article 8, paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: 1 The information in the BULSTAT register shall be public, with the exception of the CNN, LNNC or other foreign person identification number, date of birth, data necessary for the Register of Statistical Units designated by the order of the Executive Director of the Registry Agency on a proposal from the President of the National Statistical Institute, address of the property for persons under art. 3, para. 1, t. 10 letter (b), permanent and current address (s) for Bulgarian citizens, permanent and current address (s) for foreign individuals resident in the country, respectively for foreign natural persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the bill, paragraphs 1 and 2, which was read by Stoyu Stoev. Anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the name of the Bill, § 1 and § 2. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u130	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u132	Stefan Shilev? I'm calling off the vote. Vote in this House 141 MPs and online 2, total 143: for 124 and 2 online " 126" total, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, my speech is in the manner of conduct. As far as I'm aware of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may exceptionally decide that the two votes be held in one sitting, but that provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendment or supplement to the bill have been made during the discussion. I went out twice, Mr. Chairman, to say that three proposals are needed. I will quickly repeat them: the way the arrays are stored with personal information; the procedures to be applied against the theft of information, the mass draining of personal data that has occurred; and the persons who should be responsible for these data protection processes. I will ask my colleagues another time to take a line from me so that we can have a debate on whether the Law is indisputable or controversial and whether the proposals are necessary or not. I'm gonna have to ask you a line. But Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that the vote would only be admissible if there were no such proposals as I believe we have spoken twice. So if you could just give us an explanation. 2, I think it will be useful for the future next votes on one day, first and second reading by the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u134	Yes, thank you, Mr. Petrov. You've touched on these topics, but I don't think you've made an offer. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u135	Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to point out to you that your decision was really correct, and to Mr. Petrov, I wanted to say that I listened very carefully because I thought I would replicate it. He commented on topics but did not say he would make a proposal. He can hear himself in the transcription. So they need to be a little clearer when colleagues want to make proposals and say they're going to make them. I listened carefully and heard that there were comments, but not a request for proposals. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Stoev, would you like to introduce us to the next paragraphs on the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u137	.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words "Consequences in" the public part is added. 2. In para. 2 words under art. 8, para. In the public part of the BULSTAT register, 1' are replaced by "in the public part of the BULSTAT" register. 3. In para. 3 after the words "in" the public part of "the public part of" shall be added. 4. In para. 4 A sentence is created second: The references and certificates shall be provided after the application and submission of an identity document. 5. In para. A sentence 2 shall be created: "Securities through remote access and certificates in electronic form shall be provided after identification of the applicant by qualified electronic signature or digital certificate issued by the Agency.' 6. The creation of para. 6: The data of persons requesting a reference or certificate shall be kept in the Registry Agency within the time limits required. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. Two is canceled. 2. In para. 2 words. 1, t. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 1, t. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. . (4) The Registry Agency shall ensure registered access to the data and circumstances recorded in the BULSTAT registry which are not public. (5) Access under para. 4 may be provided after identification of the applicant by qualified electronic signature or by a digital certificate issued by the Agency. The data of the applicant requesting access shall be kept in the Registry Agency within the statutory time limits. Data may be provided to the person to whom the application relates after the request has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 3 and 4, presented by Stoyu Stoev. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Moving to vote on paragraphs 3 and 4. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u140	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u142	Stefan Shilev? I'm calling off the vote. Vote in this House 139 Members of Parliament and Online 2 supposed 141: for 124 and 2 online suppose 126, against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u143	"Transitional and final provisions." § 5. (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Registry Agency shall ensure that it is technically possible to implement it. (2) Person under art. 3, which does not have an address for correspondence until the entry into force of this law, shall state an address for correspondence within the period under para. 1. Upon the entry of the correspondence address, the permanent address of the person shall be deemed to be the address for correspondence and the communications sent to him shall be sent on a regular basis. (3) Within two months of the entry into force of this law, the persons referred to in art. 3 declare entry in the BULSTAT register website if they have one. § 6. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the section, § 5 and 6 presented by Stoyu Stoev. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the name of the section, § 5 and 6. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u146	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u148	And Stefan Shilev? They voted 137 MPs in the House, plus 2 online, 139 total: 124 in the Chamber plus 2 online, 126 total, against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. This concludes with the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, which we also adopted in the second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. Thank you, Madame Minister! A Report from the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technology on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance adopted on 3 February 2022, No 47-202-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2022, was received. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the First Voting of 3 February 2022 Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 47-202-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2022. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 1. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Chapter One, the name of Section I is amended as follows:. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 4. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. The creation of para. 1: (1) The Minister of Electronic Governance shall conduct state policy in the field of e-government and in the field of information society and information technology in interaction with other executive bodies. 3. So far, text becomes para. 2 and in it: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: (b) c. 1: (aa) The text prior to the letter..................................................................................................................:suppression; (bb) point (s) is amended as follows: (s) information technology and information society; (c) c. 3 at the end of the year, the strategies in the field of information technology and information society are added and their implementation is ensured; (d) point 13 is amended as follows: "13." implement projects relevant to all administrations in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; (e) point 21 is repealed; (f) create t. 24 - 30: It's 24 o'clock. prepare projects of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society and ensure the implementation of international treaties in these areas; 25. ensure the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society related to its membership in the European Union and international organisations, including by representing the Republic of Bulgaria in international organisations in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; 26. support the development and introduction of standards and standardisation documents relating to electronic management, information technology and information society; 27. participate in the work of international standardisation organisations and technical standardisation committees in the Republic of Bulgaria related to electronic management, information technology and information society; 28. establish investment programmes and projects in accordance with priorities in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; 29. conduct inter-agency coordination in the preparation and submission of draft legislative acts of the Council of Ministers in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; 30. exercises other powers provided for in a law or in another regulatory act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u150	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Let's stop by § 4. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1 to 4. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. I terminate the debate on the name and paragraphs 1 to 4. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u152	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u154	Stefan Shilev? They voted 125 MPs in the House plus 2 online, a total of 127: 125 in the Chamber plus 2 online, a total of 127 against and abstention. The texts have been adopted. Mr. Simeonov, please continue with § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u155	Thank you. Proposal by the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 the words "the Head of the Agency" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance." 2. In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the words "the chairman of the agency" shall be replaced by "the minister of e-government." Proposal by the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 the words "The State Agency" "E-Management" shall be replaced by "E-Management" and "E-Management" and "E-Management" shall be replaced by "E-Management" and "E-Management" and "E-Management" shall be replaced by "E-Management" and "E-Management" shall be Proposal by the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of e-Management. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u156	Thanks, let's stop here. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on § 5 to § 7. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on § 5 to § 7 and § 5 becomes § 8. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u158	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u160	And Stefan Shilev? They voted 120 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total 122: for 120 in the House plus 2 online, total 122, against and abstaining there is no. The texts from § 5 to § 7 and § 5 were adopted which became § 8. Continue with the name of the section, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u161	Thank you. "Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 6. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In the other texts of the Law, the words: 1. E-Management and the Agency shall be replaced by E-Management. 2. The Chairman of the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 10. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 8. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... (1) The State Agency of Electronic Management of the Council of Ministers shall be closed. (2) The Council of Ministers shall set up a liquidation commission which, within three months of the entry into force of this Act, governs the relations relating to the closure, including the assets, liabilities, registers, databases, archives, other rights and obligations of the closed agency, and shall regulate the employment and service relations with the employees. (3) The powers of the President and of the Vice-Presidents of the State Agency shall be terminated from the date of entry into force of this Act. (4) Until compliance with this law with the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Electronic Governance, the powers of the Minister of Transport and Communications in the field of Information Technology shall be exercised by him in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u162	Let's stop here. I am opening debates on the name of the division of the additional provision, as well as § 6, which becomes § 9, the name "Transitional and final provisions" § 7, which becomes § 10, § 8, which becomes § 11. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Please vote on the texts presented by Mr. Simeonov. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva? Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u164	Stefan Shilev? They voted 122 MPs in the House plus 1 online, a total of 123: for 122 in the Chamber, plus 1 online, a total of 123, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u165	Paragraph 9 "A proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 102d, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of e-Management. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 13. Paragraph 11 "A proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Cyber Security Act (prom, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 the words "Deputy Prime Minister appointed by the Prime Minister" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance"; (b) in para. 3: (aa) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. the Minister for Transport and Communications; (bb) The creation of a t. 8a: Eight o'clock. the Minister of Electronic Governance; (c) point 15 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) the title shall be amended as follows: b) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2, p. 3 in the text before the letter........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. Everywhere in the Law, the words "the Chairman of the State Agency".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u166	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Let's stop here so we can vote on these three texts. I open the debates under § 9, 10 and 11, which become § 12, 13 and 14 respectively. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with regard to § 11 I believe that it is not right to replace this text and to give these powers to the Minister of Electronic Governance. I'll tell you why. With the text proposed before the corrections, it is envisaged that the Chairman of the Cyber Security Council should be Deputy Prime Minister, that is, the Deputy Prime Minister appointed by the Prime Minister. However, we now want to choose, i.e. give these powers to the Minister of Electronic Governance. That is, the Minister of Electronic Governance will be over and will manage deputy prime ministers who are also in the Council. I am referring to the Deputy Prime Minister of Environment and Deputy Prime Minister of... that is, two Deputy Prime Ministers who are on this council, and the Minister will be above them. I believe that these powers are too great, and let us not forget that this Council also includes the Interior Minister and such other organisations that are in terms of security. That's by § 11. Perhaps I wouldn't have said anything about § 10 but given that we will now vote and § 11 and if it is adopted, that is, § 10 also becomes worrying, that is, regarding the Election Code. With regard to the Election Code, let us not forget, honourable Members, that the Electronic Service Agency is the agency that counts and processes the results of the electoral process, that is, a minister who will also have the other powers that I have just spoken about, a minister of certain political power, will also have an influence on this process. And let us not forget that the Minister is not impartial. These are my concerns, so we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u168	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Are there any lines to that statement? Docent Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Mummyun, let's see the logic behind the proposed amendment to the Law. So far, these functions have been carried out by the State Agency. The Chairman of the State Agency (E-government) is not a member of the Council of Ministers. That is what has required and justified a deputy prime minister, a deputy prime minister, to be president of the Cyber Security Council. But now we're turning the concept around. It is now logical for the Minister of Electronic Governance, who is a member of the Council of Ministers, who enjoys Parliament's trust, to be president of this Cyber Security Council because it bears political responsibility. There is no way to create, so to speak, a two-headed leadership in cybersecurity on the one hand, to have a minister responsible for exercising all the powers vested in him by law and, on the other hand, to seek out any deputy prime minister to monitor overall activity. Please bear in mind this conceptual change in the arrangements proposed, which precisely justifies the Minister of Electronic Governance managing this Council. This would lead to the real implementation of all coordination functions entrusted to that authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u170	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Is there any other line to Mr. Mumeun's statement? Here's a line, Mr. Cholakov. [[Replication of the National Representative Radomir Cholakov: The reply is not.]] Are there any other lines to Mr. Mumeon's statement? For the coat, Mr. Mumeun, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u171	Thank you. Yes, I know about logic, I understand what you're saying, but here we're talking about mutual control, that is, you're ruling together, but you're different political parties, that is, in order for there to be mutual control, as it was before, you must not be doing what you now want. That's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u172	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. Come in for a statement, then Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Bojanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed amendment to § 11 of the bill under consideration of art. 9, para. 2 of the Cyber Security Act is unacceptable for the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. The proposal envisions that the Chairman of the Cyber Security Council will be the Minister of Electronic Governance, not as in the current law, the Deputy Prime Minister appointed by the Prime Minister. We believe that this change is a mistake, and the arguments for this are: Firstly, the Cyber Security Council is an advisory and coordinating body of the Council of Ministers in view of the fact that cybersecurity in the 21st century is an essential factor affecting critical infrastructure in the public and private sectors and has a direct impact on the national security system. This requires that all power ministers, heads of services concerned with national security be included in the Cyber Security Council. Therefore, as Chairman of the Cyber Security Council, the Law has provided for the Deputy Prime Minister proposed by the Prime Minister. Without diminishing the expertise of electronic governance in the area of cybersecurity, we believe that this change to some extent neglects cybersecurity and the role of the Cyber Security Council. In this regard, we propose in § 11 the proposed change of art. 9, para. 2 drop out of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u174	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Can we just get this straight?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u175	We propose to drop it in § 11 t. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9th para. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u176	Are there any lines to Mr. Iliev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Iliev, at GERB you had no problem just a year ago being a lady who boasted that she had an IT card. Then we didn't hear in any way that this was a special problem for you. For the second time today, a very schizophrenic attitude by GERB on things that have happened, you have not reacted or for which you are responsible, but suddenly they become a great problem. Ms. Mariana Nikolova was President of the Council, in her own words, had enough certificates and competence for this, but in no way did GERB signal. Suddenly it turns out that when the head of this ministry is the best expert in the country on these issues, this is a great problem for GERB and you need to clear and clarify this thing. The idea of these changes now, and this is the most logical thing that can happen is that the minister, who is really the most familiar with this topic, is to be the chairman of the Cyber Security Council. The most logical thing is this. The fact that he is not a deputy prime minister does not in any way weaken, and by the way, this is extremely important in operational order, because the Cyber Security Council is something quite different from everything we have in the government right now, and the person who is the chairman of this council must have a slightly more specific expertise to make really correct decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u178	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Are there any other lines to Mr. Iliev's statement? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Iliev, you meant the Law on Electronic Governance, which we did not disagree with in the Commission, but you said about the Law on Cybersecurity. Yes, it is extremely important there and the Minister will feel more at ease when a deputy prime minister or the prime minister is president of the Cyber Security Council, because in the end this concerns national security. I do not think that in the words of colleague Iliev there was anything, as the previous one said, schizophrenic, because in the end this law regulates GERB's policy in electronic management and passage ultimately of the Agency in the Ministry. So, Mr. Iliev, with you and in your speech there is a reason for supporting the Minister of Electronic Governance in the Cyber Security Act there to be the deputy prime minister or prime minister as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to make it clear that this Cyber Security Council, which is enshrined in the Cyber Security Act, is advisory, it is not controlled. Its function is not to control one deputy prime minister to control the minister of e-government, but rather the idea of this council is to have him consultative there to channel all information from several departments, including other ministers, to be members of this council, so that the most competent person in the country of e-government, who is the minister of e-government, can make the right decisions and report, respectively, at a higher level, for example, to the Council of National Security, which is to the Prime Minister. That is where the consequences of what has been said are to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u182	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u183	Dear colleague Mirchev, we do not minimize the Minister's expertise, on the contrary. I don't know if he's the most competent in cybersecurity, there must be other colleagues. I'm not a cybersecurity professor, I'm a network professor, but I didn't mean to schizophrenically make any definitions. I believe that this is a better option, and I think that in this way the role of this council will be ignored to some extent, even if you ask me, the Prime Minister must head it, because cybersecurity has an enormous significance for all levels. In no case can I accept these definitions as schizophrenic for GERB. We are trying to do something better, and I think this proposal is constructive. Therefore, I do not accept such definitions, qualifications, and what this minister had done, what the other had done, and such things. Thank you, but I don't accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u184	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am intrigued by this discussion because it has, how can I say, in its content an element of the institutionality that we are talking about and I am addressing the majority representatives. Look, colleagues, the remark made by Mr. Mumeun, and what Mr. Iliev said is very true and correct, because in the end there is an institutional order. Now look at this chair here with a higher back and the next three chairs, and Mr. Minister of Electronic Control, who is very properly sitting in the second row, because if he were sitting in the front row, he wouldn't look good. [[shows to the seats designated for ministers]] Imagine a council, albeit consultative, involving two Deputy Prime Ministers, and the Council is chaired by a minister. What will happen if this order is maintained is that no deputy prime minister will ever participate in this council, but will send a deputy or someone there from the office. The same will begin to be done by the other power ministers, and at some point it will turn out that the Minister will chair the Advisory Council by state experts or some other officials. The issue is essential insofar as the ranks must be respected and they are respected naturally, so let the text remain that the Deputy Prime Minister presides over the Council. Surely the expertise of the Minister will be very useful inside and he will be the leader in content, but in form he should really remain to be led by the Deputy Prime Minister, because otherwise the order is violated, and remember my word, sooner or later, if we break the order, what I say will happen will fall sharply and will not have the effect that you all expect of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u186	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Is there a line to Mr. Cholakov's statement? Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Of course, it is important that this discussion, it has been quite led in the Commission and with respect to the arguments that are being made, however, to give counter-arguments. First of all, it's not about specific individuals who are in some position at the moment. Two principles are fought: one is the hierarchic logic which Mr. Cholakov and the speaker before him laid out, the other is functional logic. We are currently creating a ministry in which, in order for such a coordination council to be effective, it is very important that it be backed up not only by the hierarchical logic but also by the capacity of this ministry and to ensure that the Council's work is really focused. Let's bear in mind that the hierarchic logic remains the Deputy Prime Minister who is currently in this government, and in another cabinet this may not be the case and may be different. The Deputy Prime Minister still retains a hierarchic monitoring function against the Minister of Electronic Governance, i.e. the internal balance has a way of getting through and what you have illustrated with the chairs. The logic that prevails in internal discussions is precisely that the Ministry will be what will provide the basis for the work of this council, and in another cabinet there may be no monitoring deputy prime minister. These things, as we know, aren't permanent. The logic of the long-term framework of these relations implies that the function of coordination of efforts between the various cybersecurity departments should be as close as possible to the established ministry to ensure capacity in this regard. Finally, because arguments have been made about the mutual balance between the coalition partners, perhaps to recognise to the ruling majority and the executive a certain amount of autonomy and to assess exactly how to settle these relations, so this is also some consideration. There is logic in both, and in the other, and after long discussions, it has been decided to approach this and the argument in this case is a durability of relationships and a really defined operational efficiency based on the newly created ministry. By the way, as it came up, the previous colleague said that the prime minister should head this council. Within the framework of the executive power, the security system is headed by the Security Council to the Prime Minister, in which, like David and here, the Prime Minister of Electronic Governance also participates, that is, this is the integrating platform through which the various types of security are uploaded to the highest prime minister level. In this sense, this council is preparatory to the work of that one, but let this functional structure leave it to the executive authority within the framework of its operational independence to settle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. With a second line, Mr. Stoilov, come in, and for a third line Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u189	My line is to Mr. Cholakov. These advisory councils are not always chaired by deputy prime ministers. At least to me, it seems much more logical for the Cyber Security Council to be chaired by the Minister of Electronic Governance, it is nevertheless advisory, there the idea is to gather information and is not always at stake to be vice prime minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u190	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Cholakov, in part I agree with you and I think that Minister Bojanov is not suitable for this post because after examining the Bill at first reading we have raised a very important issue, namely the issue of the cybersecurity of the state. A specific response from Minister Bojanov we did not receive. We heard from him that there are mechanisms for this, but unfortunately, we never understood exactly what these mechanisms were. Will these be private companies to be entrusted with cybersecurity, which we strongly oppose, or will they find a way to provide competitive salaries for cybersecurity experts?! From this tribune, we firmly stated that we would support Mr. Minister if he thought the budget of the Ministry was insufficient and needed its increase in order to ensure our national security. This help has not been requested from us, we have not received a clear answer and therefore we will not support this bill. We believe that the President of this Council must be precise, clear and firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u192	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For the coat, Mr. Cholakov, come in. That was the third line. [[Reply.]] Are you for speaking?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, as Mr. Hristo Ivanov said, here the two logics collide, they do not collide, of course, they complement the hierarchical and functional. I just want to say that hierarchic logic is life's logic. Once again, there is no hypothesis in a room for ministers to stand, to enter a deputy prime minister and not to make his front seat. He just has to sit in the front seat. That's order, order of life. As a matter of fact, colleagues, we have since the beginning of the transition, since the beginning of the transition, been experimenting with the administrative structure of the country, and it is science and it is an exact science. I understand that the ruling majority should be left with some subjective judgment and say institutional fantasy, but when a multi-institutional fantasy is manifested, the administration finally breaks down and the administrative processes begin to run harder. By the way, according to the old state structure, if you want, open the old textbooks on administrative law to see that there are ministries and committees, and what we now call horizontal policies, were once general functional committees. This is precisely the policy of e-government, if it were our administrative device as it is ordered, it would be called And that makes sense, by the way. As for the last replicator Mr. Dimitrov, I admit that I am surprised, I did not expect this discussion to turn around, but if there is really an idea that cybersecurity should be entrusted to private companies and if there are really ideas that the information sovereignty of the country will continue to be outsourced, then I think that this country will go towards closure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u194	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For the procedure Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of having an attitude towards this law, but because many ideas have been spoken, I would like to address you: here we are not discussing a law on life order, nor a law on ideas for outsourcing, but we are discussing the Law on e-government, and in this sense I propose that we end the debates for which I have the right, and move on to voting. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u196	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. For a speech was recorded the colleague from GERB-SDS, so I will give her the opportunity to take the floor and then we will proceed to the voting procedure of Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In accordance with art. 9 of the Cyber Security Act it is not only an advisory body, but also a coordinating body on all issues related to cybersecurity. It should also be borne in mind that the Minister of Defence is inside the defence, and there are also issues related to the cybersecurity of defence. In addition, according to para. The President and the President of the National Assembly may be present at the same member of the sitting. I mean, the highest level in the country. Nothing personal to you, Mr. Minister, but it is no coincidence that the Deputy Prime Minister appointed by the Prime Minister to be the Chairman of this Council. It should also be borne in mind that this Council is not subordinate to the Security Council of the Prime Minister and does not report to it. These are two separate equal councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Are there any lines to Mrs. Trifonova's statement? I can't see. We are going to vote on Professor Mihailov's procedural proposal to end the debate. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u200	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u202	Stefan Shilev? They voted 133 MPs in the House, plus 2 online.. 135 total: 118 in the Chamber and 2 online. 120 in total, against 15 in the House, who abstentioned. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for a re-vote. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u204	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u206	Stefan Shilev? They voted 125 MPs in the House plus 2 online. 127 total: 122 in the Chamber and 2 online. 124 in total, against 2 in the House abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are calling off the debate on paragraphs 9 to 11. Colleagues, I give half an hour of rest until 12:00, and then we will continue by voting on the texts of paragraphs 9 to 11. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u207	Colleagues, I'm renewing the session. Please check the quorum in view of the forthcoming voting procedure through the computerised system. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u208	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u209	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u210	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u211	Stefan Shilev? Registered 124 MPs in the hall plus 2 online We have a quorum. We should proceed to voting on the texts of paragraphs 9 to 11, which become paragraphs 12 to 14. We will then vote on the proposal made by MP Mikhail Iliev from GERB-SDS parliamentary group. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u213	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u215	Stefan Shilev? They voted 103 MPs in the House plus 2 online. 105 total: 97 in the Chamber and 2 online.. 99 in total, against 6, no abstentions. Colleagues, we obviously don't have a quorum. Mr. Gurov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I'd like a 15-minute recess. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u217	Dear colleagues, I'll give you 15 minutes off. [[Noise and lines.]] 15 minutes rest at the request of the parliamentary group [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u218	I'm resuming the hearing. Please check the quorum through the computerised system with a view to the forthcoming revoting. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u219	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u220	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u221	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u222	Stefan Shilev? Registered in the hall 137 MPs plus 2 online There's a quorum. We are moving on to a re-voting of the texts, which becomes § 12, § 10, which becomes § 13, and § 11, which becomes § 14, as they are by importer. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u224	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u226	Vote in this House 134 MPs and 2 online " 136" total: 129 and 2 online " 131" total, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting on Mr. Mikhail Iliev's proposal from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS for dropping the item. 1 in § 1, that is to say, no amendment to the text of the Law. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u227	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u228	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u229	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u230	Vote in this House 155 MPs and 2 online " 156" total: 29, against 105 and 2 online " 107" total abstentions 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u231	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u232	Procedure for revoting at the request of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u233	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u234	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u235	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u236	Vote in this House 154 MPs and 2 online " 156" total: 30, against 107 and 2 online "109" total, abstentioned 17. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Simeonov, come in, paragraph 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u237	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 12. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Access to Public Information (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156, para. 3 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of Electronic Governance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "the Chairman of the State Agency' shall be replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance'; (b) in para. 2, p. 4 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of Electronic Governance. 3. Everywhere in the Law, the words "the State Agency" are replaced by "the Department of Electronic Governance." Under § 13 there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 13. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Access to Space Data (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Chairman of the State Agency' are replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance'; (b) point 1 is repealed. 2. Everywhere in the Law, the words the Chairman of the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 14. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The Law on Electronic Communications shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department' shall be replaced by "the Transport and Communications Department'; (b) in para. 2 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Transport and Communications" and the words "the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Transport and Communications" and the words "the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Transport and Communications." (c) in para. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In Chapter 3, the name of Section III is hereby amended as follows: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the words "The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Transport and Communications" and the words "the Ministry of Information Society" shall be deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Transport and Communications"; (b) c. 1 words in the field of information society shall be deleted; (c) c. 4 the words "and the information society" shall be deleted; (d) c. 5 words and the information society shall be deleted; (e) c. 6 the words "the management of electronic communications and the information society' shall be replaced by "the messages'; (f) c. 8 the words and the information society shall be deleted; (g) c. 11 at the beginning is added to the actualised and comma, and the words "information society" and "information society" are deleted; (h) c. 12 words and the information society shall be deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words "The Head of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by "The Minister of Electronic Governance." 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 the words "the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department" shall be replaced by "the Transport and Communications Department and the Ministry of Electronic Governance." 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 5 the words "the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department" shall be replaced by "the Transport and Communications Department," the Ministry of Electronic Governance. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 2 the words "the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department" shall be replaced by "the Transport and Communications Department and the Ministry of Electronic Governance." 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. 5 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Transport and Communications and the Minister of Electronic Governance." 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 244a, para. 3 after the words the Ministry of Defence and the words the Department of Electronic Governance and the words the Department of Electronic Governance are deleted. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 300, para. 2 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of Electronic Governance. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 303, para. 1 words The Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of e-Management and shall be replaced by the Minister of E-Management.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u238	I open the discussion on paragraphs 12 to 14, which, following the Commission's proposals, will become paragraphs 15 to 17. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are voting for paragraphs 12 to 14 in the version supported by the Commission, which becomes paragraphs 15 to 17. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u240	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u242	Stefan Shilev? They voted in this House 133 MPs and 2 online.. 135 total: 125 and 2 online.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u243	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 18. Under § 16 there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 16. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on Electronic Identification (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 5 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of Electronic Governance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 sentence first the words 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 words are replaced by the Minister of Electronic Governance. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of e-Management. Under Paragraph 17, there is a proposal from the MP Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 17. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law for direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the words "Regulation (EU) No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the citizens' initiative (OJ L 65/1 of 11 March 2011) , hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) No 21' are replaced by the "Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the European Citizens' Initiative (OB, L 130/55 of 17 May 2019. , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2019/788'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. 2, p. 1 of Regulation (EU) No 21 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "Regulation (EU) No 21" shall be replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2019/788"; (b) in para. 3 the words "the Chairman of the State Agency' shall be replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance' and the words "Regulation (EU) No 21" shall be replaced by "the Regulation (EU) 2019/788'; (c) in para. 4 the words "the Chairman of the State Agency' shall be replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance' and the words "Regulation (EU) No 21" shall be replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2019/788'; (d) in para. 8 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Electronic Governance" and the words "Regulation (EU) No 21" shall be replaced by "the Regulation (EU) 2019/788"; (e) in para. 9 words.............................................................................. The Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer § 19, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u244	I shall open the discussion under paragraphs 15 to 19, or by numbering after the examination of the Commission under paragraphs 18 to 22. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are voting paragraphs 15 to 19 by importer, and following the proposals of the leading Commission, paragraphs 18 to 22 include. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u246	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u248	Stefan Shilev? Vote in this House 140 MPs and 2 online " 142" total: 125 and 2 online The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u249	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 20. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 360b, para. 1 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of Electronic Governance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 360e, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by the Minister of e-Management. Under § 21, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 21. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 40, para. 2, in the text before t. 1 words "The Head of the State Agency "E-Management" shall be replaced by "The Minister of Electronic Governance." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 25. Under § 23, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 23. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure (prom., SG No. 21 of 2018 and No. 20 from 2021) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall be replaced by the Minister of Transport and Communications and by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, in agreement with the Minister of Electronic Governance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89, para. 1 the words the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall be replaced by the Minister of Transport and Communications. 3. All over the Law, the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" are replaced by "the Minister of Transport and Communications." Under § 24, there is a proposal from the National Representative Kiril Simeonov, made in accordance with Article 24. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In the Law on Geodesy and Cartography (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 8, para. 3 the words "Deputy Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "Deputy Minister for Transport and Communications," Deputy Minister for Electronic Governance. An offer came from the MP, Stoil Stoilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 8, para. 3 is created t. 4a: 4a. Minister of Electronic Governance; § 25. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u250	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs on importer from 20 to 25, and according to the Committee's report are from 23 to 29 inclusive. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion and we're going to vote. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u252	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u254	Stefan Shilev? I'm calling off the vote. They voted 133 MPs in the House and 2 online. 135 total, 125 in the Chamber and 2 online................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The proposal is adopted by which the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance is adopted in a second vote. Thank you very much, Minister. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COLLECTION OF THE COLLECTION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE WORK OF THE COLLECTION-INVESTIVES AND OTHER COLLECTION-INVESTATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. Adopted in first vote on 12 January 2022. There has been a report from the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation on the second vote on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, admission procedure. On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev By the Financial Supervision Commission s Maria Filipova, Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the Investment Activity and Milen Milev, Head of the Department of Normal activity and methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u256	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Please proceed to the vote of admission of the four persons referred to by Martin Dimitrov. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u258	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u260	Stefan Shilev? I'm calling off the vote. They voted 128 Members of Parliament in the Chamber and 2 online. 130 total, 128 in the Chamber and 2 online. 130 total, no opposition and no abstentions. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u261	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 47-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, adopted on the first vote on 12 January 2022. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other undertakings for collective investment (promise, SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal by the MP Desislava Trifonova and a group of MPs: I'm going to get it. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 words "al." 1, 3 and 5 and shall be replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, and shall be replaced everywhere by a first sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u262	I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and under paragraphs 1 to 9 including those by importer, and on the Commission's report are from 1 to 10 inclusive. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, we will vote on the proposal of the MP Desislava Trifonova and a group of MPs for dropping out of art. 3a, which proposal is not supported by the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u263	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u264	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u265	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u266	And Stefan Shilev? I'm calling off the vote. They voted 137 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online..in total 139, for 18 in the Chamber, against 10 in the Chamber and 2 online................................................................................ 9.............................................................................................................................................................. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the name of the bill and paragraphs 1 to 9 according to the importer's numbering and on the Commission's report are from 1 to 10. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u268	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u270	And Stefan Shilev? I'm calling off the vote. They voted 123 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online "125" for 118 in the Chamber and 2 online "120" for a total of 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u271	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. The notification letter shall contain the address as well as the other information necessary for the issue of an invoice or for the communication of the applicable supervisory fees to the Commission, as well as information on the measures under art. 130, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 2. s 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14, as in art. 130, para. 1, t. 3 the words "in' shall be replaced by "in'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15, in the text prior to Article 14. 135a the words "Section I of Chapter 13' are replaced by "Chapter 13', Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." A new para is being created. 3: The notification letter shall contain the address as well as the other information necessary for the issue of an invoice or for the communication of the applicable regulatory fees to the competent authority of the host Member State, as well as information on the measures under art. 130, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 138a: Art. 138a. A collective investment scheme for which the Republic of Bulgaria is a Member State of origin and which offers its shares in the territory of another Member State shall apply the measures under art. 130 against investors on the territory of the host Member State. Information, procedures and documents under art. 130 shall be provided in a language provided for in the national law of the host Member State concerned. Under § 17 there is a proposal from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Chapter XIII, Section II is created art. 140a and 140b: Art. 140a. (1) A collective investment scheme originating in the Republic of Bulgaria which offers its shares in the territory of another Member State may withdraw the notification of their offer, including, where applicable, withdraw the notification of the offering of the relevant classes of shares notified under art. Paragraph 136. 1 if the following conditions are met: 1. a common call for redemption of all shares, which is exempt from fees or deductions, which has been made public within at least 30 working days and which has been made, directly or through financial intermediaries, personally to all investors in the territory of the Member State concerned for which the notification of the offer is withdrawn, the identity of which is known; 2. the intention to terminate the marketing of shares in the territory of the Member State concerned has been made public by means of publicly available means which are normally used in the marketing of shares of collective investment schemes, including by electronic means; 3. all contracts with financial intermediaries or with third parties entrusted with functions shall be amended or terminated as from the date of withdrawal of the notification of supply in order to prevent a new or subsequent, direct or indirect offer or sale of the shares specified in the notification under art. 140b. (2) The information referred to in para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be submitted to investors in either the official or one of the official languages of the host Member State or in a language approved by the competent authorities of that State and clearly describe the consequences for investors if they do not accept the offer of redemption of their shares. (3) The collective investment scheme originating in the Republic of Bulgaria shall terminate any new or subsequent, direct or indirect, offering or selling of its shares for which the marketing notification has been withdrawn as from the date of its withdrawal. (4) The collective investment scheme originating in the Republic of Bulgaria, which ceases to offer its shares in the territory of another Member State, shall continue to provide investors and the competent authority of the host Member State with the information required under Chapter 7 and Article 7. 137. (5) In the cases under para. 4 the collective investment scheme originating in the Republic of Bulgaria may use any electronic or other means of communication at a distance, provided that such funds are available to investors in the official or one of the official languages of the host Member State or in a language approved by the competent authorities of that State. Art. 140b. (1) A collective investment scheme originating in the Republic of Bulgaria, which withdraws the notification of its shares in the territory of another Member State, shall notify the Commission with the information referred to in art. 140a, para. 1. (2) The Commission shall verify that the notification under para. 1 shall be complete within 10 working days of receipt. In the event of deficiencies identified in the notification, the Commission shall send a communication to the collective investment scheme. (3) Within 15 working days of the date of receipt of all information relating to the notification under para. 1 The Commission shall transmit the notification to the competent authority of the host Member State and to ESMA, informing the collective investment scheme thereof. (4) The Commission shall send to the competent authority of the host Member State information on any changes to the documents referred to in art. 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall be § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall be § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u272	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I open the discussion on paragraphs 10 to 19 according to the importer's numbering. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion and we're going to vote. Please note that the voting regime in paragraphs 10 to 19 by importer and paragraphs 11 to 21 are on the Commission's report. Colleagues online?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u274	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u275	Yeah. Stefan Shilev? They voted 124 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 126 votes: for 119 MPs and 2 online " 121" against 5 MPs who abstained. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u276	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 21 to 28 on the report submitted by the Commission. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues online?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u278	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u279	Yeah. Stefan Shilev? They voted 120 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 122 votes: for 120 MPs and 2 online " 122, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u280	....... 28........................................... 28 Section III "Pre-proposal on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria". Proposal by the MP Desislava Trifonova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29, as in art. 238b, para. 2 sentence first, the word "investors" shall be replaced by the potential professional investors and in art. 238d, para. 3 the words "the previous sentence' shall be replaced by "the second sentence'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30, as para. 7 is amended as follows: The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President, issue a ban on a planned change within 15 working days of receipt of the notification under para. 6 if, on the basis of the data and documents presented, it cannot be established that the management of the alternative investment fund is being carried out and will be carried out in accordance with the requirements of that law or the activity of the alternative investment fund manager is being carried out and will be carried out in accordance with those requirements. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31, by: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 is created t. 8 and 9: It's 8 o'clock. the address and other information necessary to issue an invoice or to communicate the applicable regulatory fees to the competent authority of the host Member State; 9. information on the measures under art. 247a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." A new para is being created. 7. The Commission may, on a proposal from the Vice-President, issue a ban on a planned change within 15 working days of receipt of the notification under para. 6 if, on the basis of the data and documents presented, it cannot be established that the management of the alternative investment fund is being carried out and will be carried out in accordance with the requirements of that law or the activity of the alternative investment fund manager is being carried out and will be carried out in accordance with those requirements. In that case, the Commission shall inform the relevant competent authority of the host Member State without delay. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32, such as: 1. In the text before art. 247a the words "Section III of Chapter Twenty-Two" shall be replaced by "Chapter Twenty-Two," Section III. 2. In Article 247a: (a) in para. 1, t. 3 the words "the procedures and the measures referred to in "the procedure' are replaced by "the procedure'; (b) in para. 4 the words "Delegated Regulation" shall be replaced by Delegated Regulation (EU). 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 247b, para. 6 the word "all' is deleted;
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u281	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 28 to 31 according to the importer and on the report of the leading Commission are from 29 to 32. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are going to vote on those paragraphs. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u283	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u284	Yeah. Stefan Shilev? They voted 126 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online "128 votes: for 119 MPs and 2 online " 121" against 6 MPs who abstained 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u285	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33, as in the text before art. 250a the words "Section IV" of Chapter Twenty-Two shall be replaced by "Chapter Twenty-Two," Section IV and in para. 7 the words "in' shall be replaced by "in'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36, in c. 1: 1. In the letter "b" the words "c." 229, para. 4 and 5 and 5 shall be replaced by the following: 229, para. 4 and para. 5th sentence, first sentence. 2. In the letter "in" the words "art." 93, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for 3. In the letter...................................................................................... 199, para. 9 s. 10s.s. are replaced by s.r. 199, para. 9 and 10 and the words............................................................................................... 247b, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, Under § 36, a proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Trifonova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37, in c. 1 concerning § 1, c. 40 the words "supplied' are replaced by "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u286	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 32 to 36 by importer, and according to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovations Report.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the paragraphs presented by Martin Dimitrov. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u288	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u290	Stefan Shilev? They voted 123 MPs in the House and 2 voted online.A total of 125: 120 votes for the House and 2 online.A total of 122, against 3 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u291	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal by the MP Desislava Trifonova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Financial Supervision Commission shall align the regulation referred to in art. 33, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 39, by: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 5 the words "and Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and re-use and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union), ), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2015/2365', are replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and re-use and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ, SG No. ), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2018/65" and Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the disclosure of information on sustainability in the financial services sector (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union). ...), hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) 2019/088. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 (c) and (c) 6 points (b) (i) and (ii) are replaced by the words (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) 2019/288. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 40, in c. 4 the words.......................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u292	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on the name of the section and paragraphs 38 to 42, including the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee Report. By importer are the name and paragraphs 37 to 40. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the name of the section and paragraphs 38 to 42 as presented by Martin Dimitrov. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u294	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u296	Stefan Shilev? They voted 127 MPs in the Chamber and 2 voted online in a total of 129: 123 votes in the Chamber and 2 online members in a total of 125, against 4 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u297	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 354, para. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 65" the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/288 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the disclosure of information relating to sustainability in the financial services sector" shall be inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the disclosure of information relating to sustainability in the financial services sector (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union). ...).................................................... 2. In § 1a, para. 2 of the additional provisions, and amending Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on reuse and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, are replaced by Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on reuse and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and Regulation (EU) 2019/288 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the disclosure of information relating to sustainability in the financial services sector. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197b, para. The second sentence shall be replaced by the person referred to in Article 2. 197a, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 646d: "Accomplishment for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on disclosure of information related to sustainability in the financial services sector (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union) ...) Art. 646. (1) A person who has committed or has committed a violation of art. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, art. Article 13 (1) and Article 13 (1) 15 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the disclosure of information relating to sustainability in the financial services sector, it is necessary to: 1. fine of 1000 lv. up to 4000 leva. For a natural person; 2. penalty of 2000 BGN up to £10,000. For a legal person or for a sole trader. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty under para. 1, t. 1 is from 2000 to 10 000 BGN and by para. 1, t. 2 - from 4000 to 20 000 BGN 3. In § 7, para. 2 of the additional provisions, and amending Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on reuse and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, shall be replaced by Regulation (EU) No 2015/2365 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on transparency in securities financing transactions and on reuse and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and Regulation (EU) 2019/288 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the disclosure of information relating to sustainability in the financial services sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u298	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on the texts presented by Martin Dimitrov, § 43 and 44 by the Report, § 41 and 42 are on the numbering of the importer. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on paragraphs 43 and 44 under the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee Report. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u300	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u302	Stefan Shilev? In total, 129 MPs voted in the House and 2 voted in total 131: 121 votes in the Chamber and 2 online "123" in total, against 8 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND REGULAR DISCLOSURE OF CANDIDATES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE BUDGET AND FINLAND COMMISSION, AS WELL as THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you are, Professor Gechev, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the The Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of the documents and the hearing of the candidates in the Commission, budget and finance, as well as the selection procedure by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 11 February 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of a new governor of the Bulgarian National Bank with a view to the expired mandate of Mr. Dimitar Radev on 15 July 2021. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 15 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 2 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly I. Offering candidates as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and presenting their documents. 1. Proposals for candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank are made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 20 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank are accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position under the model Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) Declaration under art. 11, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank), Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex 3 to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; e) documents certifying the professionalism of the applicant in the field of economy, finance and banking (diploma for completed higher education, with a minimum degree of education and qualification, Master's degree; documents of work and/or service experience; certificates or certificates of acquired qualifications; recommendations related to occupied posts; acquired specializations in the field of economy, finance and banking; other similar documents). 3. The circumstances of art. 11, para. 4 t. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The questions asked in the order of the point. 2 and 3 shall be notified to applicants in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the hearing. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: 47_kbf@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the applicants within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate presents a concept of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank in 20 minutes. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates in alphabetical order of their own names................................................................................................................ Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee shall set out the questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 89, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no answer has been received in the course of the debates on the matter. 5 to two minutes per question. 7. The applicant's reply to all submitted opinions and questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and a relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision on the selection of each candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When a candidate refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. 10. If there is no candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. After completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 11, para. 4 t. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 12, para. 5 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank according to a model according to Annex No 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other Annex 1 to the Decision; Annex 2 to the Decision; Annex 3 to the Decision; Annex 4 to the Decision; Annex 5 to the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u304	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I open the discussion on the presented report and Draft Decision. Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! This procedure is very important and with it we are beginning a choice that was expected and which, due to the fact that the previous parliaments had a shorter life, could not happen. The rules are important, the procedure is important, the requirements of the Law are important. The central bank, as we know, is a pillar of financial stability or should at least be. She is an important partner, equal to the government, in talks and negotiations with the European Commission, with the International Monetary Fund, rating agencies, international financial markets when debt is issued. It also has a leading role in the negotiations for the adoption of the euro as the official currency of Bulgaria, to which the current government has also targeted. It gives an independent forecast for the development of the economy and the latest forecasts of the European Commission are much closer to those of the Central Bank than the government. When necessary, she is also a corrective and an institution to warn of unreasonable fiscal policy. The requirements of the BNB Act, which are also related to the requirements of the procedure, no matter how laconic they may appear, are meaningful, demanding and binding. Each member of the Governing Council has competence over a number of important activities and responsibilities for the financial system. Therefore, as art. 11, para. 3 in the BNB Act says that those who are elected as members should have high moral qualities, should be prominent professionals in the field of economics, finance and banking. The latter, with regard to the banking case, is usually proven by working at a bank institution.. can in a central bank and under certain conditions in international financial institutions, that is, we must be sure that when a manager is offered and elected, he will meet these requirements. With the wider consensus, of course, the members of the Governing Council and the manager in particular are elected, as the Bulgarian National Bank will not be part of political scandals and quarrels. This, of course, depends both on us, on the ruling majority, but also on the person of the manager and the governors who will be proposed. Finally, our parliamentary group will support the draft proposed rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Is there any lines to Peter Chobanov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision, as per the Report, together with the annexes thereto: Annex 1 - Declaration; Annex 2 to the Decision - Declaration; Annex 3 to the Decision - Declaration; Annex 4 - Declaration, and Annex 5 to the Decision - Declaration again. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u308	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u310	Stefan Shilev? They voted 146 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item, the last item on the agenda for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR PRESENTORS AND FOUR MEMBERS OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF BUDGET AND FINLANDS AS WELL AS THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the terms and procedure for proposing candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 11 February 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Election of the Fiscal Council and four members. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of the President and four members of the Fiscal Council with a view to the expiry of the mandates of Boris Grozdanov on 25 November 2021; Yunal Tasim, Gregory Vazov, Dora Andreeva and Lyubomir Datsov. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 2 proposals to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms and art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Board and submitting their documents 1. Proposals for candidates for President and four members of the Fiscal Council shall be made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 20 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for candidates for the Chair and four members of the Fiscal Board shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the candidate concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher economic education with a minimum degree of education and qualification "Master"; (d) documents demonstrating that the applicant fulfils the requirement of professional experience in the field of economic analysis and/or management of public finances for no less than 10 years; (e) a statement in the form of a template of Annex 2 to the Decision that there are no circumstances under art. 8, para. 2, p. 2 - 4 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms; (f) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3 to the Decision." 3. The circumstances of art. 8, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms are established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The questions asked in the order of the point. 2 and 3 shall be notified to applicants in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the hearing. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: 47_kbf@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order to the names of the candidates for Chairman and to the members within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present a concept of the activities of the Fiscal Council with a view to the position for which he has been proposed within 10 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for members in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee shall set out the questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 89, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. Reply to the candidate concerned within 10 minutes. 7. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and a relevant competent authority. 8. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Commission on the basis of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Fiscal Council. 10. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of President and four members of the Fiscal Council of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When a candidate refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. 10. If there is no candidate for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. After completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 11, para. 4 t. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 12, para. 5 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank according to a model according to Annex No 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other Annex 1 to the Decision; Annex 2 to the Decision; Annex 3 to the Decision; Annex 4 to the Decision; Annex 5 to the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u312	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I open the discussion on the presented report and Draft Decision. Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! This procedure is very important and with it we are beginning a choice that was expected and which, due to the fact that the previous parliaments had a shorter life, could not happen. The rules are important, the procedure is important, the requirements of the Law are important. The central bank, as we know, is a pillar of financial stability or should at least be. She is an important partner, equal to the government, in talks and negotiations with the European Commission, with the International Monetary Fund, rating agencies, international financial markets when debt is issued. It also has a leading role in the negotiations for the adoption of the euro as the official currency of Bulgaria, to which the current government has also targeted. It gives an independent forecast for the development of the economy and the latest forecasts of the European Commission are much closer to those of the Central Bank than the government. When necessary, she is also a corrective and an institution to warn of unreasonable fiscal policy. The requirements of the BNB Act, which are also related to the requirements of the procedure, no matter how laconic they may appear, are meaningful, demanding and binding. Each member of the Governing Council has competence over a number of important activities and responsibilities for the financial system. Therefore, as art. 11, para. 3 in the BNB Act says that those who are elected as members should have high moral qualities, should be prominent professionals in the field of economics, finance and banking. The latter, with regard to the banking case, is usually proven by working at a bank institution.. can in a central bank and under certain conditions in international financial institutions, that is, we must be sure that when a manager is offered and elected, he will meet these requirements. With the wider consensus, of course, the members of the Governing Council and the manager in particular are elected, as the Bulgarian National Bank will not be part of political scandals and quarrels. This, of course, depends both on us, on the ruling majority, but also on the person of the manager and the governors who will be proposed. Finally, our parliamentary group will support the draft proposed rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Is there any lines to Peter Chobanov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision, as per the Report, together with the annexes thereto: Annex 1 - Declaration; Annex 2 to the Decision - Declaration; Annex 3 to the Decision - Declaration; Annex 4 - Declaration, and Annex 5 to the Decision - Declaration again. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u316	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u318	Stefan Shilev? They voted 146 MPs in the House plus 2 online, total The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item, the last item on the agenda for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR PRESENTORS AND FOUR MEMBERS OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF BUDGET AND FINLANDS AS WELL AS THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u319	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the terms and procedure for proposing candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 11 February 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Election of the Fiscal Council and four members. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of the President and four members of the Fiscal Council with a view to the expiry of the mandates of Boris Grozdanov on 25 November 2021; Yunal Tasim, Gregory Vazov, Dora Andreeva and Lyubomir Datsov. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 2 proposals to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms and art. 89, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Board and submitting their documents 1. Proposals for candidates for President and four members of the Fiscal Council shall be made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 20 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for candidates for the Chair and four members of the Fiscal Board shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the candidate concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher economic education with a minimum degree of education and qualification "Master"; (d) documents demonstrating that the applicant fulfils the requirement of professional experience in the field of economic analysis and/or management of public finances for no less than 10 years; (e) a statement in the form of a template of Annex 2 to the Decision that there are no circumstances under art. 8, para. 2, p. 2 - 4 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms; (f) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3 to the Decision." 3. The circumstances of art. 8, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms are established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The questions asked in the order of the point. 2 and 3 shall be notified to applicants in writing no later than 24 hours before the start of the hearing. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: 47_kbf@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order to the names of the candidates for Chairman and to the members within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present a concept of the activities of the Fiscal Council with a view to the position for which he has been proposed within 10 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for members in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee shall set out the questions of the persons referred to in Article in summary. 89, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. Reply to the candidate concerned within 10 minutes. 7. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and a relevant competent authority. 8. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Commission on the basis of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Fiscal Council. 10. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing or its withdrawal from the importer shall not suspend the procedure with regard to other candidates. V. Election of President and four members of the Fiscal Council of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the most votes for has been elected." 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes or remain vacant, a re-vote shall be held, involving up to two candidates for the position concerned, who have received the most votes for the position concerned. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President and four members of the Fiscal Council shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 8, para. 4 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic correction mechanisms in accordance with Annex 3 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic Annex No 1 - Declaration, Annex No 2 - Declaration, Annex No 3 - Declaration, Annex No 4 - Declaration, Annex No 5 - Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u320	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I'm opening the debate on the draft decision so presented. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u322	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-16.u324	And Stefan Shilev? They voted 147 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. in total 149: for 142 in the House plus 2 online? A total of 144, not against, abstention 5. That's how the decision was adopted. That's the end of the agenda for today. The next meeting will be tomorrow, 17 February 2022, at 9.00 on the pre-accepted agenda. Have a good day, guys! [[PHONE RINGING]]
