ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. Colleagues online:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u3	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u5	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u7	Registered 190 MPs in the hall and 3 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is in the manner in which you are led, related to the status of Mr. Mustafa Karadayi, Mr. Boyko Rashkov, the Minister of Interior on 15 December 2021, and, in particular, to the two specific questions put by me, which have the status of non-compliance with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. President, the purpose of all these issues is related to the facts and circumstances of the bullying carried out during the election process in July and November 2021. As I see that the Chamber is bored with these procedures in recent weeks, I would like to give you a few concrete examples or, in particular, one related to my electoral area, Silistra District, as we call there the area of the other Bulgaria. Personally, in my field and in my home village during the election campaign in July, honest and hardworking Bulgarian citizens were warned by a warning protocol not to commit crimes against the political rights of citizens, namely not to buy votes or to influence other voters to vote for a particular political party. These protocols were personally served in my presence, as questions to the authorities of the order were answered that this was ordered by their superiors. And do you know what the answer was to those Bulgarian citizens who were targeted for potential criminals from the Bulgarian state? In the July election... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I just didn't take the time. Allow me, in my first step out of the stands, just one more minute and I'm done. The answer of these Bulgarian citizens was that on the election day the authorities signaled that the person X buys votes for a particular party, after which they cooperated, testified and the person was convicted by a sentence entered into force, and this sentence is the only one of its kind in the field. And we all here in this Chamber together with you owe an answer to these Bulgarian citizens why they were targeted for potential criminals. In order to restore trust in all Bulgarian citizens, you and all of us here in this Chamber must assist in obtaining the answer why and on what grounds these people were targeted for potential criminals from the Bulgarian state, and they are more than 19 thousand across the country. [[noise and lines]] Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As all the items on the agenda today are extremely important, we propose extending the time of the meeting until it is completely exhausted. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Petrov's proposal is to continue the meeting until the day's agenda is exhausted. A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on Daniel Petrov's proposal. Colleagues online:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u12	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u13	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u14	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u15	Stefan Shilev? Vote in this House 188 MPs and 2 online " 190 total: for 72, against 44, abstentions 72 MPs and 2 online " 74 total. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Given that we will not be able to exhaust the entire agenda, we need to prepare ourselves on the new agenda and rethink our position on it, so we want 30 minutes of rest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u17	Fifteen minutes of rest until 9:25 p.m. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u18	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We move on to item one of the agenda for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN CIVILITY. There are three bills. Procedure in the manner of conduct. Ahmed Ahmedov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The previous week, I had taken the floor in the manner of holding it was about maintaining the website of the National Assembly. If some of the colleagues have forgotten, just to remind them that it is mainly about an answer received by Mustafa Karadayi on 15 December and asked the Minister of Interior Mr. Rashkov. This response was important to all of us at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and not only. This response explained the repression that took place during the elections of over 20,000 people. This answer was mostly expected of them as a kind of excuse for their hurtful dignity and especially for their honour. Then, Mr. President, you ignored all of this and we from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and asked questions again. I had asked a question about the cases of Turkian Tatar from the village of Gorichevo and Sami from the village of Samuel. And when I looked again at the website of the National Assembly, I noticed that there was an answer that the issue was inconsistent with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday Mr. Karadaye called you to perform art. 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and today I ask you once again the most warmly if you can pay attention, because these questions are not only mine, they are also of all colleagues from the parliamentary group of GERB and Mrs Angelkova had, and Mr. Terziyski had, so we gathered many colleagues. Mostly, I ask you, when will you perform art. 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u20	Thank you. I'll do art. 103 when you submit objections in accordance with art. 103. We are moving on to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs Report. Here you are, Mr. Mateev, to present the report of the leading Commission on the three bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Issues on a Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-202-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022, a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-254-01-1, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and Delyan Slavchev Peevski on 11 January 2022, and a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs on 20 January 2022. At a regular meeting held on 2 February 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed: Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-202-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-254-01-1, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and Delyan Slavchev Peevski on 11 January 2022; and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karaday and a group of national representatives on 20 January 2022. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Julia Kovacheva Deputy Minister and Ms. Daniela Belchina Acting Director of the Directorate of Law and Mrs. Biljana Stoykova Head of the Ministry of Interior Mrs. Ludmila Krustanova Head of Sector at the Directorate of Migration, Ms. Nina Chimova Chief Legal Consult and Mrs. Irina Dimitrova Chairman of the Commission on Bulgarian Citizenship to the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria; from the State Agency Mrs. Plamen Tonchev President, Mrs. Ani Pironeva Head of Sector, and Mrs. Karakash Director of the Vice-President of the Directorate of the Republic of Bulgaria; from the State Agency Mr. Plamen Tonchev. On behalf of the importer, Law No 47-202-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mrs Julia Kovacheva, who pointed out that it proposes the cancellation of art. 12a and 14a of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, which created an opportunity for granting Bulgarian citizenship under light conditions against investments made. Ms Kovacheva drew attention to the European Commission Report of 23 January 2019 on the regimes for granting citizenship and the right of residence in the European Union, applied by the Member States, focusing on the established regimes for granting citizenship against investments in Cyprus, Malta and Bulgaria. She pointed out that the criticisms of the Republic of Bulgaria are related to the possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship against investments under lighter conditions than the usual naturalization regime, not requiring prior effective residence in the country concerned. The Deputy Minister pointed out that the need to abolish the existing mechanism for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship through investment is also determined by the lack of real investment in the Bulgarian economy, as no new jobs are found through them. The bill does not contain any provisions transposing European Union acts or introducing regulatory regimes. The proposed bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. On behalf of the importer Draft No 47-254-01-1, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi, Yordan Tsonev and Delyan Peevski, was presented by the National Representative Hamid Hamid, who pointed out that the project aims to eliminate the possibility of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship against investments made in the Republic of Bulgaria and added that a number of reports of the European Commission contain criticism regarding the mechanism for acquiring Bulgarian citizenship against investments. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The draft was discussed by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Innovation and Growth and the State Agency of National Security. The opinion of the Ministry of Justice contains objections to the proposal to remove the mechanism for establishing the duration of an investment, as well as to dropping the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit in the country of foreigners who made investments in the Republic of Bulgaria. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior shall pay attention to the recommendation of the European Commission on governance mechanisms and follow-up controls, creating effective and transparent means of supervision, accountability and regular follow-up monitoring for the maintenance or increase of the investment, as well as to maintaining annual detailed statistics. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Innovation and Growth and the State Agency "National Security" support the Law given its similar nature with the Law submitted by the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importer, Law No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, was presented by the National Representative Hamid Hamid, who pointed out that it was proposed within three months of the entry into force of the Law to carry out a full examination of all files on the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship through investment. He added that in the event of a violation of the implementation and maintenance of the investment within the period Bulgarian citizenship will be withdrawn. The draft was discussed by the Ministry of Justice and the State Agency of National Security, which contained objections to the way and the time limit for carrying out the checks. In the course of the public discussion, the President of the Committee on Bulgarian Citizenship to the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Irina Dimitrova said she fully supported the draft legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, as well as the Draft Law, No 47-254-01-1, submitted by Mustafa Karadai, Yordan Tsonev and Delyan Peevski, but expressed reservations regarding the Draft Act, No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Karadai and a group of MPs. She objected to the proposal that the results of the checks carried out by SANS should be provided to the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, noting that only the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice can initiate proceedings for the abolition of naturalization and for the deprivation of Bulgarian citizenship. The President of SANS Mr. Plamen Tonchev said that he supports the Bill, No 47-254-01-1, which provides for the annulment of art. 12a and 14a, as regards Law No 47-254-01-8, noted that the Ministry of Economy also needed to take part in carrying out the checks. Ms Tanya Karakash drew attention to the insufficient period for carrying out the checks, given the long period from 2013 until the two-year period for maintaining the investment after the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Ms. Ludmila Krustanova emphasized on the proposal for annulment of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, specifying that the Migration Department authorises the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and controls foreign investors. She added that the reason for authorising residence is the recognition, establishment and verification of the investment made, focusing on the need to establish a national mechanism for the control of such investments, including with regard to their maintenance throughout the period of residence. Deputy Minister Kovacheva said that the Ministry of Justice does not support the proposals for annulment of art. 32a, para. 2 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship and of Art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Ms. Kovacheva noted that the State Agency "National Security" does not have the power to control the legality of the completed administrative processes of naturalization. Mr. Nikola Yankov presented the opinion of the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators, stating that the Bulgarian regime for granting citizenship against investment is completely equivalent to the regime in other European countries, as well as in the US and Canada. He noted that the Bulgarian regime is much less favourable given the double investment needed to obtain permanent residence in Bulgaria and to acquire Bulgarian citizenship. Mr. Nikola Yankov pointed out that the requirements of the European Commission are aimed at controlling the fulfilment of the conditions for granting Bulgarian citizenship, as well as at controlling the origin of the money. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Nikolina Angelkova, Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov, Atanas Slavov, Peter Petrov, Krum Zarkov and Hamid Hamid. To the questions asked by the MP Nikolina Angelkova, the Deputy Minister replied that for the period 2017 "February 2, 2022' 92 persons have acquired Bulgarian citizenship on naturalization on the basis of art. 14a, with the President's Decree taken away the naturalization of 7 persons, added that the Ministry of Justice did not maintain a register of the type and size of investments. Ms. Kovacheva explained that the usual investments made in connection with the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship are in the purchase of government securities or are invested in a licensed credit institution under a trust management contract MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov, Atanas Slavov and Krum Zarkov said they will support the bill tabled by the Council of Ministers. Ms. Miteva drew attention to the lack of subject matter in Law No 47-254-01-8, stating that the proposed transitional norm could find a place in the corps of the Law after the corresponding revision. Mr. Mihailov pointed out that the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship through investment is not a catalyst of the investment process in the country, which is why it is not justified the existence of the provisions of art. 12a and 14a. People's representative Krum Zarkov said he would not support the draft laws proposed by the DPS, but noted that careful discussion of the proposal to remove the possibility of aliens staying in the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of investments made in the country is needed. He also objected to the proposal to refer to the Vice President of the Republic in case of irregularities found in proceedings for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, believing that the procedure provided for in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship should be followed. National Representative Petar Petrov said his disagreement with the draft legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, believing that compliance with the European Commission's requirements on the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship constitutes a refusal of state sovereignty and interference in the process of granting citizenship. He emphasized on the need to increase control over investments on the basis of which Bulgarian citizenship was acquired and stated his support for the bill providing for verification of all investments for citizenship. After the discussion of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: with 12 votes for the Bulgarian citizenship, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2022; with 2 votes for the Bulgarian citizenship, without the vote of the National Assembly and 13 votes for abstention, propose that the National Assembly should not adopt the Law amending and supplement the Law on Bulgarian citizenship, No 47-254-01-1, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Jordan Kirilov Tsonev and Delyan Slavchev Peevski on 11 January 2022; with 3 votes for the Bulgarian citizenship, without the opposition and 12 votes for the National Assembly to the National Assembly not to adopt a first draft amendment to the Law for Bulgarian citizenship on 11 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. Also under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 20 January 2022, there is also a Report from the Commission on Control of the Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Here you are, Mr. Ikonomov, to present the report on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the discussion and voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 21 January 2022. At its regular meeting, held on 3 February 2022, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 20 January 2022. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the MP Hamid Hamid. He noted that the careful analysis of the action of investment citizenship over the past 9 years has found that this law does not fulfil the functions for which it was introduced. The cancellation of the Golden Passports is considered one of the main conditions for Bulgaria's accession to Schengen and the abolition of US visas. Bulgaria is threatened with criminal proceedings by the European Commission if it does not end this practice. Practically the possibility of obtaining Bulgarian passports against investments has not brought any dividends to the Bulgarian state. It is proposed to carry out a full inspection by the State Agency of National Security (DANS) of all specific cases for the granting of Bulgarian citizenship according to the order of art. 14a from the entry into force of this mechanism until its cancellation. The President of the Commission Mr. Ikonomov briefed the Members of the National Assembly with an opinion on the draft Law by the National Assembly, according to which to carry out a full examination of all files on the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship according to art. The authorities of the Ministry of Economy should also be included. With regard to the proposed three-month period for carrying out the verification by the SANS, the same is short and insufficient. The checks by the SANS should cover a larger period of time and their results should be sent to the Minister of Justice in view of its powers under art. 31, para. 2 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. On the basis of the discussion held and after the subsequent vote, the Commission with 4 votes in favour and 9 votes in abstention proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, No 47-254-01-8, submitted by Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs on January 20, 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Butler. An opinion from the importers? Here you are, Madam Minister, for an opinion on behalf of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, the Council of Ministers offers for approval a bill that is extremely important, both from the point of view of our society and from the point of view of the trust of our partners from the European Union and the United States of America. It is quite simple to remove from the market the sale of our Bulgarian citizenship for unclear reasons. The big problem that we propose to solve is that we eliminate the possibility that people who do not have a lasting relationship with Bulgaria, who do not even live permanently in the country, on a rapid procedure, on a rapid track to become Bulgarian citizens, and with that citizens and the European Union. So, guarding our national interest, removing this opportunity, we will also safeguard the European Union's interest, the rest of the citizens of the European Union, and we will also increase the confidence of our partners, as I said. As yesterday and today you will have to decide to do a job that has not been done back over the years. It became clear from the motives and from the report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u26	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u27	...that the European Commission in 2019 put this question, in 2021 it again brought it to the attention of the Bulgarian state and last year followed the sanctions by our partners from the United States of America. However, we must recall that colleagues from GERB in 2019 tried to solve this issue. With the kind assistance of the DPS, it was not resolved. [[Reply from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u28	Colleagues, no place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u29	So I call on you, after a careful debate, to support proposals from the Council of Ministers. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u30	Thank you, Madam Secretary. On behalf of the other importers? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! To the reasons to recall the chronology of short memory lovers, as is evidently the Minister of Justice. On 29 November 2012, the National Assembly adopted, at second reading, the Law amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act, where the Transitional and Final Provisions The Parliamentary Group of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" is opposed, wants this text to be dropped because there are no guarantees that this citizenship has sufficient control; that investment will be real because it is given to be in government securities. That is, it warns what will happen to the vicious practices that happened later. Our motion to drop out is not accepted, we are leaving the Chamber and we are not voting. This is the position of the DPS. The veto of President Plevneliev also followed on this text. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has voted for the veto! However, the veto was rejected by the votes of the parliamentary group of GERB and the Blue Coalition. [[Applause from DPS.]] Here are the transcripts, here are the votes! If you want, I can write them down by name. It's for the short memory. Let's move on. In these eight years, from 2012 to 2020, hundreds of such cases are accumulated where the scheme is always the same investment in the SCC through a law firm that is not close to the DPS, as has been proven to be close to other people; purchase of government securities; issuing a certificate that there is an investment made for 1 million and 1 BGN.; should give permanent residence or citizenship. The investment shall be maintained for the duration of the S.E.C. with a loan from the relevant bank where the S.E.C. is pledged. After the expiry of the loan period, which is also the term for the investment, the securities are absorbed by the bank and the investor has taken the money in advance with the loan. For him remains the cost to the law firm and the interest to the bank. This is the price of the citizenship in question. That's what we meant when we disagreed with this model! In 2019 the National Assembly established a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate facts and circumstances for corruption in giving Bulgarian citizenship, but not on the investment path, but on origin. It was about publications in foreign media. In the course of the work, however, we also met these perversions, if I may call them that. The truth in what you said is that Minister Ahladova, the then Minister of Justice of GERB, offered to drop investment citizenship. In the Commission, we have been thinking and examining how things are in other countries. There were seven countries to which the European Commission had notes.. Malta, Cyprus, Greece, Bulgaria, Portugal, Spain, Northern Ireland. All the other countries had not yet finished, but had changed their legislation on issuing investment citizenship by tightening the conditions and control. The Commission, consisting of 16 members, two of whom from the DPS, plus a chairman, plus one other member, recommended, will read it to you in the Report: The Member recommends Bulgaria not to suspend investment citizenship, but to regulate and monitor it strictly in order to create effective guarantees that it is about real investments creating jobs and added value. That was the opinion of that moment. The Commission has developed a Draft for legislative changes that have really tightened this regime and control accordingly. The bill, as a matter of fact, was not only signed by BSP. Mr. Krum Zarkov was all the time about dropping this citizenship in the Commission, and when it came to the Bill, but everyone else signed it. This is not the way to stay the regime here is the manipulation, Madam Minister! And it's not just you, it's a whole bunch of people. It's not the same mode left! The same regime is completely canceled. There's no S.E.C., there's no path that was allowed... The mode's changed, the mode's tightened, and so is the control. No passport under the new regime has been issued since the adoption of the Law. Why? There's a lot of reasons. One of them is that it is not profitable for those who want a fast track for European citizenship to go through all these checks and make real investments with jobs. That's the answer to the question. After the European Commission report came out in December last year on the progress of negotiations on visa waiver for European citizens for the United States, the DPS parliamentary group, taking into account this result that our partners definitely do not want the tightened regime; also considering that the new regime is practically not working, there are practically no investments made, we have decided to propose that this mechanism be completely abolished in a bill. You honourable Members, decide where is the change in the position of the DPS parliamentary group, since we have been initially against the vicious model; once we have participated in the general change of this model and then, seeing that it is not working and that it is not accepted by our partners from the United States and the European Union, we want it to be dropped. You might want us not to have the right to a legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You are also welcome to comment from an importer on the third bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! The third bill that we are dealing with today and the second one that we are proposing contains only one paragraph, but for us and for the whole European Union, for all European citizens is extremely important. We demand that an examination be carried out absolutely on every particular case of the existence of the mechanism, which has existed since 2013, is published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 16 of 2013, to this day. As we have heard from Mr. Tsonev, after the changes of March 2021, no such passport has been issued, because for the first time there were requirements for the creation of a minimum of 20 jobs, which is extremely important. Unlike many other countries that actually attracted investment on this mechanism, unfortunately Bulgaria failed. In other words, this text, which was introduced to attract investment, did not do its job. We demand that a complete check be carried out of each procedure, of each intermediary under this procedure "Each firm that has a mediation contract, of every law firm that has represented it, and where there are established violations, initiate a procedure for withdrawal of Bulgarian citizenship. Yes, we accept the remarks of the Ministry of Justice and the Presidency that after the DANS procedure should not go directly to the Presidency, because there is a relevant committee in the Ministry of Justice that should not be skipped. It's a eraseable thing between first and second readings. Why did we ask for a three-month term? Because a lot of these files have already been checked. At the request of several ministers of justice, as well as on the signals of MPs and citizens to the Prosecutor's Office, a large part of all 113 Golden Passports have been checked anyway. We think that in three months the rest can be checked no more than 20 cases. We believe that the deadline is absolutely sufficient. The inspection must give answers not only to the questions of society, the Bulgarian citizens, but to the whole European Commission. This week, at a meeting of the LIBE Commission in the European Parliament on Tuesday, the draft report, which was drawn up by the rapporteur Sofia In't Velt, was adopted by a huge majority in the European Parliament with regard to the Golden Passports (Golden Passports) in the Union. The questions and findings of the Commission I will allow myself to read briefly two or three passages: The Golden Passports are unacceptable from an ethical, legal and economic point of view and pose a serious risk to the security of the European Union. A recommendation will also be made to third countries that have visa-free access to the European Union, and proposals will also be made to end these vicious practices in their countries. The rapporteur Sofia In't Velt concludes his report with the following sentences: "To be a citizen of the European Union or to reside in it is at the heart of what the Union embodies "freedom and rights." Citizenship is a right, not a commodity that can be bought and sold. The governments of the Member States are selling what does not belong to them by using the European Union's reputation for profit. Their cynical business threatens our common security. In a nutshell, both in the LIBE Commission and in the European Parliament, the conclusion is that the situation is in a very bad situation. The situation, as the classics say, is a bit of a mess. So I ask you, fellow Members, to support our bill so that there is no zero tolerance to the sale of gold passports. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u34	Thank you. I'm opening the bill discussion. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Dear importers, colleagues! My statement is, of course, in favour of the Law of the Council of Ministers for several reasons. First of all, with the inauguration of the Council of Ministers and Minister Yordanova, it was made an announcement that this will be one of the first bills the Ministry of Justice will prepare and submit to implement very clear and explicit recommendations of the European Union. Secondly, the topic of Bulgarian citizenship is a fundamental topic because citizenship, as we know colleagues, is the main legal and political relationship of the individual with the state. Citizenship is not just a set of rights and opportunities, but citizenship is about values, about the individual's loyalty to the state and the state to the individual. That is why light treatment of the subject of citizenship is unacceptable. Unfortunately, colleagues, in recent years we have witnessed numerous abuses of Bulgarian citizenship and citizenship obtained on the basis of investments and citizenship obtained on the basis of, notice, special merit under art. 16 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. I believe that in this matter we also owe a certain legislative initiative because over the years there have been Russian oligarchs who for special merit received Bulgarian citizenship, there have been all kinds of people of dubious origin who received citizenship for special merit, and here we owe at the legal level the least criterion and what is the special merit for the state, I close this clamp. At the same time, the Law of the Council of Ministers is balanced because it does not allow Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of investments, but still gives and leaves the possibility of lasting and long stay if a person has made a serious investment in the country. To conclude my speech, however, I should point out the following: investments in Bulgaria will come when there is a rule of law, when there are very low levels of corruption and not so much with similar incentives. With regard to the DPS fellow Members' bills. I understand this activity as an attempt to clear the darkened public image of the Movement as a result of the sanctions under the law, but I also believe that more serious efforts should be made to do so. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u36	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Replices to Atanas Slavov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Slavov, thank you for your speech, where you highlighted the difference between the two similar laws of the Council of Ministers and the bill for annulment of art. Art. 12a. 14a, but there is a cancellation of art. 32a, as well as the corresponding text with corresponding texts in other laws at all. The European Commission's criticism, Mr. Slavov, is about residence, i.e. not only removing passports, citizenship on this basis. The Commission says: remove also the short long-stay runway, because there are currently only three countries that provide citizenship on this track, and Cyprus has already limited to 2020, which deals with applications, removing this mechanism. But 12 are the member states of the European Union which, on the basis of investments, provide a long stay. There are also criticisms about the so-called Golden Visas, i.e. on the basis of investments, some countries provide visas. The European Commission is looking at these issues in full on visas, on continued residence and on citizenship itself. That is why we have provided for the abolition and the grounds for continued residence on this basis, and this consists of the differences between the two laws. I do not advise you to enter into concern about the image of the DPS, it is evident by the number of our MPs. I don't know about your number any more, but out of four or five coalitions, you have a carriage of people, no. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u38	Are there any other lines to Atanas Slavov? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, associate professor Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u39	Indeed, Mr Hamid, this is the main difference between the two bills, but there is also another important difference "The Law of the Council of Ministers has gone through a very serious impact assessment and interdepartmental coordination, due care has been put in place to make this correct balance between citizenship, which is proposed to be taken away, with this possibility of citizenship based on investment and permanent residence. After closing this big door, I think that the status of permanent residence will not be such a general problem, especially when there are still restrictions on the type of investments to be made and on the control, as Mr. Tsonev also noted, this difference from 2019 with the legislative amendments. Regardless of what is the opinion of the "Democratic Bulgaria" and of our supporters about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Karadaye, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Chairman, when from this tribune, MPs and ministers speak with factual inaccuracies according to your terminology in the spoken Bulgarian language, this is called a lie, please make comments. I take occasion from the previous statement, even from Mr. Slavov. In 2012, there were no sanctions under the "Magnitski" but the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" there was the same position as today, as we have heard, and with facts, stenograms and votes that Mr. Tsonev presented here. But the proxyts of the circle, such as the Blue Coalition, the Reformation Bloc, the Democratic Bulgaria, the Yes, Bulgaria and so on, as we see, in different times they have voted for this law and I think that when they come out of this tribune and speak factual inaccuracies, you should remind them. Just a few minutes ago, Mr. Tsonev said who voted under this law. It is to you, Mr. Chairman, the request to make comments, otherwise public opinion is clear. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u42	Thank you. I'll let Factology be clarified within the debate. Mr. Kulenski, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We from the Parliamentary Group continue the Change we will support the Law of the Council of Ministers because we believe that it best reflects the recommendations of our European partners. I would like to draw attention to the bills that have imported the DPS. It's nice to know when the DPS is talking about canceling the gold passports, that there are two sides to the coin. I'll argue why. On 20 March 2020, Mr. Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs submitted a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 054-01-26, with which, notice, they have proposed the Report of the Commission on Legal Affairs at the time: To improve the opportunities for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on naturalization by persons who have received permission for permanent residence on grounds of investments made under the terms and under the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. In a plenary session of 29 October 2020, one of the importers Mr. Yordan Tsonev put forward the following arguments for the preservation of the gold passports. I quote from the transcript of the plenary session, colleagues: I appeal to you to support it in order to produce between first and second reading a joint bill, including the possibility of investment citizenship, as it is still called. Mr. Tsonev, I don't mean to bicker at all, but you seem to have suffered a great catharsis on other topics, not only about the gold passports. And for you, colleagues, when the DPS tells you: "Good day! " better look up where the sun is. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u44	Colleagues, please also keep the good tone between the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u45	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u46	For a line, Mr. Tsonev? Here you go, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kulenski, the factual inaccuracies to get us up first. The bill is not of the DPS and first read out loud by whom it is filed by a group of MPs, who are of all parliamentary groups without BSP, members of the Temporary Commission. However, this factual inaccuracies leads to relevant conclusions. [[a line from MP Mustafa Karadaye]] The conclusions you made from this inexactness are just as inaccurate as the imprecise. The statements that you have quoted are so, and I in no way deny, say, them, because they have been made in the context of the Commission's decision following an evaluation of what the other countries have done. In Bulgaria the investment climate is bad, in Bulgaria foreign investments decline. The other countries have not given up on this mechanism over 20 billion. The dollar annually comes into the countries under this mechanism, but when this mechanism is real, real investment, with real control. That is why I have defended the new mechanism, the new mechanism with real control, real investment and real job creation. However, after and after tightening the regime that both Cyprus and Malta have done, and Greece and Portugal and Northern Ireland, since the European Commission and our Zadokian partners are still adamant that no tightening of the regime is working, but we want to cancel this opportunity, of course, that we will comply. We are therefore partners to comply with what the common debate in the European Union offers and leads to this. And yesterday's I think it was what Hamid Hamid quoted, the Commission's report LIBE is also in this direction, I see no change at all. That's the natural course of things. You're trying to keep an investment method by making it real by making it controlled, truly controlled. Since it is not accepted, since the issue of citizenship is believed to be a matter of the whole European Union and not of a separate country, then we accept this, so I do not see a colosis in what has happened. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u48	Hamid Hamid for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's right, Mr. Kulenski, even the year you got it wrong. This is not 2020. Read, read more correctly the transcripts and the years and I don't know who, when you say good day! May I remind you, actually? Am I a Canadian citizen? I'm not a Canadian citizen. I am not a Canadian citizen. " - Should the Constitutional Court say he is a Canadian citizen? You walk away every twenty seconds of a different opinion. You're a complete mess, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u50	The last thing he had to do with the Bill is unclear. The third line is from Antoinette Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kulenski, your quotes were absolutely accurate, although colleagues here disagree. I would like to add to your exhibition another quote from the summer of 2021. Let us recall the message published by the Ministry of Finance of the United States, which says that: "Pejevski has used Zhelyazkov to implement a bribe scheme concerning Bulgarian documents for residence of foreign citizens, and that both persons are referring to Peevski and Zhelyazkov were in charge of a scheme for sale of Bulgarian residence documents. Mr. Karadayi, I am very sorry that you will excuse the absence again. There may be good reasons why your bill Peevski is not here. Then he could have told us exactly what were the schemes with Mr. Ilko Zhelyazkov, who is alleged by the US Treasury Ministry, in order to make this an occasion for the sanctions under the "Magnitski" that they both carried out? I'd also like to ask: where is Mr. Ilko Zhelyazkov... [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] That was Mr. Kullensky's line. Will you excuse Mr. Peevski's absence and where he is as an importer, because I would like to ask: what happened to Ilko Zhelyazkov and their schemes, mentioned by the U.S. Treasury Department, in order to get to the sanctions under "Magnitski"? [[Applause from DB and We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. It's a hole, Mr. Kulenski. Please, you have the floor. Colleagues, I ask you not to leave the subject of the debate and the presented bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u53	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Thank you to the replicators. I'm not getting to the point. There are shorthands. Everyone can see who said what, when they said it, what year the bill is and what it says. I just want to clear up that factual inaccuracies Mr. Tsonev was talking about. Namely, I did not say that the bill was submitted only by the DPS, but I said: by Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u54	Colleagues, please don't move! Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Mr. Karadayi, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since Mrs. Tsoneva wanted me to answer her, I will use the procedure as a personal explanation to answer her. Mr. Peevsky's behavior, Mrs. Tsoneva, I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u56	Mr. Karadaye, I'm sorry. I gave you a procedure in the manner of conduct and not for a personal explanation, as you were not personally affected. [[DPS lines.]] In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, on your proposal, I will speak in the manner of conduct and then I will also take the floor under the personal explanation procedure. Mr. Chairman, when Mrs. Tsoneva speaks from this platform where Mr. Peevski is, there is no need for anyone else to remind her where Mr. Peevski is for one simple reason. In the Bill for the annulment and verification of all so-called Golden Passports is Mr. Peevski's signature, and Mr. Peevski's position is clear. And tell Mrs. Tsoneva to check what the factual picture is so that there are no such factual inaccuracies from this tribune and to be correct and specific. From this point of view, Mr. President, I would ask you, indeed, to Mrs. Tsoneva, and not only to her, to the Members of the National Assembly and to the Ministers, when out of this tribune speak factually incorrectness, to make remarks to them. And you can also use the popular phrase from the conversational language when you lie. Thank you. And in a moment, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask the floor for a personal explanation, since there were a few questions. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. As Mr. Minchev said, the facts should be established in the Chamber and the leader of the meeting should establish them personally. With regard to exiting the topic of the debate, I have already made a remark. Mr. Zarkov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u59	And now I declare a personal explanation, as Mrs. Tsoneva had questions. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u60	Mr. Karadaye, I don't think you have any reason to explain yourself. Accordingly, I will not give you the floor for a personal explanation. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u61	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I will try to stick to the subject. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unfortunately, Bulgaria has long been a country in which everything is sold, therefore everything can be bought. Even that sacred bond that connects the state to the people who live and initiate with it. Legally, this relationship is called citizenship. The fact that this citizenship is being sold is not news. Today we close one of the doors on which it is sold. In fact, during the Commission, which Mr. Tsonev presided in the previous Parliament, it was seen how groups actually sold not only citizenship, history, the family memory of people in order to certify or not their origin, how the procedures were made so that the folders piled up and it needed another way to pass the folder on the top row. But specifically on the so-called citizenship against investments that we are going to close today, all three bills that are presented to our attention. Firstly, I think it is largely unnecessary to throw the different importers with initiative and who has done what for these bills for two reasons. The first is that the history of these two texts, which are the essence of the debate, is long. It can be traced back to 2013 and has evolved over time with various proposals in different debates, in different contexts, including in the context in which other countries have dealt with this method of attracting investment. And second of all, because ultimately it's what's happening here and now. And today, here and now of the three bills there are two that are identical. That of the Council of Ministers and that of the DPS with two differences. One is of a technical nature and it must be clarified for the checks of art. 32. The other is whether or not the golden visas will fall into the issue of the golden passports. But otherwise others, the basis of the Law is identical and it must be supported. I said, and we from BSP have been saying for many years that this bill should be supported. I thank the Minister of Justice for being here. It also shows how important it is. This has been the work of the Justice Department for a long time, let's be honest. It started and was brought to a degree by Minister Ahladova. Minister of GERB, continued during the service government, Yanaki Stoilov as Minister worked on it, Minister Yordanova finished it because it was the move of events. And now I think we need to say a few things to make sense not only by closing this path to acquire passports, but also by the way these roads open. So today, when we are going to cancel the provisions in question, it seems to me that we need to say a few things to each other. The first is in terms of legislation. The way legislation developed through art. 12a and 14a The provisions at the heart of the Law showed how easily private interests are hidden behind the common one. Note that since 2013, there have been amendments to the law itself, debates, veto, temporary committee and whatnot, but it turns out that hundreds of people have benefited from this thing. What does public attention show us, which was focused, and parliamentary time, institutionally wasted, and the final result? It showed us that it was not at all a question, at least in the heads of some people who took advantage of this, of some real policy, but it was about an attempt to open a market, a market that eventually developed to one extent, but which potentially had another. And it is no coincidence at the moment when the Temporary Commission and then the Law, after all the disputes where I agreed, and BSP, where not, it doesn't matter, at the moment when the investment was required to be real, in the sense of having real economic activity, and not just a deposit, to have created jobs, and not just moving some money from one bank to another, at that time there was no more interest in this procedure. And it took the Bulgarian state a few years to understand it. Once again, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, outside they understood it before we did. Again! Why, it's a question of second reading. And this is the reading of institutionality, because whatever measures we were implementing, whatever restrictions we were putting, the inefficiency of the control institutions or at least the doubt that they could be drilled, made it so that no one took these legal guarantees seriously. And that is why a very fast citizenship, which should facilitate a conscientious investor, has become a gold-plated passport. A policy of attracting investment has become a sale of citizenship, of identification documents. That's question number two. It is related to the third bill proposed by the DPS, namely verification of everything that has happened so far on this line. There should be a check like that. I support the idea of checking. However, I believe that the bill is unnecessary. Such a check, as far as I know, has already been assigned. And I think we should keep you on your toes, Madam Minister, on your toes, and ask for the results of it. I assume you'll take the floor. Finally, but not least, the whole process of the last ten years and what is happening today must clearly show us that investments, growth, prosperity are not achieved through a scheme. For them there is no easy way neither by selling a passport nor by turning the country into a tax haven. So investments won't come, or at least not the ones we expect. Don't get any illusions. It takes legal order, educated people, and in general the perspective of the country in which people want to come to realize their business, or why not create families and live. Since the truth is bitter, the interest of these citizens was not in the Bulgarian passport, the interest was in the law that gives this Bulgarian passport to go and live or travel easily in Europe. It is no coincidence that those citizens who are identified are not in the country. In conclusion, according to the parliamentary group of BSP should be supported with two hands, I would say the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The proposals that have been made by the DPS and which may be worth continuing to discuss the issues of permanent residence, the interim checks and the verification required for the whole can continue to be discussed through proposals between first and second reading or otherwise, but now-for now this bill must be adopted unanimously, as a clear sign that Bulgaria has finally closed this door. Thanks. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Minister, come in, you have the floor. Then for a line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking this opportunity to provide you with a little more information about the checks that are currently under way. You are most likely informed by the public space that 48 files initiated by Minister Stoilov have been completed in six of them. It is about checking the compliance with the requirement to maintain the investment within a two-year period. There are six cases where violations have been detected, and I have taken the appropriate action to withdraw Bulgarian citizenship. I've asked the NSA to check 19 more of these files that are currently being checked. In addition, a letter of 4 February from the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office requested information on all cases of persons who acquired Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of art. 14a of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship in the period 2015 - 2021. The answer was sent on 9 February 2022. By letter dated 7 February, the Special Prosecutor's Office requested certified copies of the log and registers kept in the Ministry of Justice for the period 1 January 2015. We have informed the Specialized Prosecutor's Office that we are working and that all necessary information will be sent to them on February 18th. In relation to the verification launched by the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, the SANS also checks all the information we provide, so you see that in all cases checks are under way and are currently underway. Thank you. [[Private applause from SG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, Mr. Letifov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zarkov, your statement is in principle and we support what you said. The gap came at the end when you announced that you would support one bill, the others would stay away. In fact, the topic is one, there is no obstacle to them being supported and being united as meaning and texts between the two readings and the second reading to get a text that meets all expectations and mostly public. We're throwing facts here and only factology should be used, it's an extremely sensitive question for a number of reasons both colleagues said, and Mr. Zarkov, but there's not much time in the line. The minister at the beginning said that for vague reasons it was this citizenship. No, the reasons are very clear! This allowed the legislator, this was an opportunity and took n number of foreign citizens to reside or to be Bulgarian citizens. The question here is in two directions: one is absent at all as an opportunity, there is no doubt, but the other form to clear this doubt is the checks of all cases, and through the institutions, through the decision to show, on the one hand, the will of the National Assembly, of all institutions and, on the other hand, the result to be this individual case to be checked. There's no room for suggestion here! The factual inaccuracies that are being made have no place in this case. Political play will not result in political dividends. That's why we need to do our job the way you started, Mr. Zarkov, congratulations, but I expect real support and to get to the end. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Zarkov for the dodger? Here you go. For speech was then recorded Milen Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Letifov, I take the floor to respond to the reply, but also to thank the Minister for the information that has been submitted and indeed this information, as you can see, will be sensitively monitored and we need to find a way together to disclose it, as well as the results of the checks. With regard to technology and what happens from now on? Dear Mr. Letifov, I am trying to avoid the reasons that lead to a result because I believe that this result is important enough not to burden it with various political and parliamentary tactics, technologies and so on. The legislative process will win if a bill is supported today. The identical provisions of your bill have already been well discussed. One provision, which is of a technical nature and in the Legal Committee, has something to work on whether to be transitional, to be... these are technical matters. However, regarding the serious issue of permanent residence. This is a question that wants an additional, serious and independent study, not to be combined with this bill, which is currently well-focused. The Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, where this issue is settled, there are texts that have no more controversial fate than those we order. And I think this is the next step in tightening all these regimes and the paths that have been opened to make a clear and precise analysis of the Law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, access to permanent residence and so on and so forth. I mean, I think he'll win the parliamentary hall and quality legislation if we focus on the Council of Ministers' Bill. What you expressed and said as a position, I hope, is enough for your parliamentary group to state it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Mateev, you have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I, too, will try to make my humble contribution to returning the debate to substance. First of all, I must say that I fully support the Bill tabled by the Council of Ministers, because it precisely and most balancedly regulates the matter of cancellation of art. Art. 12a. 14a of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. As regards the bills submitted by MPs from the DPS, first of all, of course, I support what is identical with the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers as regards their proposal for annulment of art. 32, para. 2 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. This text actually removes a mechanism that establishes whether the investment is maintained and for what period it is maintained, thereby depriving the competent authorities of the possibility of abolishing naturalisation and of verifying changes to this investment. So at the moment I could not support in this form the complete cancellation of art. 32, para. 2, you could possibly think of some kind of precision. As regards the proposal to revoke the issuance of visas or to obtain a permit for permanent residence through the cancellation of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. I really agree that this could be subject to an additional debate which, however, could be seriously argued because there are arguments in both directions. One of the arguments that opposes this proposal is that foreigners who have made investments in Bulgaria should have the opportunity to really, as good owners, to reside in the country and to maintain these investments, that is to say, to carry out economic activity in the country. As regards the third bill, except that it does not make clear what paragraph and which law and how it is proposed to carry out this verification, first of all, in substance, the three-month verification period provided for is indeed absolutely insufficient to carry out those checks. Firstly, they cover a large period from 2013 to today, and from another point of view, in three months, there is no way to verify investments that have either been issued naturalizations that have been made last year and the long term is two years. And it is also envisaged that the Bill submitted applications for Bulgarian citizenship to be moved in the old order before the entry of this law into force. A further two-year period will be needed to carry out these checks and this will probably have to be carried out periodically during any three-month, six-month periods and so on, so this three-month period provided for therein is not appropriate. On the other hand, the SANS does not have the powers to control the legality of completed administrative proceedings, such as proceedings for which a decree has already been issued to the President for naturalisation. I think the provisions set out in art. 22 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, fully allow for verification of all investments and the body that can actually carry out and order this check is the Minister of Justice, as well as the Prosecutor General, they actually have the initiative to withdraw Bulgarian citizenship or to end naturalization. It is also provided in the proposal of the DPS to make the signals to the Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is really not an organ for the withdrawal of naturalization, the proposals go through the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. Let us not comment that, in fact, the one who issued the decrees and revoked by law is the President, he has only delegated powers to the Vice President. From this point of view, I am really proposing to Members of Parliament that we support the draft Council of Ministers and, consequently, colleagues of the DPS have the opportunity to propose that these proposals, between first and second readings, be proposed to enter the corps of this Law of the Council of Ministers, of course, very refined and bearing in mind all the arguments against. Thank you. [[Unique applause by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. For a line, Mr. Hamid, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mateev, I don't know what year or two checks you're talking about.! How do you imagine checking the entire investment? Because we had the opportunity to say what the investment was like, and they put some money into an account or bought some S.E.C. and then pulled it out, that's the whole point. The check consists of a letter to the bank or to the investment firm concerned, whether it has been done, how long it has been maintained, whether it is consistent with the law and that is all. If a letter to a bank at the request of the State Agency for National Security is delayed for one or two years and for this is not enough three months, please excuse me for the work of the institutions in Bulgaria. And as I have already said in the statement, a large part of these investments have been checked at the request of the Ministry of Justice or on the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Is there any way to determine whether or not these funds are available? That is, it is a quick inspection, there is no need to check factories, factories, ships, there is no such investment, to our great regret. They're imported and they've withdrawn that money. The check is short, simple and fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u72	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there any other lines to Mr. Mateev's statement? Mr. Matteev for the dodger? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u73	Yes, I just want to make it clear that this is actually an official position of the DANS, really, that the three months are not enough. And I say again, if we are talking about investments that are currently within their two-year term, the check for after these three months will not be enough, we will need new and new checks until this investment period is over, that is what I meant by the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. To speak, Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u75	Mr. President, for more than an hour we have been commenting on the so-called Golden Passports (Golden Visas) for permanent residence. We have a clear and accurate position not today, not since yesterday, we have constantly stood behind it, that Bulgarian citizenship should not be traded in any way and should not have a purchase and sale. At the very least, it is shameful that through financial machinations, as described here, with the purchase of government securities just at some point someone takes a passport and goes where they have decided. This thing has continued over the years with the knowledge of both the ruling majority and the knowledge of the people who have been in the current parliaments. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this thing has been reflected and reflected for years and for the acquisition of passports through people who have declared that they had a kinship back over the years and had Bulgarian roots something that happened during the management of GERB, but not GERB were leading in this machination once again, namely people from VMRO-BND. Let us not forget that to date it is precisely the President of the Commission for Bulgarians abroad, broadcast and prominent footage of VMRO-BND, is in the so-called list. It was these revelations made by foreign journalists that led to the protection of IMRO-GNI that thousands of Bulgarian passports were sold. There were and we all know about the fees that were collected by the prominent representatives of VMRO-GNI. So the so-called gold passports are not only trade with Bulgarian citizenship. Much more embarrassing and much scarier is trading with passports of Bulgarians, who had Bulgarian grandfathers, want to receive Bulgarian citizenship, but have been refused. For example, the vice-president of the Bulgarian Revival, who has been living in Bulgaria since he was two years old, is currently 30 years old, has no Bulgarian citizenship, has been denied several times precisely by these national traitors, such as IMRO-GNI. Dozens of cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u76	Mr. Ganev, please, no offense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u77	I apologize. The facts are, however. It is this thing that I hope will be encouraged to remove the so-called Golden Passport, Golden Visa, or whatever we call it, because when Bulgarians do not receive passports just because they have not paid 5000 euros or dollars to another official appointed by IMRO-BNS, this is called national betrayal. That is precisely why, and not only because of this, we believe that a really much deeper check should be made to those people who have received gold passports and because with just one letter to the bank and finding that government securities have been bought and then resold is not enough. There are specific people who need to be punished. I ask from this tribune: what happens to the prominent shot of VMRO-BAND, which is on the restrictive list of Magnetski? He was indicted in Bulgaria and released on bail. To date, there has been no development. When will we in this Parliament finally proceed to a real judicial reform so that such people indicted will not continue to walk freely and face criminal liability? I call on you to truly support these changes, and we will support these changes at the time of rebirth. It's unacceptable, the fact that this thing doesn't work. And what's more, it's disgraceful to sell Bulgarian passports.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a line. Please, colleagues, just to refrain from qualifications, especially for people who are not in this House to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, I am glad that you raised the other side of the question, because today we are deciding about an undisputed case.................. should the state be selling passports? Of course everyone will say they shouldn't. The more difficult and complex issue is related to citizenship for Bulgarians, who are representatives of traditional Bulgarian communities in Moldova, but I will also focus in Northern Macedonia. Because in northern Macedonia, the case is much different than in Moldova, for example. In northern Macedonia, many documents have been destroyed that show that these people are of Bulgarian origin and they cannot prove it. That's where the problem comes from, which you have affected. I'm not going to blame any parties here because I think responsibility is always personal. If someone has dealt with corruption schemes, he should be responsible, but is at stake in the approach of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian legislation, this problem which is there. He's legally at stake. I've said that in a previous National Assembly. The Bulgarian state claims that there are Bulgarians in Macedonia. Let us not say that there are an informal number of people in Bulgaria who believe that in Macedonia a large part of the Slavic population is Bulgarian. At the same time we make these people prove that they are Bulgarians. What if they cannot prove that they are Bulgarians, what are they, according to the Bulgarian state? This is a huge case, and this case must find a solution, probably not today, but in general, with a very serious job in this direction, and then the corruption schemes will also end. Every corruption scheme is because of the narrow entrance. We have a narrow entrance because many people want to apply, but very hard to prove that they are Bulgarians. And they write, "I feel like I'm Bulgarian. " After they say this thing, we have evidence that there was a Bulgarian population there a while ago, we must give them the opportunity to take a much faster, much easier Bulgarian citizenship. If we really talk about North Macedonia being brotherly peoples or having a common history, we should also write this in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any other lines to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u81	Mr. Bikov, what you have pointed out is an indisputable fact. I just want to make a point that I don't know how many of the people in this room know. Macedonian citizens to date, if declared Greek, receive immediately Greek citizenship within only 1, 2 or 3 months, respectively, a passport. I will point out the fact that the Bulgarian citizenship classes are here, are not in front of the Greek consulates, are not in the Greek state. These people there refuse to become Greek subjects. Yes, many of them take Bulgarian citizenship and go to work in Western Europe, undoubtedly. But we as a country must take care of them, not force them to pay 5000 euros. And those people who were taking the money, have charges filed to date. Because they're not empty charges, they've been charged, they've been released by 100,000. lv. A guarantee, but they still haven't been tried and convicted. This is tantamount to national betrayal, because we Bulgarians in Macedonia are told that if you want to get back the passport your grandparents, your grandfather, and further back have had, you will give $5,000, euros or whatever is decided by VMRO-GNI. This has to stop. It is a shame to sell gold passports with machinations over the years, whether with government securities or subsequently, as has been noted. The new rules have led to the fact that there is not a single so-called gold passport, but the trade with passports of Bulgarians continues to date. Because I have a friend whose mother is a Besarab Bulgarian and she does not have a Bulgarian passport to date. She gave up on her even though she gave birth to a Bulgarian. This thing has to stop. I call on the majority to pay attention to this thing because it is a serious problem. Why am I calling you? Because, to my great regret, since this Parliament has worked, everything that comes from the opposition has been rejected. Therefore we will support you, submit it to close this page and tell all Bulgarians with genealogy back over the years that they are welcome in Bulgaria and are welcome to return to their roots. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Anyone else wishing to speak on the three submitted bills? Yordan Tsonev, come on in, Peter Petrov, I'm recording too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! It is clear from the debate that the majority will support the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers and will not support the bills submitted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. In this there is no drama and nothing unexpected, although we expected after the Prime Minister's promise, the parliamentary group of What you are telling us, Members, is that you agree with some of the proposed by us, categorically and with those proposed by the Council of Ministers. It is debatable whether to waive residence with investment. And the other, which is a discussion, not the checks, but whether the time limit is sufficient for them to be carried out. You yourselves understand very well that the deadline can be changed from 3 to 6 months when the bill is adopted at second reading. So you tell us this: that we will not accept your bills, although they are in the right direction, write the same things that you wrote them as proposals for a second reading. Okay, that's probably your contribution to your promised dialogue in Parliament, a constructive dialogue, as we have promised you, a dialogue on which to support the government in its good initiatives, even though we are opposition. You see that this is a good initiative on our part and you absolutely do not want to support it. I do not understand this in the context of the promises you made to the Bulgarian public and here in the Chamber. But this remains, as it is said, to weigh on your political conscience unfulfilled promise. I want to get back to basically two points in the debate in question. The first one is very important........................................................................................................ I'll give you an argument, which is why we want the checks. There are hundreds of cases of acquisition of citizenship by investment route.. 108 or how many there you said not to quote in order not to make a mistake, exactly. Do you ask yourself why there are so few? Krum Zarkov said a market that didn't develop. Because it is enough for most of them to have a permanent residence, including those who come with bad intentions, the check will show it because, let us say, there is evidence that they are connected to foreign services and it is very good for them to have a permanent residence only so that they can move freely around the European Union. That's why we want the check. This check will show how many are those who have received permanent residence and have not taken advantage of the possibility of citizenship and why. This is also a very important moment. So it really is a discussion issue, but we think the inspection will show that we must close this door, too, alas. Therefore, once again, I urge you to think carefully before rejecting our bills. Okay, we will make the proposals for a second reading in the project that you will accept, but this is not the best legislative technique, as Mr. Zarkov said. It is better when the draft laws are adopted, because this is an attitude towards the topic and attitude towards the political partner or opponent, something we want to change in this National Assembly, and we are making a contribution to changing it. There was a lot of discussion about what the situation was when the decision was taken to tighten the measures when the government's proposal was rejected in 2020, because then the bills entered and in 2021 were adopted. I would like to read you part of the Report. I strongly recommend this report to you by the Temporary Committee, which was adopted by the National Assembly, not because I presided over this committee, but because it has a very interesting factology, and this verified factology. At the time the Commission works and at the time those options are examined, there is the following finding. I told you in the previous statement that we have done a very thorough study of the subject before proposing anything by the Commission before proposing the report, and that is why it was adopted with full unanimity by all the parliamentary groups. To this moment, more than half of the countries worldwide apply this type of economic instruments. Of these 23 Member States are Member States of the European Union. " We are talking about investment programmes that concern residence or citizenship. As for the last 10 years, the number of these programmes in the European Union has increased from 3 to 23. I quote to you the November 2018 Report of the European Parliament of the Member States' Investment Programmes and the report was published at the end of January 2019. The period we're talking about. The latter mentions the programmes of Bulgaria, Cyprus and Malta as providing opportunities for acquisition not only of the right of residence but also of citizenship against investments. The conclusion of this report by the European Commission is as follows: that, in relation to the new economic situation and challenges, countries operating investment programmes should take additional measures to reduce the risks associated with security, money laundering, corruption, circumvention of EU legislation and taxation. Additional measures are also proposed aimed at ensuring a higher level of transparency of the operation of the programmes. Do you understand what a recommendation is being made? To improve programmes is one option. That is why the Commission then referred to this option.... to definitely improve the programme. It's not that simple because someone wanted some wicked practices to change. And because today it also touched on the subject of the other method in which citizenship is obtained by origin, what is called, I would like to say to my colleagues that this door with the proposed bill by the members of the Commission, which was adopted, was practically closed because then some NGOs issued documents of origin both in Macedonia and in Albania and in Kosovo and in other countries. That's no longer possible. This is already happening with a committee of mandates, which here in Bulgaria issues this document that you have Bulgarian origin and on this basis you can become a citizen. So then on this subject, the Commission did its job, Parliament also did its job, and we succeeded in a serious problem that had criminal proceedings, and there were arrests, indictees, and if you compared the given citizenships to the one of the 100 and how many, and on the other 100 and how many thousands. So let's go in the direction of improving legislation, to go in line with the recommendations of our European partners. That's what we DPS do, nothing else. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. In view of the facts, I should also provide you with one more information that, in fact, after the amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, which we are discussing, in the Ministry of Justice under art. 12a received 58 files, according to Art. 14a received 30 files. They're in the process of processing, so we're talking about a little over a year.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Are there any lines for Yordan Tsonev? I won't. Peter Petrov was recorded for a statement, but I do not see him in the Chamber. Are there any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the submitted bills. First of all, I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship submitted by Mustafa Karadayi, Yordan Tsonev and Delyan Peevski on 11 January, not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Please, voting mode. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u87	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u88	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u89	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u90	And Stefan Shilev? They voted 207 MPs in Hall plus 2 online, total " 209": for 81 in the Chamber, against 100 in the House plus 2 online "102" total, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Yes, Mr. Karadaye? I'll give it to you right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Colleagues, I listened very carefully to the debate and requests of both Mr. Zarkov and Mrs. Tsoneva and the others who spoke. In one direction you spoke, however, in the opposite direction you voted. So I'm gonna have to ask you, Mr. Chairman, for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u92	Please, voting mode. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u93	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u94	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u95	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u96	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u97	(GERB-SDS, via internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u98	They voted 218 MPs in the hall plus 3 online, total " 221": for 90 in the room plus 1 online "91," against 102 in the room plus 2 online "104" in total, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, tabled by the Council of Ministers, supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u100	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u102	And Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u103	(GERB-SDS, via internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u104	They voted 215 MPs in the House plus 3 online, total.. 218: for 215 in the House plus 3 online.. in total no against and abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are also going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and by the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u105	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u106	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u107	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u108	And Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u109	(GERB-SDS, via internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u110	They voted 216 MPs in the Hall plus 3 online, total of 219: for 89 in the House plus 1 online "90" against 93 in the Chamber plus 2 online "95" abstentions 34. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened carefully to the debate, we read in the media and the allegations of checks, including Ms. Tsoneva's claims from this tribune to carry out checks that there are certain statements, including Mr. Peevski, and not just about him. And from this point of view, there is a proposal for a full verification bill to be made on each particular case. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, some of our colleagues have even referred to the prosecutor's office, obviously there will be a check on this line, but what is the problem with the Law to put it in place. We've done the bill. In this direction were the statements that everything should be public and transparent, but obviously for some people is more important than the actual picture. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to re-vote the Bill of Verifications so that we can clarify the actual picture as it is and not step on suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u112	Thank you. Revision of the Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u113	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u114	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u115	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u116	And Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u117	(GERB-SDS, via internet platform for video conference) : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u118	They voted 214 MPs in the hall plus 3 online, total " 217": for 89 in the room plus 1 online "90" against 105 in the room plus 2 online. The offer is not accepted. This concludes with the first item on the agenda of the day, namely: the first vote on bills for amendment and supplement of the Bulgarian Citizenship Act. Moving on to item two of today's agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR WATERS. A report from the Environment and Water Commission on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022 was adopted on 10 February 2022. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act No 47-202-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022, adopted on the first vote on 10 February 2022 for the second vote. "Renewal and Supplement to the Water Act" (prom., SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I also propose that the first proposal, which is unsupported, should also read and then open the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u121	Proposal of the MPs Nikolay Drenchev and Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43, para. 2 words within the boundaries of the settlements and the settlements shall be deleted. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u122	And the next one I see is the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u123	Proposal of the MPs Nikolay Drenchev and Petar Petrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 118d, para. 3, ct. 5 after the words to meet the citizens' own needs, the cases referred to in Art. 5 shall be added. 42, para. 2. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u124	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I am opening the discussion on the name of the Bill and the two proposals that have not been examined and voted on in substance by the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I am speaking on the name of the Law to tell the Bulgarian society about the legal outrage that the new rulers have created. The main bill is proposed by the Council of Ministers and aims to solve problems related to the unaccepted river basin management plans and flood risk management plans. The reasons that led to the delay in adopting these plans are complex and I am not going to dwell on them right now. We, as a serious and responsible opposition, are aware of the consequences, so we supported the changes to the first vote. We are also aware of the urgency of their adoption, so we supported the idea that the bill should be adopted in two readings in one session, which did not happen. As I have already explained, a committee was held yesterday in emergency order at 8:30 a.m., before the parliament meeting. Representatives of GERB-SDS parliamentary group took part in the meeting with the intentions for support, taking into account the urgency of the proposed amendments. But what happened in the Commission? During the vote on the Report published in due order on the website of the National Assembly, containing only the texts of the basic bill, we were offered additions which turned out that the Commission had to decide whether the texts that we had neither seen nor had official information that would be submitted to the vote. They did not appear in the report sent by the Commission. During the discussion it turned out that these texts were copied by the State Budget Act and relate to the displacement of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Ministry of Education and Science to the Ministry of Environment and Water. In practice, we have been offered a serious reform through the Transitional and Final Provisions without prior notification and without complying with the requirements of the Rules. Dear colleagues, in recent years, we have carried out a number of criticisms about the introduction of legislation in an extraordinary order. From this tribune, shirts were torn and vowed that such practice would be stopped from now on. What did it turn out to be? Two months later, not only do these wicked methods repeat themselves in quotes, but repeat themselves in a scandalous and terrifying way. Yes, we have also proposed texts in the Transitional and Final Provisions, but they have always been a result of a certain urgency and never in this way, but in the order described in the Rules. What the rulers have done is to bring a significant reform, but without the texts of a heroic trust, absurd and scandalous, in gross violation of the Rules. Colleagues, you have already understood that in the course of the work it is inevitable to have such procedures. The current bill proved it. There was no need for drama on the topic with which you fooled Bulgarian citizens for a long time, but when you proceed with such actions, do it according to the Rules. Apart from that, it has never been clear the reason why these changes are being made in an urgent order. Last week, we learned that a law can be voted on endless numbers of times until colleagues gather from cafes and form a quorum. And this week we learned that we can submit texts on serious reforms without text. In just two months' time, the government has very urgently dethroned the Rules that they have adopted themselves. We put aside the fact that it does not comply with the negative opinion of the Institute at all and that its arguments have not been taken into account. In this regard, as good as we had the intention to support the basic texts, because they are really important, Mr. Minister, you fellow Members are forcing us not to support all this madness that you are proposing. However, seeing with what ferocity yesterday you held three Commission meetings in one day, which is also some absurdity, and your huge but unexplained desire to urgently accept these changes in the course of the vote, we will make our proposals to minimize the damage you are preparing to do. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shishkov? Please, Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Shishkov, you decided not to comment on the delay, but I think it should be commented. Because this is at the heart of the situation in which we are currently in the process of going after the events and putting out fires set by your management, because these river basin management plans and flood risk management plans were supposed to happen, should have been completed, there are resources from the Environment Operational Programme to be completed, but the choice of consultant, the process of developing criteria, the way this project has been implemented, has led us to still not have our table, which we can subject to public consultation, to verification by the necessary institutions in order to finalise this process. Because of this, we also have a criminal procedure, because as part of the flood risk management plans, there are also flood risk maps that we need to present to the European Commission, and because of the lack of these maps, which I have the assurance of, however, by the consultant that they will be drawn up by April, but because of their absence we have a criminal procedure. So it is important to specify where we are and why we are actually looking at this bill. We are trying to accept with these amendments the continuing nature of those plans that expired at the end of last year, and at the same time to make up for the lost time, so that we can also have these maps on flood risk, and have the entire flood risk management plans and river basin management plans, so that we can fulfil the commitment that we also have in the Water Act arising from the Water Framework Directive. As for the amendments tabled, which are not supported by the Commission, they are without an impact assessment, they are a very serious reform which should also go through a serious public discussion, because this is extremely important. Unlike the second part of the bill that you have criticised, we have been commenting on it for more than a month. I have answered questions here, to your colleague, who is standing next to you, Mr. Valchev, I have answered in the media, it has been laid down in the State Budget Bill. So it is not a new topic, while these other amendments, which were not supported by the Commission, in practice create significant changes in the way of water use in Bulgaria, put the waters in Bulgaria at risk, as far as we have no control over the use of such water sources, but I think it is appropriate that the Commission did not support these amendments between first and second readings. For the rest of it, I think I've expressed my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any lines to Mr. Shishkov? You're welcome to do so by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have no explanation for this statement because you seem to be trying to pass the blame for delaying the plans entirely to the previous regular management. I would like to remind you that for nearly a year the state has been governed by several official governments, including your government. Somehow this appears as a white spot, so to speak, on the road map of drawing up these plans. Because these plans had to be drawn up over the last two years, and the preparation should have started two years ago. Indeed, we also have some guilt, but the most active part, the most important actions that should have been carried out in the last year. And in the last year, absolutely nothing happened. So let us not go into this plane, because, as is largely our fault, it is largely the fault of the service proposals. Personally, of course, it's not your fault. That's indisputable. On the rest of what you said regarding the Bill of Colleagues, yes, it was rejected on eligibility by the Commission because it was not admissible, there was no impact assessment. However, I would like to ask these texts, which were imported from the air, do they have an impact assessment?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u130	By decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u131	Do they have an opinion from the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u132	They do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u133	They have under the State Budget Act. Under the Water Act, there is no such statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u134	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u135	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, yesterday we were at three extraordinary meetings of the Commission where we never discussed our bills. The only goal of the meetings was to push the removal of NIMH from the MON into the MoEW. This was the purpose of the three meetings.. something that I do not believe is of such importance. It was not announced at all that it would exist on the agenda. Mr. President, please don't allow any more of this to happen to the chairmen of the committees, because there are constant disagreements, quarrels, and we are getting absolutely no useful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. A line from Manol Genov. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u137	To a colleague of mine from rebirth. Colleague, you have submitted your proposals, you have the right to submit them now to the Chamber, no one is taking that right away, but apart from that objective you have pointed out, I think that in our sitting there was another objective... to update the plans for river basin management and the plans for flood risk management, which you somehow missed in your speech. So two important things had to happen, just reminding you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u138	Are there any other lines to Mr. Ruschev? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u139	Mr. Genov, I did not see to be updated, and I saw to continue the plans of GERB. Isn't that right? In one year you have failed to update these plans, and we continue to work on what has been given. Isn't that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u140	Come in for a statement, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u141	So this isn't about a year, it's about updating the plans and their action until the new ones are adopted, because here, not being very talkative, there will be other questions about who entered into the contract with the World Bank, under what conditions it was concluded. I do not want to comment on these things because they have passed, and in the end we are already seeing their impact... that we must take urgent measures to continue these plans until the update of the new ones, so just, a colleague, read well what we have voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u142	Thank you, Mr. Genov. For the line Tsoncho Ganev. Colleagues, I remind you that we are commenting on the name of the bill and the two proposals of Nikolay Drenchev and Petar Petrov, not addressed by the Commission. We'll get to the plans and the National Institute. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u143	Mr President, my reply is as follows: obviously, the President of the Commission did not understand what was said a short time ago, and I therefore appeal that it is not a normal practice and that it is even unacceptable to bring things into the Commission on the day on which no documents will be dealt with in the Commission, nothing is provided. The problem with the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology is extremely severe. The people are ready, and they are not only ordinary employees, they are scientists and they are ready at the moment of protests. It is not normal for this thing to be inserted, figuratively speaking, into twelve to five, and you, as President of the Commission, know it very well. You must realise very well that this is a vicious practice against which you have been rebelling for years, because almost only GERB is applying it, and now we are seeing the same thing, exactly the same. The same is observed at the moment and at the meetings is accepted all that only you have decided, and nothing else, although the laws are being violated. It is not normal for you to bring this thing into the Commission and, laughing in the eye, you are laughing at yourself right now, because you are stepping on the rules for the sake of the Minister's decision today to bring something in, and you will consider it in the Commission. How do you make an informed decision? How? Where are the documents and when to read the documents in question today, tomorrow or just five minutes on foot?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Andrei Chorbanov has a line. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, please, no discussions through the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will express my personal bias on the subject with the Institute. The Institute left the BAS system with basic logic in leaving that it didn't do any scientific work. So the Institute's place is precisely in the MOEW because it performs functions and positions that are entirely consistent with this. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Colleagues, I remind you, we have not yet reached the texts for the National Institute, but we are commenting on the name and suggestions of Mr. Drenchev and Mr. Petrov. Third line to Manol Genov? Hristo Gadget for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Genov, I now take into account the two paragraphs you have agreed not to discuss and propose to the vote the proposals of Mr. Drenchev and Mr. Petrov. In your motives of the Commission and the text of the Report it says that they will not be allowed to be examined and voted on in substance as they are inadmissible and as they go beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Now can you tell me, because here I notice some different standards. The proposals submitted have, by the way, been tabled under Rules of Procedure and are proposals within the time limit, in writing, as the Rules say. Secondly, some other proposals that have been tabled in the Chamber, not in the Chamber, but in the Commission and on the move, so to speak, which do not generally comply with the Rules, but they are admitted and examined. And the other is, since the proposals in them are wrong or not wrong, I am not commenting on the proposals themselves here, but I am commenting on the principle taken by the Commission and it has not admitted them, because it believes that they are outside the scope, do you think that structural reform, which would follow in the following paragraphs and is admitted by the Commission, is within the scope of the proposals in the Water Act? I do not comment at all on whether it is correct or not, either for these proposals or for the next ones, but the question is whether they are actually within the scope of the Law and within the scope of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Gadget, for the line. Here you go, Mr. Genov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u149	Dear Mr. Gajev, read the Rules of Procedure, there is a record of what, what, how. I do not want to waste the time of the Members of the National Assembly and now to explain to them which Member is saying, when a text can be adopted in the Commission, and ultimately what you are commenting on is the vote of the Members of the National Assembly who are members of the Commission. And I do not think that it is so acceptable to comment on this vote that you have the right to comment on it, of course, because you were present at the Commission in an advisory voice, you were listening, so I call you to read the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u150	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are you speaking, Mr. Nankov? Mr. Drenchev is also waiting for a statement from earlier written, but before that, for a statement is Yavor Bozhankov. Then are recorded for speech Nikolai Drenchev and Nikolay Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB fell out of power, but the struggle and heritage of that government continue to tighten above us and the last example is only a few days ago, related to a huge scandal with a house in Barcelona and doubts about international money laundering worth about 10 million. lv. This scandal became the subject of debates in the European Parliament, the Bulgarian Parliament, the foreign Spanish press and the Bulgarian press, but did not become the subject of attention by the Bulgarian state prosecution or by the former governors in the face of GERB, who downplayed the scandal as media clippings. Borisov himself said that he did not have, has not had and will not have a house in Barcelona, but the media clippings in Europe referred to the competent authorities and they conducted an investigation. The media clippings proved to be of value to other people's organs. No press and no one has ever stated that Borisov has a house in Barcelona. Miss Bikini has a house in Barcelona for 10 million and the question is who bought a Bulgarian model house for 10 million in Spain. Where did that money come from? The answer lies behind a network of companies, planted persons and offshore property. This answer could not be found for two years by the Bulgarian investigators in the face of the prosecution, and she recently received 219 pages of a report from the foreign services that she has to translate, and we hope it will not take us another two years to do so. Nevertheless, our society is informed of this scandal thanks to the fourth power of the media, and here is the time to open braces and thank them that someone is still doing the work, because information leaked to our media is pointed out, I quote: "There is no evidence of legal origin of the funds invested in the capital of these companies, as there is a rule of law in Europe." The investigation there was terminated and sent to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. And here is the question: what can and should we expect from the Bulgarian investigators, because what can we expect from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, headed by Ivan Geshev, who has proved that when 700 million of our taxes are missing and the main players in the schemes, such as media bosses, gambling bosses, are starting to give away their former ordains and talking to whom have they carried them and where have they carried them, Gesev remains deaf?! When everyone saw the pictures, the money and the gold, the international organizations proved the authenticity of this footage, Geshev remained blind. When the European Parliament, the Monitoring Mechanism, the Venice Commission, the international non-governmental organizations and foreign embassies point to one thing, Bulgaria has a systemic problem with corruption, the controllessness of the Prosecutor General and his unlimited power, Gesev is mute. What can we expect from the prosecution, which is headed by a person who, asked about his relations with Borisov and GERB, writes texts with Borisov's PR?! On the state's indictment, we cannot obviously rely on Ivan Geshev, but the truth will find its way, it will come out, even if it costs us more years of fighting, more protests, a change in laws, a change in the entire Constitution. The truth will find its way! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u153	Mr. Bikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u154	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u155	Come in for a statement, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u156	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will begin with a quote that is mine. [[Applause and applause.]] I have come so far as to quote myself from the stands of the National Assembly. The quote is from 2020, February: "This active event is repeated every year, we can put it on the holiday calendar of the state, possibly every February-March to publish an article in some foreign newspaper on the same topic. "The theme is "Barcelona Gate" 2020, February. I will now officially make an offer to bring it into our national holiday calendar to have a day of the Barcelona Gate, where the troupe will come out to repeat it, you can make Elena Yoncheva some such boss of this troupe to go out, perform this folk ritual, take some newspapers, show them. Mr. Bojankov, if he wants to, could be part of this representative group to come out and give a speech on this topic in February 20th. The other thing I have to tell you is that this job is very funny, very funny. Now that you've messed up all the schematics you've prepared, you've found yourself in a complete impasse. You don't know what you're doing for two months, you're analyzing, you're going into confuse situations, we're voting here three times a law, you're going to make a Committee on Constitutional Change, which hasn't been assembled yet, which, by the way, is a disaster, because it doesn't involve three of the seven political parties in this Parliament, and it's absolutely illegal. Now the time has come for February. "Barcelona Gate, April you can pick up the highway.. Hemus................................. to pick up all the wiretaps.............................. And before our eyes is a sharp impoverishment, inaction, brutal incompetence by the ruling majority, irresponsibility by the government and Parliament and, of course, a number of crises as a result. A number of crises that you can't handle.. you have neither the powers nor the potential to do so. A heavy, low intellectual level of the entire ruling majority. Impossible to realize what kind of situation you're in. And of course, in these situations, we get to who? To the old cops, Boyko Rashkov and others who can always come up with some active event, which, of course, is simple enough to get the effect. Because thanks to such people, by the way, communism once fell. They were protecting communism. He was so picked up, he collapsed in three days. They were so smart. Now, they've entered some kind of report. It doesn't even know if it's a report? It doesn't have a signature. You never know who wrote it. There's no telling who sent it. It's been known to be the D.A.'s office. In English, it's half, and the other half is Spanish. Fine, it'll translate. There are, shouting, photos of Boyko Borisov, and they wrote an article about Boyko Borisov, of course, that they also put a photo of him. It stays and they don't have to. But Mr. Rashkov says there are pictures inside. At the same time, as you are blabbering all this nonsense here, the next day you arrive and say: colleagues, let's have a dialogue, let's make changes in the Constitution, give judicial reform. The day after tomorrow you come back, same bullshit. Well, that's not how this job works, I'm telling you. That's not gonna happen! We have endured such dirt and attacks against us long enough, but I tell you that we will not tolerate them: there will be no political dialogue in this Chamber as long as you continue to do all this nonsense; you will have no understanding on our part on any subject; we will not be able to achieve important consensus for the country as you continue in this way. I believe that, among other things, the entire Batak that you have brought the state into, not in the last two months, but in the last one year, where this country does not work and continues to work, you should show a little more humility and see that even we, who are opposition, are worried and ready on certain topics to help you. You have enough domestic party problems that are a problem for the state and which are beginning to become state issues: who cleans up who and how cleans up? You're doing congresses. All you do is bullshit. Start, colleagues, be a little more responsible. You're not in opposition. It's not 2020, it's not 2019, it's not 2018. It's 2022. Your dream to rule is fulfilled. You all have ministers, you have committee chairmen, you have a prime minister, you have a president, you have a part of the justice system. Get a hold of yourself and start managing, not doing any of these equilibristics and shows that don't help anything. What's the point of this BSP statement, a three-minute one that can't even reach 10 minutes? Now, I'm six minutes and I'm gonna get to 10 because I have something to say, guys. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because I have something to say. And since you, on the one hand, are poor vocabulary, on the other hand, these things that you say here, you've been repeating them 50 times and you're tired of it, you're even careless about your attack on us. This attack, which is so large, you claim, cannot last three minutes in a declaration. Now you've decided, you mark some territory here, we fight for justice. No one believes you're fighting for justice. Your sense of justice can only go so far as to, for example, exclude half of your party from sitting in absentia. You can't do more than that, only that's your problem. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We don't care at all. We care as much as it has to do with the state, because you're carrying everyone... Each party is buzzing inside and instead of dealing with the state there requires a very serious concentration on these problems, you have concentrated on everything else, only not on this. We have offered you a solution, for example, to the energy crisis, which you first did not allow on the agenda, then you put it on the agenda, but as a last item, so as not to look at it, this week you did not put it on the agenda, and next week you will probably put it on the agenda again, only eventually you will put it on Saturday, at 10:00 in the morning. In the meantime, you didn't come up with anything. To tell you the truth, I thought you had some kind of training to do something, and that's why you're slowing down so it's not ours, it's yours. Now I will say this to all Bulgarian citizens: no, they have no idea at all what to do. That's why they're slowing down, so they're analyzing, they're learning, but they can't learn, because it's one thing to learn, it's another to learn. You're in the phase in which you've dedicated yourself to analysis. By the way, you won't learn from analysis. There are other ways. One way is to take some action. There is a talk here, and Parliament's work is not working either, because you are deeply disorganized. By the way, I will specifically address BSP colleagues, who are still the oldest party in the ruling coalition and still have some experience, at least to start acting a little more adequate, because there are still some experienced people who have done something. Mr. Bojankov is not among them, but there are other people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u157	Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u158	At least you'd be kind enough to give some tone of normality. It's your responsibility because you're the most experienced. All the other parties, God forbid, take some constructive approach, not learn so much from you, because nothing good you have brought in the last years of this country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u159	Enough qualifiers, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u160	But at least have some rhythm at work and let's stop dealing with this shit. We are in opposition, we are from now on the ones who will attack, and any such statement will cause you damage. Remember that! It'll do you some damage in a little while. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u161	Thank you. Let's hear the procedure of Alexander Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. Because in this room people began to recite themselves, and I should contribute to the discussion with a quote: Borisov is not a dictator, he is a cartoon of a dictator. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u163	The next statement is by Antoaneta Tsoneva on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. Then we have a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will make a blitz declaration and I will not try like GERB to reach the edge of the 10 minutes. But since they have the desire to deal with the festive calendar of the Bulgarians and because there are many days which they believe should be marked, starting from the Sudzhukgate........................................................................... [[speaking indistinctly]] One more day, when you can give what you need to the holy Attorney General, which gives the umbrella to your boss. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. For declaration.. Petar Petrov. Here you go, mate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On yesterday's agenda, a significant touch was placed on society's agenda. This stroke was introduced by Prime Minister Petkov's political cabinet chief, who announced in a press conference that there would be data at the protest that the firefighters and policemen organized on Sunday at the 20th here before the National Assembly would have paid provocators. Such information was provided to them. Of course, this news has caused a lot of surprises. At first, even the media themselves did not believe this news. This news sparked a lot of discussions at first, as lightning was spread. All people wondered how the police would protest for higher wages for 2022. In the draft budget of the Council of Ministers, and in their ranks of this protest there would be paid provocators from the country? Even words were used that one of the 19 persons who were represented by the Prime Minister of the Prosecutor General, one of them had a link with the financing of this protest for me fair to the policemen who want higher pay. A little later yesterday, as this information was not disproved by those who distributed it at the press conference, it was necessary for the Minister of Interior Professor Boyko Rashkov to give a deliberate, extraordinary press conference to amend it, to correct this statement by the Council of Ministers and to specify that, in fact, the data provided to the Council of Ministers by the Ministry of Interior were expected to have paid provocators on the side of not the protest of the police and firefighters on the 20th, at 12:00 before the National Assembly, but in fact expected the protest that we from the party were organizing on the 23rd of 11:00, however, before the Council of Ministers because then he met. This information has also caused a broad public response to nothing else, but because in recent years, when the revival protested against the government, somehow very conveniently it was the mantra that, if you see, the party is this bad boy who does not comply with the laws and can always be mentioned when he has to be brought into the public order and to commit public attention that, you know, there will be some illegal action. And this isn't the first time this has happened. On the 2020 protests, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2017/1294 [2] amending Decision (CFSP) 2015/994 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020. The anti-government protests, when the revival protested, then came the chief prosecutor on TV, on the central news and said, quote: "The Bulgarian citizens have turned beating police into a national sport. " On 2 September, eight sympathizers and members of the ARCHER were arrested on the order of the Prosecutor's Office. They were charged by the Prosecutor's Office, chaired by Geshev. Since I have direct contact with the protection of all these eight members and sympathizers of the age, who have been arrested and charged by the prosecution for hooliganism and for inflicting bodily harm on police officers, I have gone through the entire process of protecting them and I can safely say that everyone is justified to date. The pre-trial proceedings against them were terminated, and those who were immediately brought to trial under the Small Hooligan Act, of course, were all justified. However, this did not reverse what the then rulers brought out in the media that, you see, aging was those who against the law and against the foundations of the state would protest and disagree against the power. Again, the fact that I and all my supporters from the governing authorities of the AGE were part of these 130 people being tapped by the same prosecution during these same protests on the development of a state coup was passed on to the Internet for this thing, but no one did anything at all. And yesterday, when this news was released, that there was obviously some operational data about instigators, provocators, or whatever you want to call them, which would not actually be at the police protest, but would appear at the aging protest, we found out that the opposition's voice................... I apologize a moment ago for not speaking first, but we had an emergency briefing on this subject that I'm talking about right now. We will send a letter to the Minister of Interior today because we believe it is right, because we are not breaking the laws, but protesting legitimately, in the form of a request to the Minister of Interior in an urgent order to provide us with these data, which have been submitted, I quote again: one of those 19 persons who have been submitted by the Council of Ministers to the Attorney General. To provide us with this information, this data regarding who these provocators are, so that we can, of course, take appropriate action. Because there have never been provocators, there have never been paid protesters, we have never carried out acts that are not legal. And I gave you examples of this from the anti-government protests on 2 September 2020, from experience. And that is why we have expressed a firm position against involving the party's name in evidence of unlawful protests. Not with less force, we disagree with the fair demands for higher salaries of police officers to be involved, even by mistake, in speeches linking them to paid provocators. Those people who have been on the front line for two years in all possible crises - economic, political, health and so on - do not deserve statements from the Council of Ministers even as a mistake - to assume that this was some mistake. These people don't deserve this mockery, I'll call it, with their fair demands for higher wages. We must show solidarity to these people, to these protesting policemen and firefighters whose protests began yesterday in the country. Therefore, we of the 20th party, on Sunday, will support them and we will be there because we believe that their demands are fair because we believe that on yesterday they and we suffered from the same data, I will call them, for which we do not yet have information whether they are true or not, and in due order we will want them to be given to us. Because in the end, both Bulgarian policemen and we strive to comply with the law when we express our demands. We've always done it, and we'll do it from now on. That is why this declaration is also because we want to declare that we from an AGE party, when protesting, do not violate the law. When we protest, we protest because we believe that the ideas we advocate and which overlap by our supporters and members are not heard. It's the same with the police protest. Unfortunately, yesterday there were exercises on both their protest and then, with an apology, on our protest. We can't agree to that. We do not allow such exercises on our holy cause or on their holy cause, so we will also be with them on Sunday, so we will send this letter. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And please, colleagues, for the finale I am graduating, thank you for that, and please don't experiment on the name of the opposition. It didn't do any good for any ruling power. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u167	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. 30 minutes off, till 1:40 p.m., coworkers. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u168	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. For speech there is Nikolai Drenchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u169	Dear colleagues! Law on amendment and supplement of the Water Act. This is what we are discussing, this is what we are debating. This was discussed and debated exactly a week ago on Thursday last week, it was a little later in the day. Then after reading the Bill proposed by the Council of Ministers, I took the floor and said that I would make proposals in art. Art. 43, Art. 118. If you remember, then the deadline for submitting proposals between the first and second readings of three days was reduced. By the end of the working day on Friday, I and Lawyer Petrov submitted reasoned proposals with the relevant motives. So, when we are talking about compliance with procedures and the eligibility of proposals made by ARRANGEMENT, please note that they are all made absolutely resonant and within the time limit. The motives with which the Council of Ministers makes the request for amendments to the Water Act mainly concern risk management, account for river troughs, account for huge hydrotechnical facilities, which are of great public importance, huge public danger and therefore need appropriate control. In the same direction is the proposal that Mr. Petrov and I made because, although it seems to concern the smallest consumers, those who use their own water sources, from wells of water for personal needs within 10 cubic meters, this is actually extremely important for the work of the pool directorates. Because they are forced to administer both the huge hydrotechnical sites and the small objects and every grandmother who has a well in the village and with the bucket watering the bed with vegetables she has. It is with the idea of dropping this administrative tribulation, with many Bulgarian citizens charged, and also releasing administrative capacity of the pool directorate to deal with the really serious problems in water management, this proposal was submitted. So the proposal is absolutely adequate. In this regard, Mr President, I, despite the Commission's opinion, which refused to consider it at a meeting of the Commission in substance as inadmissible, propose that it be considered in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u170	It will be, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u171	Thanks for that. I attended the three extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Environment and Water yesterday, and I am shocked by the way these meetings are taking place. I am involved in the work of two committees of the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of the Services, and I have to tell you that there, perhaps because of the composition which is primarily of former officers, things are going in a completely different way. I would agree with the Commission's view that the proposal is unacceptable... the proposal of rebirth if immediately afterwards it was not introduced in an extremely dramatic... the softest word I use........................... the proposal to move the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Ministry of Education and Science to the Ministry of Environment and Water.... a proposal which has in no way been communicated and discussed by the members of the Commission. Since the time that our parliamentary group has to justify the serious changes that we make, although they are quite minimally expressed in changing two of the members, will actually bring enormous benefit to the thousands, to the hundreds of thousands, to the millions of Bulgarian citizens who have their so-called water source for underground water, that is, a well, and who use water for personal needs in a miniature volume of 10 cubic meters per day. These 10 cubic meters per day are not invented by us, they are embedded in European documents and are present in the Law in its current form. Please, despite all the passions, despite the pathetic declarations that have been read so far, take a look at the proposals that we have made and tabled in the framework of the short term; to understand that they are actually referring to a huge amount of Bulgarian citizens, while the most vulnerable ones who are not able to bear the call for it is a net-cost competition and this administrative pressure which is being imposed on them to declare and prove the water supply from their sources. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I conclude with this.. the main argument against the adoption of these proposals is that if they are not registered, there is no way to control how much is paid. Of course, this could be done through the law to control how exactly, but it is far more correct with a regulation that the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water can accept, so that when there are doubts, when there are problems with water balance in the relevant pool, appropriate measurements are carried out and exactly how much water supply is controlled. I repeat: what we are going to vote on is in the interest of all the young, the most vulnerable Bulgarian citizens, and we must do our best to alleviate their existence. Thank you. And I'm asking for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u172	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. We are now in the second vote and the groups have no time limit, Mr. Drenchev. There is only a limit to the speech within five minutes. Are there any lines to Nikolai Drenchev? A line from Tsvetelina Zarkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u173	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs! The changes proposed by our colleagues may be miniature as texts, but as a matter of fact, as said by our colleague, are great. In fact, these are not small changes and may affect small consumers, but, as the colleague has pointed out, they are very largely hundreds, thousands, millions. Our concerns here. We have major concerns, not regarding the control that will take place, but also about the quality and quantity of water bodies, both of groundwater and surface water. And in fact this is the problem that the impact of the changes that are being proposed must be carefully assessed, which will, of course, take time and cannot happen within today. There is also a need for broad public consultation and opinion of the organisations and stakeholders concerned. That is why we cannot accept these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Zarkin. Are there any other lines to Mr. Drenchev? Plamen Abrovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Drenchev, as we spoke in the Commission and after the Commission, your proposal is a very good basis for future discussion. As I told you last time, this proposal is nice to do separately and give us time to sit down and work together. Thank you. But right now, there's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u176	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Third line? Emil Georgiev for the third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u177	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! We have witnessed a strange metamorphosis in the conference room from a procedure for adopting a second reading of the Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Water Act, we have gone into a procedure for expiry of declarations. It seems that some colleagues in this room seem to suffer from a woman's affection, and when they stand...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u178	Mr. Georgiev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u179	No, I said it in the best sense of the word. [[Laughter]] And when they stand on that stands, they wonder how to kill complexes. That's their problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u180	Mr. Georgiev, a line to Mr. Drenchev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u181	I just wonder what shock and horror there would be in this room if reading the declarations wasn't 10, but 20 minutes. We'd be looking for an ambulance. Now get to the point. In connection with this bill, I recall a tragedy that happened 10 years ago. As a result of the chaos of river basin management, the dike of a dam broke and flooded the village of Bisser was killed there, some of them I personally knew. And I call on you to stop me from using some harsh term with my speeches and move on to the adoption of this bill, because we must finally put order in place. There are a lot of dams in the country ticking like a hell of a bomb. I hope the devil doesn't hear me, but there's a tragedy coming along with the Belly Iskar dam, Mr. Minister. By adopting this law, we will finally put the water supply management in Bulgaria under control. I call on you to proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u182	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. He's got a duvet from Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u183	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u184	I'm recording you for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u185	Thanks for the lines. Indeed, water resource management poses a risk when talking about megahydrotechnical facilities, such as dams, such as riverbeds of large rivers. I've never heard of a flood caused by a well that can be drawn up to 10 cubic meters. This is for Mr. Georgiev. To Mr. Abrovsky. It wasn't the moment, I don't know why. The proposal was submitted quite in time, quite according to the Law. In the reasons we have sought to limit ourselves to two paragraphs, and the changes are in two articles that can be read. If we have to, we'll read them again. They're very easy, very obvious to digest. They were available to both the Commission and the MPs who were following the problem, so I see no reason not to be this problem now. If you want, if you reject it now, we wouldn't mind giving you the authorship of the Law to bring it in, and somehow reaping any dividends. But I do not see what dividends you will be making, especially the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) if it does not support these decisions, because they in their election and politics, where they sat and became, said they were concerned about the small people, about the peasants, about the people who lived with their own work. At the same time, we see an absolute violation of their interests right here. From this point of view, I think the proposal is justified and now is the time. Right now is the time to see in this Chamber who is what and who is fighting for what. In today's framework, all the legislation that has been going on so far, the changes in these two articles in the Forests Act concern the most people, the most vulnerable people. This is where we can by consensus do something for people. I'm sorry I brought in this bill on my behalf. I said: because it was Friday night, the hours were running out and the time was running out. The deadline was reduced precisely here in this Chamber on Mr. Genov's proposal. So if you want, Mr. Abrovski, let's finish you as a co-author or whatever you want us to do, but let's pass this thing because it's important for all Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u186	Thank you. Mr. Abrovsky, you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u187	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u188	Why a personal explanation, what were you offended by? No, no, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u189	I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u190	You were mentioned, but where was the involvement? Please. There were people here who wanted to do the procedure. Come in from the DSS. Sorry, I don't know you by name. Alexander Ivanov is also for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u191	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear Minister! My procedure is in the way of conduct, namely: as we know, last December there were areas in southern Bulgaria that were flooded and were in dire situation. It was then that the prime minister said in the media that he would help these areas as soon as possible. We had a question for you, Mr. Chairman, and we just received a letter saying that our question does not correspond. And our question was specific to Mr. Petkov because in his first statements on the media he said, I quote: "It is now the most important how the state can help and how this help to get to those who have suffered the most quickly. " "The Kardzhali, Smolyan and Blagoevgrad have not yet received such aid and people are waiting. Let us stop covering up the promises and commitments made by the ministers in this government, by Mr. Petkov as Prime Minister, and start working and helping these citizens because they continue to ask. Just because you're returning our questions doesn't mean the questions will stop. They have been waiting for the help the prime minister had promised them for the second month. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u192	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. I don't know exactly what the question is, but follow the Rules of Procedure, we'll look at it. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. A few minutes ago, my colleague Georgiev took a line. Unfortunately, you avoided what he began to say. He did not give any arguments in his statement on the Bill, which is being discussed today. He even made a brief retrospective of what parliamentary time was used for the declarations today by the parliamentary groups. My procedure for you, Mr. Chairman, is to observe those speaking in the tone of the bill we are discussing. Either way, today's Bill, which is viewed at second reading, is an extremely important text. Mr. Georgiev should simply make a remark to him the next time he uses the replica procedure to make such statements without respect for the procedures that parliamentary groups have in time for declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u194	Thank you. Indeed, the speeches should also be on the texts we are discussing, and the lines should be directed at the main speech, I agree. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there is a need to have a discussion in the DPS group about the way these texts are being discussed, I ask for a 30-minute break and then we will resume the meeting. Thank you. Thirty minutes off, I want a break on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u196	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Fifteen minutes of interruption at the request of the DPS parliamentary group. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u197	I'm resuming the hearing. I give the floor of speech to Nikolai Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! These vacations are nice. However, we are calming the moods and nerves after that yellow-brown pasquil of our colleague from BSP an hour ago. This is another topic. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u199	Mr. Nankov, please don't say that! I appeal to everyone, not specifically to the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u200	Sorry, you're right. Let's get to the point. It may be nice for you, too, as President of the National Assembly, to make clear what we are talking about, what texts we are discussing. I draw from the lines made, statements made by some of the negotiating colleagues. As two main proposals were contained in the proposed WID of the Water Act in its main part, they are for the extension of the current strategic documents in the field of water, namely the RMPs and RMPs, the River Basin Management Plan and the Flood Risk Management Plan, the extension of the period until the adoption of new ones. Those adopted during the second government of Prime Minister Borisov, we extend their action because of almost a year nothing done by two offices. Subsequently, between first and second readings came into the Commission, he and the President of the Commission mentioned two proposals on the substance, such as our personal opinion of colleagues from GERB, is that they deviate from the main subject and from the nature of the bill voted at first reading. Here, Mr. President, I do not intend to make a statement on the title of the Bill and on the rejected, unmissed rather to the Commission, a proposal from my colleagues from the AGE, but Commission President Manol Genov pulled me for the language by saying to read the Rules. Well, he either reads the rules like the devil's gospel, or interprets it in a very preventative way. Here, please, let's take a look at art. 79 which regulates the rights of Members of the National Assembly as to how they make their proposals between first and second votes, how they are formed in a report and so on. Colleagues of ARGUING shall be invited to submit the proposal in accordance with art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in accordance with it and within the statutory period. It was rejected on the basis of a text of the Rules of Procedure that the proposal proposed by my fellow Members goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. I will come to § 2, in which we will see that fellow Members of the National Assembly outside the procedures described in art. 79 of the Rules of Procedure, at the Commission meeting yesterday, that a procedural vacuum was made three times, calling for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Environment and Water to enter this proposal. The National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to switch from the structures of the Ministry of Education and Science to those of the Ministry of Education and Science. Here, the President of the Commission and the fellow Members who supported this proposal rejected the first of their colleagues from AGE and evidently showed a real double archin in their actions. Because their proposal was justified by my colleague Drenchev, which concerns essentially water-related topics, related to management of underground water sources. The texts that exist in the plans, the so-called pools. There, Mr. President of the Commission, Mr. President of the National Assembly, is given the essence of the country's water resources management not only to the surface ones, but those related to the water horizons of the first flood, and the second terrace of the river basins. The first, second, third import horizons, the topics we discussed and which colleagues want to discuss in substance were rejected as non-compliant with the subject matter and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. You see, in a few minutes, soon enough, beyond the rules of art. No reference to para 79. 6, p. 2 from the President, which concerns quite other assumptions.. how they form the Report and present it to the Members of the National Assembly, passed the change, which they believe was essentially and responding to the nature of the basic bill relating to the transfer of NIMH from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Environment and Water. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, here's the double archin, to put it mildly, as a definition again dwindling, treading down the rules and procedures that you have adopted, which are written in it. I will make my statements on the substance and, where appropriate, this proposal for NIMH from the Ministry of Education and Science to the other office, to the Ministry of Education and Science. In § 2, as voted and proposed on the Commission report, I just wanted to pay attention to you, because you yesterday following the speech of colleague Mladen Shishkov in a procedure made a commitment to check what was happening with the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Water. I hope you checked, because what happened yesterday at these three emergency meetings was, to say the least, not serious. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u201	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Are there any lines to Nikolai Nankov? I won't. Any other comments on the title on the two proposals of Nikolai Drenchev and Petar Petrov? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We vote on the name of the Bill. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u203	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u205	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u206	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u207	Vote in this House 139 MPs and online 3 "total 142": for 139 and 2 online " 141" total, against 1 online, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Drenchev and Petar Petrov for amendment in art. 43, para. 2, namely, the words "in the boundaries of settlements and settlements' to be deleted. The proposal is unexamined by the Committee on Environment and Water. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u208	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u209	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u210	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u211	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u213	Vote in this House 159 MPs and online 3 The proposal of Nikolai Drenchev and Petar Petrov is not accepted. We are going to vote again on the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Drenchev and Petar Petrov in addition to art. 118d, para. 3, p. 5 of the Water Act, that is, after the words "to satisfy the citizens' own needs" to be added the words "outside the cases under art. 42, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u214	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u215	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u216	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u217	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u219	Vote in this House 175 Members of Parliament and Online 3. A total of 178: for 54 and 1 online.. 55 against 108 and 2 online, abstentioned 13. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u220	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Proposal of the MPs Manol Genov, Tatiana Sultanova, Zornitsa Stratieva, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 3, p. 5 the words "the Minister of Education and Science" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Environment and Waters." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u221	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 under the Commission report. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u222	Dear Mr President, a procedure in the manner of conduct, as the President of the Commission has just called me to read the Rules, and that is exactly what I am doing. Now, as you heard from the Report, the proposal of the MPs Genov, Sultanova and Stratieva was made under art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Would you be so kind as to read to me what is the content of art. 79, para. Six? Or should I read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u223	Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u224	Art. 79, para. 6 speaks as follows: Within 14 days of the adoption of the bill by the leading Commission, it shall submit to the National Assembly a report containing: 1. made within the term under para. 1 written proposals of Members of the Parliament and the opinion of the Commission on them; 2. the proposals of the Commission on a draft bill under discussion, including when it adopts such legislation on the occasion of a proposal made by some of its members during the meetings; the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, with the exception of those relating to editorial or legal and technical amendments, shall be made. So, we are currently looking at the Commission Report on Second Reading proposals that have been made under a member who says what the Commission report should contain?! It is up to you here, by the way, whether you will allow any consideration of these articles and paragraphs that have been proposed in this way, because this is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Firstly, because the Rules do not provide for the submission of texts between the two readings which are not submitted in writing and argued within the period provided for under the Rules of Procedure, whether shortened or not shortened. These are proposals tabled during a Commission meeting, and these are, by the way, beyond the scope of the texts adopted at first reading. If you allow these texts to be considered, Mr President, this would mean that the Rules do not really matter and you will continue to look at texts and everyone to do whatever they want to the Commission, to import whatever they want and thus may also change any other laws other than those directly affected by the adoption at first reading. This is not right or rather not possible under the Rules of Procedure, which was adopted by the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Yes, in front of the National Assembly there were opportunities to submit proposals during Commission meetings, but they dropped out. And here I also had the opportunity to consult lawyers who were in the Rules of Procedure Committee. They are of the same opinion that such a text submission is non-permissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u225	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. As regards the provision of para. 6, p. 2, provided that it says: "When it accepts such an offer on the occasion of some of its members' proposals made during the meetings.......................................................................................... during the meetings....................................................................... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I do not want to comment here on whether they are outside the scope of the first vote or whether they are essentially correct, but obviously there is. [[GERB-SDS lines]] That's what the Commission finally assessed when it examined... Either way, the texts will be voted on, the House will also assess and decide on this issue. [[Comments from GERB SDS.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the texts where it says what is in the Report, to say and what suggestions can be made is not serious, at least because in art. 79 There are five paragraphs before that, which govern how proposals are made between the two readings. Article 1 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 79 says proposals that are outside the scope of By the way, similar proposals were correctly reflected in some other reports which dealt with this National Assembly. Even if they were done in the order required in our Rules of Procedure, that is, in writing until the expiry of the term, which was, by the way, shortened under this bill until Monday, I think it was, until 6 p.m. Why was the deadline shortened? Well, because there's not gonna be a lot of suggestions. All of a sudden, there are structural proposals that are totally out of the scope of the Bill adopted at first reading. I say this, Mr. President, with one note, because this means that this National Assembly is ready to accept any defective proposals in bills and not to comply with any rules at all, be it voted by this National Assembly, whether it is purely unwritten rules of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u227	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any statements under § 1 under § 2 under § 3? Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! With an apology to colleagues, members of the Committee on Environment and Water, and to the Deputy Prime Minister, that I would repeat what I said yesterday. Not only will we adopt provisions for the relocation of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology in violation of the Rules of the National Assembly, but we will also become accomplices to a penal action. This is not a political overreaction, it is not political speculation, and I will explain why. Unfortunately, I witnessed the division, divorce of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences three and a half years ago. He went through a lot of emotions. Unfortunately, I attended a general meeting of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences where the votes were heard that the Institute should be punished, as well as any institute that thought to go outside the structure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Unfortunately, this punishment is carried out three years late, organized by the Ministry of Education and Science and you will all become accomplices to this punishment. What does it consist of? First, to be taken away and reduced, to initially be reduced the status of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology as a scientific organization. Yes, it is not formally taken away, it says in the Law that it is preserved as a scientific organization, but the goal is long-term to become a departmental service, will be slightly deprived of participation in the scientific programs. By the way, associate Professor Chorbanov, if you paid attention, at the beginning you gave away the real intentions. He's still working at the BAS. He said that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are not and should not be a scientific organization, even though in both words This punishment consists in taking away some of the powers that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology had on a delegated budget. I can't understand why you didn't repeat the text in § 10 of the Transitional and Final Orders? The same text is in art. 104 of the State Budget Act for 2021. Just repeat it. You're making a second attempt right now. The first was when the Council of Ministers published the draft budget. You are currently making a second attempt to take away the financial autonomy of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. You're doing it partially. Look what you have imported: the right to own income, the right to dispose of funds, the right to determine individual remuneration. And this is part of the penal action, and you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are becoming an accessory to this penal action. If by the other day you were unconscious, you were already aware of an accomplice in this penal action. Part of this penal action is to fall behind the remuneration of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology. You're suggesting that BAS's remuneration increase, you're not suggesting that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology increase. I have always supported the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I did not support her only in this case when they were led by destructive intentions, and unfortunately, at the heart of this proposal is the desire to destroy a service with 132 years of history. It's too bad we're gonna be witnesses and accomplices to this. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u229	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valchev, I answered you yesterday, in the same way asked the question, and last time of parliamentary control here I answered you: I am not an accomplice in any penal activity because this is not a criminal action. If it was a punitive action, you know what I'd do? I was going to say that there is already an institute at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences that is for climate research, atmosphere and water research, and I was going to say, let's just keep it here as a hydrometeorological service, not as a scientific organization. In fact, in the text that you will vote on, it says that it is a scientific organization and hydrometeorological service. Dear Mr. Valchev, I am, besides Minister of Environment and Water, Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Policy. Do you think I will deprive myself of the possibility of climate research in this country? Meteorology, hydrology, these are also directly related to climate and climate policies. Of course I won't. On the contrary, much more appropriate than the Minister of Education and Science, who is with... I mean he is an academic even, much higher scientific degree, but he is not in the area in which I have studied. Not only do I want to tell you that the scientific activity in the field of air conditioning should be strengthened and I even use this tribune to appeal to Sofia University, where it is only located outside BAS the possibility of doctorate and a master's degree for climate. I don't think the way you put it is appropriate. Unfortunately, I see a pretty good synchronization between what GERB says and what NIMH says. But the whole thing we are looking at today sounds like a politically motivated action, because the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology does not change its activities, does not change its structure, does not change its remuneration, it remains on a delegated budget. This is where you let the MPs down. The bill says it stays on a delegated budget. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "No! "]] Well, how could I not?! Look at your lyrics. Please say it remains on a delegated budget. Why is all this political talk, in an attempt to set scientists and workers at the NIMH for something that is much more appropriate? You as a former Minister of Education and Science know how many units, secondary officers of funds, and employees who are under the hat of the Ministry of Education and Science, there are. Very. [[Reply.]] At the Ministry of Environment and Water... In memory, but I know it was about hundreds of thousands, so let's put it this way, because it's not my matter. With me at the Ministry of Environment and Water, we're talking about 1,800 people, and now the NIMH with another 721. Much easier to pay attention to what the NIMH is doing. The whole attempt to be almost an accessory to some kind of penal action. Is it not the idea of the state and the government to set its priorities, as it does with the structure of the Council of Ministers, and to arrange the responsibilities of the individual members of the Council of Ministers? I think that's what this bill, this initiative, is all about. And I'm asking you, really, really well-intentioned, do not take part in this political action to discredit this otherwise quite appropriate process. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u231	Thank you. Are there any lines to Krasimir Valchev? Andrei Chorbanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Valchev, however, thanks for putting me down a little bit, which is not so scary. I've been a professor for almost two years. The problem is the idea of opposing at all the ratio and way of doing science in and out of the Academy of Sciences somehow does not sound good. The Institute of Meteorology came out of the Academy and they made a decision, which was quite controversially purely legal, because BAS is one, let's say, the oldest organization in Bulgaria, which has a little specific statute, a specific way of organization. They came out with some sort of uprising and were fully supported by the then government, in which there was nothing so dramatic and fatal. After all, if an institution wants to develop scientific activity and retains the right to do such scientific work, there is nothing scary about it. The question is: why should it be regulated by the Ministry of Education and Science, which much less concerns as an expertise on what this scientific institution does and not the portfolio ministry, which will mostly benefit from this entire resource? I would say that the vast majority of this, let it be scientific activity, if you will, of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, will benefit from the portfolio ministry. The Minister of Education and Science has no expertise in all that this institution is doing, and there is no reason for it to remain in this form. This has nothing to do with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the way it deals with scientific activity, let's say the duplicate institute of the Academy. It has no national functions and has no functions to serve all these units in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u233	Thank you, Professor. Are there any other lines to Krasimir Valchev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u234	Thank you. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you said please choose me well, I also ask you kindly to understand. There is no political attack, these people went through a lot of emotions. You, if you listen to my words, will understand the reasons for these emotions and their reaction. Don't look at everything for some kind of political provocation. Yes, we then supported I as a minister supported the desire of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to go beyond the structure of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences because I think they have the right to want to develop independently. By the way, in their 132-year history 72 years were outside the structure of BAS, of which 72 years 65 years were to the Ministry of Education in its different names. They were created by Stefan Stambolov's government at the Ministry of People's Enlightenment. Currently, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology serves seven ministries and several other departments, meaning it needs to be equally distant from all these ministries. Yeah, right, it also serves the Ministry of Environment, but it also serves the Ministry of Energy. Why shouldn't it be the Ministry of Energy? To the Minister of Education and Science there are 430 minor ushers will become 429, it will be infinitely relieved by the fact that they will become 429 secondary ushers. Unfortunately, I know what the real reasons are, and unfortunately, I'm listening to these voices. Unfortunately, the management of the Ministry of Education listens first and foremost to these voices, at the root of which are destructive desires. I'm telling you the best I can, like you said. I apologize to Professor Chorbanov for demoting him. A previous National Assembly has taken a decision, I think informally, academic titles to remain for academic organizations, and here to be Mr. and Mrs., so we can also approach it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u235	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Hristo Gadget for speech. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, at your discretion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u236	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will also take account of § 2 in the bill under consideration. I mean, we're in some very strange hypothesis here. Once the government tries to transfer the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Ministry of Education and Science to the Ministry of Environment with the State Budget Act for this year, which the National Assembly adopted in the first vote, where the financial autonomy of this Institute is even taken away. And a second time, to be safe, this transfer is done in the Water Act, and a second vote. Yesterday, the Committee on Environment and Water, which took place at an extraordinary meeting in three parts of the day, the government also did everything possible in the Water Act, which we are considering at a second vote, to propose and accept the passage of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to the Ministry of Environment and Waters after the expiry of the legal deadline for proposals between the first and second votes, as well as colleagues noted before me and in violation of the Rules. The Commission was also attended by representatives of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and expressed their negative opinion and disagreement about their move to the MoEW. From the beginning of January this year there is a position of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to the Prime Minister, to the Ministers Vassilev and Denkov, as well as to you, Minister Sandov, with signed arguments against their relocation to the Ministry of Environment and Water from all leading bodies in the NIMH, as well as 97% of the employees in all structures of the Institute throughout the country. Why is a national organization with a long history being removed from the Ministry of Education and Science and transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Water? As previously noted, the NIMH is working with seven other ministries and its scientific activities are related not only to the Ministry of Environment and Water, but also to the others. His scientific activity is related even to the Ministry of Interior under the Law on Disasters and Accidents, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Why should the Ministry of Environment and Water replace the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology? We must also answer separately questions about the financing of the Institute and this is also the question of the Rules of Procedure for its scientific autonomy. With colleagues from GERB-SDS parliamentary group, we will not support this shift because we believe it belongs to the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I heard now that some strange attempts are being made through the Water Act......he is there, GERB there have put him in the Institute. Why didn't they put it in the Research Promotion Act, for example, is it a scientific organization, but it has to be outside the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? So your group, your political party, did it, and now you're coming and saying that very strangely why with the Water Act, well, he's there, where to go? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] I apologize very much, Mr. Valchev. You speak well a long time ago where he was... Well, it didn't have the Ministry of Environment and Water at that time, when it was there, the Institute at the Ministry of Education and Education and so on. There just wasn't such a ministry. If there was a Ministry of Environment and Water, it would have been to this institution. Why did they decide to leave the BAS? That's what they know. I can't tell if it's right or wrong, because it was their opinion at the time. You supported him, now there's just the logical move to the institution to which... And because here again, you said that one of the seven ministries that serves yes, but what does it serve most? Which one do you think it is? The Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology serves the most the Ministry of Environment and Water and this is normal. I hope it's not really about money. The arguments that are related to the strong desire of the director, strongly supported by you, you may have better communication from GERB with him, but I very much hope that it is not really about money. Because it might be easier for you to serve some ministries, and at the same time to account for this service in several places. I don't know, it'll come out. But the reasons for moving are logical, they're structural, they're prioritizing, and it's not about anything you're talking about, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u239	Any lines to Mrs. Alexieva? Here's a line. Mr. Valchev, wait and I'll give you the second one. Mr. Nankov, you? You for a statement, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u240	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Alexieva! And you have nothing to wonder about, in the sense that the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology can be evident to various ministries. Today the government has decided to move quickly from one ministry to another. At first reading of the subject in the Water Act, it did not fall within this scope at all. We left a three-day deadline for proposals and suddenly very quickly yesterday, the Commission decided to fall within the scope of the second reading of the Law moving this institute. You have the right to, you decide, but the way this happens, it raises questions and challenges certain associations. There's one thing I can think of. Just now Minister Sandov said the following: that it is a very strange correlation in thinking, not to use the other word, and among the members of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are with the thinking of the GERB group. This means, colleagues, that there is some political element here and the idea is to change some leadership, the idea is to have a political punishment, the idea is to have political pressure, political changes. That's what the quadruple coalition decided. That's what they'll do. It's her right, but it's not the right approach to this case. Because it cannot, when you only have a three-day term, and within the first range of the Law, the way in which we have considered only changing river basin management plans and flood risks, we are currently looking at a subject of activity at second reading, which has nothing to do with what we have considered as first reading, but that is how it is managed. This is an example of how to manage and how to punish a political institute and how to change guides. You say you won't do it, but the time has come to show whether or not you will. I think you'll make changes, punish people, and all of this will be seen over time. Thank you. That's the reason. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine, for the line. Second line, Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u242	Unfortunately, what we have heard, we do have reason to fear that there is also a political punishment. Unfortunately, and the leadership of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology allowed itself to say that they have never been as good as the last three years. I hope this has not irritated the government, as it is forbidden to say that something good has happened in recent years. I never said there was no institutional logic to be with the Ministry of Environment and Water. I wanted to tell you what the background is and why this thing is being done because we're convinced that's the reason. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I never accused you of leading this penal action. You can convince us that as a possible future principal you will be well-intentioned and concerned, supporting the Institute if you do a few things. One is the Institute's autonomy, something you are now trying to limit for the second time, I repeat. The second, if you state that you will propose a Law on the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, because its regulation in the Water Act is not sufficient, it concerns only a small part of its functions. And the third, if you say that his wages will be raised as much as the other scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Then I myself will be convinced that this is not a penal action, because the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology will not be harmed by this transformation. Of course, fourth, if you don't afford purely political penal action because someone has inadvertently spoken in sync with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u243	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Is there a third line to Eugenia Alexieva? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Since the intention is so noble and this institute is mainly related to the activities of the Ministry of Environment and Water, why not make this proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Why is this proposal made after the expiry of all deadlines without analysis, as colleagues say? Why was it done after our colleagues from GERB-SDS supported all the proposals in the Water Act in the first vote, and in those three days this proposal did not come, but was made at the Commission's meeting without prior knowledge of the members of the Commission? Why, since it belongs in the Water Act, is it previously done in the State Budget Act? Why is the financial autonomy of this institute cut off in the proposal in the State Budget Act, which you have all accepted in the first vote? If your intention is really good and not being punished at the moment the Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology for leaving the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, then you must support our proposal in § 7, which we will do so that it can retain its financial autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. In accordance with procedure Georgi Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way it is. I beg you to inform me, I beg you, what are we discussing at the moment...................................................................................................................................................... Because in these three paragraphs, the words "meteorology and hydrology" are not mentioned. That is, anyone who speaks these two words does not speak on what we are discussing at the moment, and you should immediately take it away from him. I ask you very much to inform me what we are discussing at the moment................................................................................................... Because I've been listening to something else for 40 minutes and I don't know where I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u247	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Honest Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As well as supporting Mr. Ganev, we see that the debate has gone in a completely different direction. I would like to propose an end to the debate. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u249	Thomas Bikov, yes, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a reverse proposal and in relation to a clarification or question of Mr. Ganev.. The texts are intended to move this institute from one ministry to another. By the way, let me inform you, because you're obviously no longer interested in these things, there are protests. It's the first day there's no prognosis at all at this institute. Did you know there's a problem, or are you no longer interested in the protests? Because I know you're protesters. So far, we have three speeches. Now you're suggesting that we end this debate because it's very embarrassing for you. Look, you're gonna be laughing under the carpet here and this problem, like you're sweeping under the carpet all the rest of us, except the street's gonna be this problem, and it's not on the street, it's in an extremely authoritative institute. Scientists are protesting against you directly because you want to punish them. And you want to punish them, and you see it, but is it something with GERB? No, he's not with GERB. It's just that people understand that you want to punish them and it's normal to put up resistance. Whether we will support them with all our strength will support them! With all our strength, we will support them by all means. Not only them, absolutely everyone who protests against your incompetence will be supported by us with all our strength. [[(Replies from]] I suggest we continue the debate. If you'd like to speak up. You don't have a statement so far. What do BSPs think, continue Changing? We've heard what they think, Mr. Chorbanov. What do the others think? You don't need to speak clearly. Since you won't talk, they'll talk to you from somewhere else. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u251	We have a motion to vote, then I'll give you the floor for the procedures. We have a proposal that we need to vote on. We've also heard the opposite opinion. We are voting on the proposal of Iskren Mitev. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u253	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u255	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u256	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u257	Thank you. Vote in the House 168 MPs and online 3.. a total of 171: 118 and 2 online. 120 total, against 50 and 1 online.. 51 total, abstentions are not available. We're overreacting. Please, voting mode. Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u259	Rosen Turtle?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u261	Stefan Shilev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u262	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u263	Thank you. They voted in this House 133 MPs and 3 online.. 136 total: 118 and 2 online.. 120 total, 15 and 1 online.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The motion is accepted. For the procedure are Georgi Ganev, Hristo Gazhev. Mr. Ganev also for a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u265	I meant Tsoncho Ganev. First it's you, first it's Georgi Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for a procedure exactly the way my colleague Bikov took it to explain and calm down. We are not currently discussing the proposal to move the National Institute of Meteorology. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, we're not discussing this right now. We are discussing § 1, § 2 and § 3. The transfer proposal is in § 7. [[Applause from DB.]] In § 7 is.. you look at the Commission report, in § 7 it is. Correct me if I am wrong. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u267	Can we have quiet in the hall?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u268	Then I'm obviously looking at some wrong report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u269	Colleagues, can we have quiet in the hall for a second?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u270	I think we have in Paragraph 7 at least in the Report which is uploaded on the site is § 7. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u271	Mr. Ganev, just wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u272	Thank you, so I'm confused. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u273	Just a second. Now, § 1 and § 3, which are by importer, are for the plans that are clear. The newly created § 2, which replaces the words "the Minister of Education and Science" with the Minister of Environment and Waters ", concerns the following text: art. 151, para. 3 states the Minister of Environment and Water through the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency, etc. 5 is: "Is issuing a periodic bulletin on the state of the water resources of the Republic of Bulgaria, based on the data from the monitoring of the ecological and chemical state of water and the water quantity data provided by the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology to.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is by the newly born § 2. Did I clean up at least some of the procedures that would have been taken? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u274	Mr. Chairman, you've cleared some of the procedure, but do you see what the Committee on Ecology's incompetent work leads to? Even colleagues can't tell which report they're reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u275	Don't do this, Mr. Gadget, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u276	Because it was done yesterday for today, and on its feet during the sitting itself, and so it came to such confounding moments from the stands. Thank you for reading the text. By the way, I had opened it to show that this is where the changes to the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology begin. But the other question to you is, in fact, because there are registered MPs, as has been the practice so far, I hope that you will give the floor for these speeches, which have been previously claimed, so that we can at least follow this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u277	Yeah, I've got a name written down for you. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Really, here it is. When you raised your hand in the beginning, the three of you, Hristo Gazhev, Eugenia Alexieeva and Mladen Shishkov, and I asked you all three? You pointed two out to me. Really, I only recorded Hristo Gajev. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, for a statement. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, you're quite selective in recording.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u279	Sorry, one second. Colleagues, if you file written applications, there will be no such cases. Maybe by e-mail, of course. After the hearing, I'll take a look at them. [[Laughter]] Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take, in essence, the proposals from the Commission, the creation of a new § 2. What we are offered here and subsequently the other members on which I will also speak should say so from now on, so as not to make a mistake in determining those who are going to speak. What is it really about? It is said that the members who have proposed, by the way, in the budget in the State Budget Act for 2022 are currently teleporting into the Water Act. That's what it's really about. Why? Because a political decision was made, which was the right thing to do. Why it has come to this is another problem that we may need to discuss during the debates on the State Budget Act, all the paragraphs that are not related to the State Budget Act, to drop from it and from watching it at second reading. I leave aside the speculation that the Council of Ministers can almost withdraw them, because, as you know very well the Rules, only changes already adopted at first reading in a bill can withdraw only by voting in a hall, they cannot withdraw from an importer. They can be rejected or accepted. And we instead look at these texts in the State Budget Act as it is right "because there, by the way, if we are looking for the reasons, because the Rules say that all these proposals, although in my opinion unacceptable to look at, must be motivated. Where are the reasons for these proposals? They're gone. Even the esteemed Mr. Ivo Atanasov was listed as an importer. And I was present at the meeting when he said he wasn't an importer and it was wrong to be recorded, that is, even importers are not clear who they are. It's getting pretty funny now. But there's no motive. Why? Where's the motive? The reasons are in the State Budget Act here are only the texts, the reasons are in another bill. This is an insane legislative practice that is happening right now. Even funding these changes, where is it? In the State Budget Act. And we instead of following a proper legislative practice to watch next week the proposals at second reading and then the hall to assess whether the Institute should be transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Environment and Water, as the whole State Budget Act goes, we are looking here at a bill which has been submitted in a piece in another bill. They're being transported, they're just copied. If you see them, they're the same. They've just been transferred. Why? Well, in order for political promises to happen, there will be some hygiene of a legislative initiative by the Council of Ministers. Now the same hygiene is being violated by MPs so that the goal can still be achieved. It's outrageous what's happening. Okay, you've decided on the Ministry of Environment and Water. By this logic, as the proposals between first and second reading, without justification and so on a leg, are accepted, I can make a proposal in all the texts of the............................................. the internal affairs............................................................................................................................................................................................... It then means that you should allow it to vote, which, in my opinion, would not be right, but according to your logic, should be admissible. This is extremely wrong. Here I will take one last point to tell you that with my misinterpretation that it is possible to table proposals on foot during a Commission meeting, from now on you are opening the flood doors. Because, I am setting an example, the Budget Committee will shortly come up with proposals for the State Budget Act, the NHIF and the DEO, and this means that every single MP will be able to make hundreds more proposals during the meeting itself. That's what it means! So don't be mad at Mr. Karimanski after a while, when everyone starts making proposals during the Commission meeting itself, and he has to look at them and should allow them, and they should respectively enter the Report for a second read for next week. That's what you're doing right now, gentlemen and ladies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u281	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Is there a line on Mr. Gajev? Mr. Shishkov, can you pick up Mr. Gazhev's line? No. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There can't be a line when there's no statement. Five minutes we've been listening to thoughts on whether he's right or wrong, and you've been doing that for 20 minutes. Mr. President, my procedure is with you and I ask you to read on which basis, on which Rule of Procedure, after the Parliament has adopted a decision to end the debate, you give the floor. Perhaps I, as a longtime MP, have forgotten a member. Read the Rule of Rules on which you give reasons, after a decision of the National Assembly, to have some things happen in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u283	Thank you. Let's run out of lines and I'll respond to Mr. Svilensky. Tsoncho Ganev and Thomas Bikov afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u284	Mr. Chairman, a week ago you allowed us to vote and three times to pass a law, which is in sharp violation of even the Constitution. Yesterday, at the request of "Democratic Bulgaria" or as exactly their coalition is named, you accepted and allowed to terminate the proposals that we wanted to enter between the first and second reading of the law. The examples I can give are not only these two, but there are many others. In this regard, I think that this whole thing, which you are continuing as a policy of what you came to govern as a counterpoint of GERB, is not happening. On the contrary, you observe absolutely everything that they did for 12 years and trampled on all the rules and did not tolerate anything from the opposition. We're looking at exactly the same thing right now. I very much ask that this practice, which you have in your coalition, be terminated with the requirement to end the discussions. If you don't, and if you decide to do it anyway, let's make it more comfortable for Iskren Mitev. Here, let's give him a voting chair and every speech to come out and end the discussions. We are a parliament, and as long as there is someone who needs us to say what his opinion is and express the opinion of the people who have given him their trust, we have the right to talk and you are stopping us. Specifically about what was just announced and the discussion was stopped.... we did not speak. We waited for everything to pass and waited for us to speak. What should we say now? You've stopped, we have no right. We have no right! You've restricted us from saying what we think and what we want to say. This is GERB's old practice. You're not changing anything. Everything's the same. [[(Calling from?) We continue the Change.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u285	Just a second. Where did that come from? We'll check it out later. Toma Bikov is for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would rather take the form of a procedure in the manner of conduct I will try to help you because you are the first term in Parliament. What Mr. Svilensky says doesn't just surprise me, it stunned me, because he and I were in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Then we were ruling, and he was opposition, and here all the people I can't believe the things he's saying. Back then, it was a practice of what was happening. The discussion is stopped and everyone who is recorded in advance is speaking and I remember it very well. Now, whether to believe my eyes and ears or Mr. Svilensky's, this question has a clear answer for me. I believe what I've seen and what I've heard. The way in which this is being done at the moment and such statements are being made in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, and this is to Mr. Ganev. In this way, we have never brutally broken any rules. We have not voted three times, except for the first item of the budget for which the Constitutional Court has given its opinion. We've never chosen a man who doesn't meet the requirements without him meeting those requirements. And what Mr. Svilensky is doing says he's forgotten himself. That's the only word I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u287	Stop qualifying for each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u288	A man who's forgotten himself is easy to remember. Trust me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u289	Thank you. Just a second. This call from the back of the room was from Marin Shishev. I must make a note. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] Let's move on to the vote. [[Reply: "Procedure. "]] Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u290	Dear Mr. President, given what my colleague Gajev said to read the Rules once again and to find out whether the way the texts have been tabled is lawful and given the difficult discussion we have had so far, especially with our colleagues in the ruling majority and their strong arguments for the adoption of this law, I would like you to give half an hour's rest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u291	Fifteen minutes rest at the request of GERB-SDS, three minutes before the end of the meeting. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u292	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Yeah. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way it is, and it's for you. Keep in mind, Mr President, that the plenary session is broadcast online by not one media. In addition, microphones are particularly sensitive, Mr. Chairman. Something was very unpleasant before you gave a break, as you said. I therefore ask that, Mr. President, the Vice-President sitting next to you, of your choice, impose a remark. You know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u294	I don't know. I'll check it out myself, and if there's any real reason, I'll have to. May I? We are going to vote on § 1, 2 and 3 in accordance with the report of the Committee on Environment and Water. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u296	Rosen Turtle? And Stefan Shilev? They voted 135 MPs in the House plus 1 online, total of 136: for 122 in the Chamber plus 1 online " 123" against 10 in the House abstentioned 3. The motion is accepted. To explain the negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u297	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I voted against it not because, as my colleague expressed himself, it makes no sense to move the National Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology to the Ministry of Environment and Water. However, honourable Members, as we said yesterday, as we did today, when we were looking at item one of the agenda, dealing with politics and being a parliamentarians is a very responsible thing. An extremely responsible thing, especially when you are taking the important position of President and not only being a Member of the National Assembly, of course. This requires that you suppress your emotions, and when for years you have condemned the government from previous governments that they are not making proper steps in legislation, that in final regulations they are changing other laws, today we see exactly the same steps of this ruling majority. That is why we are talking about the insaneness of this policy going on, and I am astonished at my colleagues on the left of me how they criticize previous rulers who have done exactly the same things in the old days, namely management is now repeating them. That's why we say short memory at the station. Mr President, that is why I voted against, because normality in politics requires a clear and correct attitude towards the laws. This morning, on the right side of the Chamber, we heard that when a law must be examined, it must be public discussion, the institutions should give their attitude to the law itself. We didn't hear that thing today under this Water Act. This is the double archin, this is the replacement we're talking about, fellow Members. You're not suggesting anything new. That's not the new one. This is the replacement we're talking about, and we're going to keep talking about until you really get to rule honorably and in the interests of society and the state. This is my negative vote, and that is why I voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u298	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Last place. Dear Members of Parliament, I propose that a decision be adopted on the basis of art. 42, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 22 February 2022, Tuesday, at 11.00 on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importers Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 9 February 2022. 2. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. Importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 9 February 2022. 3. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the State Social Security for 2022. Importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 9 February 2022. Please, voting mode. Colleagues online: Alexandra Milcheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-17.u300	Rosen Turtle? Stefan Shilev? Vote 157 MPs in the House plus 1 online, total " 158": for 138 in the Chamber plus 1 online " 139" against 11 in the Chamber abstention 8. The motion is accepted. And before closing the meeting, I will read you the parliamentary control message for February 18, 2022, Friday, 9:00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev will answer three questions from the MPs Krasimir Valchev; Kostadin Kostadinov; and Hristo Gajev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova will answer a question from MP Georgi Svilenski. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Water Minister Borislav Sandov will answer three questions from the MPs Vladimir Marinov; Kostadin Kostadinov; and Zlatomira Mostrova. 4. The Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will answer seven questions from the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Ekaterina Zaharieva and Stefan Mirev; Desislava Atanasova; Branimir Balachev, Dani Kanazireva and Nikolina Angelkova; Nikolina Angelkova separately, Dani Kanazireva and Anna Alexandrova; Anna Alexandrova separately two questions; Kostadin Kostadinov; and one question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva. 5. The Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; Dzhevdet Chakarov stwo questions; Ivaylo Hristov; Yordanka Kostadinova; Asen Baltov. 6. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer four questions from the MPs Krasimir Valchev; Yavor Bojankov; Vyara Emilova; Boyko Klechkov. 7. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer four questions from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; Petar Petrov; Daniel Petrov; and Victoria Vassileva. 8. The Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will answer two questions from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov; Nikola Dimitrov. 9. The Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova; Ivaylo Hristov; Rositsa Kirova. 10. The Minister of Youth and Sports Radostin Vassilev will answer a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva. 11. Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov will answer a question from the National Representative Angel Georgiev and a question from the National Representative Branimir Balachev. 12. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer a question from the MP Alexandra Korcheva. 13. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer two questions from the MPs Mumun Mumun; and Denitsa Sacheva. 14. The Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev will answer three questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Ivan Totev and Stefan Shilev; Angel Georgiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the substation: Due to a business trip outside the country, the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov; - Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov. Due to a business trip outside the country, Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev postpones written answers to questions which expire during the period of secondment. The period of secondment is 14 February 2022. Due to a trip outside the country, the Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Policy and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov postpones written answers to questions and questions that expire during the period of business. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, there will be no participation: - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov; - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolai Subev. Due to urgent commitments on 18 February 2022, written answers to questions are postponed to Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Council for the absence of respectable reasons of the MP Stefan Shilev the answer to his question to the Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov is postponed. That's why I'm closing today's session. The next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held tomorrow at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
