ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. There are 205 registered MPs in the hall and two MPs taking part remotely in the meeting of Victor Nasser and Mladen Zapreyanov. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, first of all, please stand up for the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and for the anthem of the European Union. [[Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]] Thank you, colleagues. Secondly, the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 5 - 7 January 2022, namely for this week: "1." A draft decision on the release and election of the secretary of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Importer is the People's Representative Desislava Atanasova on 22 December 2021. 2. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers are Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. Point 3 of the initially proposed programme is the Project of a decision to adopt the Terms of Access to the National Assembly buildings in the context of an emergency epidemic situation. The representatives are Alexander Simidchiev and a group of MPs, but today the Conference of Presidents decided to drop the item from the Programme. Due to the need for corrections to the Project, it must first be examined by committees and then submitted to the Chamber. So the point is off. 3. Project of a decision to establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the anti-epidemic measures against COVID-19 introduced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The item is a continuation of the already launched discussion on 23 December 2021, which represents item three of the Programme and the last of the agenda for today. For Thursday there is only one point and it is: 4. "Rehearsal of the Minister of Interior on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning the received alerts at the Ministry of Interior, the checks and the results thereof related to the detection of violations in the opening of mobile polling stations for the elections for MPs held on 11 July 2021 and the elections for President and Vice President and MPs held on 14 November 2021. There are two points for Friday: It's five o'clock. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly............................................................................................... 6. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, having questions to eight members of the Council of Ministers on Friday. Apart from that, there are proposals for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules. The proposal is from the National Representative Zhecho Stankov. The proposal is to hold a hearing of the Minister of Energy on slowing down the construction of the gas interconnector Bulgaria On the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure are proposed to be included as a point in the Programme for this week. Mr. Stankov, perhaps you could also point out on what day, if it is accepted, perhaps for Thursday as the first point? [[Heckling]] Great. The proposal is to make this item first on the agenda for Thursday. A proposal has also been made by the MP Desislava Atanasova on the grounds of art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure for the inclusion in the weekly Programme of the Draft Decision on the introduction of a compensatory mechanism. The proposal does not meet the requirements of art. 47, para. 8, which is why it is unacceptable. Please, colleagues, first of all, we will vote on the proposed Programme by the President in order to comply with the drop of the point on the decision to adopt access conditions which was decided by the Conference of Presidents, and then we will vote on the proposal of Zhecho Stankov for inclusion in the Program of the Hearing of the Minister of Energy. Please vote on the Programme proposed by the President. Mr. Nasser, how do you vote on the proposed program?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u3	Mr. Zaprianov, you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u5	We have two votes online. Vote 216 MPs: 160, against 48, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Zhecho Stankov for a hearing of the Minister of Energy to be the first item on the agenda for Thursday. Mr. Nasser, how do you vote on the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u6	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u7	Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u9	Thank you. Vote 212 MPs: 203, against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The hearing of the Minister of Energy will be item one on the agenda for Thursday. Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before the holidays, we talked that it was good to get together and cut our vacations off, work a little bit more efficiently. Now I see that this week we will be doing analysis again, we will be analyzing the situation here again, because the ruling majority has tabled one point for changes in committees and possibly one hearing of the Interior Minister for the elections. I'll tell you: the election is over! You won, the Change won, and we're waiting to see something you can offer here. We offered you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u11	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u12	The procedure is the way it is, Mr. Ananiev. [[Heckling]] I'm calling you because you're crying from the second row. I'm telling you, you've offered nothing here. It's nothing! We offer to consider compensatory measures for business, and you reject this proposal, which is the only meaningful thing that is being proposed today. Anything else we can make changes to the committees. We have proposed to you the Secretary of the National Assembly to know that the people here are madly working, madly do not stand! We could have gone absolutely peacefully without this week. And that's your commitment, because you're the ruling majority, you have a whole government with a lot of ministers, one of the largest governments...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u14	...and any minister can offer some meaningful point. In all the crises that are developing in the country, you slept through it and did another two weeks of analysis. Let's stop analyzing, start working and make some decisions in this parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u15	Thank you. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I present to you the following references: 1. Reference to the authorities and members of the authorities whose term of office has expired, for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force: - the election of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army "9 members," including Chairman, Vice-President and Secretary; - the election of the President and Members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data; - selection of Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council; - the selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council; - the election of a Chair and a member for the sector of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission; - selection of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control; - choice of governor of the Bulgarian National Bank; - selection of a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Branch of the Bank of Bulgaria; - selection of a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bulgarian National Bank; - selection of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute; - election of a judge at the Constitutional Court; the selection of the Fiscal Council of five members, including the Chair. 2. Reference to members of the authorities whose term of office has been terminated early, for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force: - election of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council for the Prosecutor's College; - the selection of a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means and of a Vice-President by the members of the Bureau; - selection of a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. 3. Reference to the authorities and members of the bodies whose term of office expires during this session for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force: - election of a judge at the Constitutional Court; - a choice for the Court of Auditors - President, two Vice-Presidents and two Members; - selection of two members, of the Council for Electronic Media. 4. Report on non-constitutional bodies for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the current legislation: - election of Chairman and Members of the National Council for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ruschev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u16	Mr. Chairman, I would like to propose that today's session be broadcast on Channel 1 and the Bulgarian National Radio, given the importance of the Kovid topic, and I think that citizens want to witness what is happening here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MP Mr. Ruschev. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u18	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u19	Mr. Nasser?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u20	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u21	Thank you. Vote 215 MPs: 97 against 75 abstention 43. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u22	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u23	For a declaration Dessislava Atanasova, come on in on behalf of GERB-SDS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Christmas, Happy New Year! I wish you all health and strength to deal with the challenges we face. I wish the same to all Bulgarian citizens. Dear colleagues, we are at the beginning of the first full session of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Bulgaria is in a situation of price crisis, an ongoing political crisis, on the verge of an economic crisis and a new wave of health crisis. Applications for the cost of the new regular government are a symptom of a first step towards a financial crisis. Against the backdrop of these challenges, the first effort that the parties in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly must make is to create an opportunity to achieve national unity in relation to the main topics before the Bulgarian society. None of the parties in this Parliament have a mandate to make and impose sole decisions. Moreover, the forty-seventh National Assembly broadcasts a different majority, which is not united by common ideological and political logic, but is a result of the need to create a regular government. GERB-SDS Parliamentary Group recognizes its role as a monolithic opposition to this diverse majority. During this session of this Parliament, we will make every effort both to be a corrective to governance and to propose our experience, expertise and ideas for a faster recovery of the country from the difficult situation it is in. We are ready to have a dialogue with the majority as long as the parties that participate in it have realized that our voters are Bulgarian citizens and expect not only requests but actions. Bulgaria for the first time enters the new budget year without a budget and this is the most important task before parliament and the government during this session. The budgetary framework, which will be adopted, will also show the potential of the current government to deal with various crises, which are causing damage to the Bulgarian society every day. Unfortunately, we still have no clarity about the government's intentions. We are seeing symptoms of unconsciousness of the complexity of the situation we are in and urges for adventure, irresponsibility and inaction. The ministers are not ready with the estimates, it is not clear how much inflation will be, what the deficit will be, for the first time there is no increase in the minimum wage and pensions at the beginning of the year, and the requests for four bridges over the Danube and three tunnels under the Balkan Mountains, as well as a bunch of other infrastructure projects, sound ridiculous. The issue of the euro area and the Recovery Plan is completely absent from the agenda of the government. There is no dialogue and the care for the worst of the crises. Different crises won't solve themselves. At such times, political action is needed, which does not always bring dividends and applause to those who apply them. At the beginning of 2022 there are two roads before Bulgaria. The first one is to deepen the various crises in society; the second one is to build conditions for a common national effort to help overcome them. As an opposition, we are only prepared to participate in the second time, which enables the crisis to be overcome and prevents its deepening. In this role, we will not tolerate running away from responsibility, seeking superficial and chaotic solutions that do not solve, but deepen problems, as well as self-target attempts at confrontation and division of society. We will propose solutions to the various crises, but it is up to you, the majority, whether you will accept our ideas and whether you will take advantage of the opportunity to build national consensus on important issues. After three parliamentary elections within a year and after the broadcast of a regular government a month ago, we should be aware that the timelessness of the official and election governments is over. Today is the time for decisions, for carrying responsibility and for a stable perspective in front of our country. It is time for the current government to present its management programme, seek public agreement on it and try to implement it. Unfortunately, still part of the parties in the quadruple coalition and ministers broadcast by it do not realize their role as governors, but continue to act as if they were in an election campaign or are in opposition. This, honourable Members, is a prerequisite for a management failure because such behaviour speaks of political disorientation and hence the inability to make adequate decisions. I will therefore recall that you are neither in opposition nor are you in an election campaign. You are ruling and are responsible for everything that happens in the political, economic, social and cultural life of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the number of crises in the domestic political life of Bulgaria, Bulgaria is in a complex situation regarding the launch of negotiations by the Republic of Northern Macedonia for membership in the European Union. During the management of GERB a national consensus was established on this topic, which is still valid today. The political crisis weakened our country's position internationally and from now on we must make the necessary efforts together to protect the Bulgarian national interests in the region. This is a huge responsibility to the Bulgarian society, to the Bulgarian history and to the thousands of our ancestors who gave their lives for free and united Bulgaria. This responsibility obliges us to find not only the right solution but also to agree on it. We believe that all together, all Bulgarian citizens, we can find a better way to Bulgaria. I wish you all success in the new year and God save Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u25	Thank you. Mr. Karadaye for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy New Year! I wish everyone health, patience and wisdom. We expected to hear the priorities of the mandate carrier for this session, but we hope to hear at least the other participants in the majority and in the country's governance. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, our position is as follows: It has been one year, which we will remember with crises and elections, one year without an active National Assembly and government. Unlike the forty-fiveth and forty-sixth National Assembly, the forty-seventh National Assembly was able to broadcast a regular government. There is now a heavy responsibility, without delay, to start solving the crises. The voters did not give power to any party by which they obliged the parliamentary parties to seek maximum agreement on the ways to resolve the crises, in two words a re-establishment of the dialogue. As the start of both the forty-seventh National Assembly and the new government, we saw the opposite of dialogue. Nothing new under the sun. Thus began the management of GERB "self-sufficientness, self-confidence and self-activity," in the name of the same which is being proclaimed today. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The new tink tank political projects that appeared in the policy field at the expense of political parties have been introduced as an application for new messiahs with slogans, such as:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thus came GERB with the same slogans and messianism. When we talk about justice, morality and rule of law, let us first observe the Constitution and the laws of the country, including the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Bulgaria is in an unprecedented combination of crises. Inflation with every passing day is impoverishing people, and business is failing and more and more often talk about bankruptcy. The electorate has entrusted us with the heavy task of stabilizing the political process and starting to find the right solutions for exiting the crisis. The stabilization of the political process requires a conscious and practical separation of authorities, a restoration of parliamentaryism, democracy and statehood. Decisions to exit the crises suggest the efforts of the entire nation and the use of all resources and opportunities. Today, we regret that Bulgaria is fatally late with its recovery and sustainability plan, the operational programmes are not spoken at all, and the state budget for 2022 is postponed in time. We at the DPS have proposed that there should be no ruling and opposition on the measures to deal with the Kovid crisis. No idea about that yet, but the next wave's already knocking on the door. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria needs to restore dialogue, democracy and statehood, i.e. normality in politics. Bulgaria needs to do its homework as soon as possible under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, operational programmes, as well as on the state budget corresponding to them. Bulgarian citizens expect solutions from us that will have a positive impact on their income, standard of living and security. Bulgarian employers expect us to make the state and its institutions their partner. European and NATO partners expect us to be a predictable and loyal ally. The DPS will contribute to the realization of these expectations. We will contribute to the welfare of citizens, the restoration of democracy and statehood, as well as the protection of the rights and freedoms of every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Affidavit? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear compatriots! At the end of last year of this tribune, we read a declaration on behalf of the rebirth that was directed against the division in society. A division that began to pass even the year before last received its apogee with the Green Certificate introduced by the caretaker government, and discrimination that continues, and the division that is continuing now, at the moment. We at AGE have stated clearly and categorically our disagreement with a similar type of policy that copys the best part of the worst European practice. Usually only bad European practices are copied in Bulgaria, unfortunately. We all see where this discriminatory policy leads our so-called European partners to collisions, to a very serious division, to conflicts, to antagonism within society. At the moment, a large part of the Western European countries are literally being set on fire by civil protests. In a large part of the Western European countries, there is serious and increasingly massive civil disobedience. Next week on Wednesday, next Wednesday, there will be a protest that will come and will be attended by tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. They will be quite angry that the Bulgarian rulers do not want to hear the opinion of their master the Bulgarian people. We appeal to the common sense of the Bulgarian rulers, we appeal for political dialogue. We demand that the time remaining until next week a clear sign be given that the problems in Bulgaria will be solved by the political institutions and will not be created by them so that people do not have to go out on the street and seek their own right as supreme sovereign. We all swore here that we would serve the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, we would respect the Constitution and the laws, and in all our actions we would be guided by them. At the same time, with these anti-constitutional measures, we violate the basic law of the Constitution of the country. I think it is right and normal in a situation where the vast majority of the Bulgarian people have the desire to hear their opinion, not to pursue a policy that has been led decades back in time. Here I will not only give the bad example to GERB. We all know the protests that were led 2020 and 2021 against the governance of the previous government. I will also recall the protests that were against the management of BSP and DPS and Peevski's appointment as head of the SANS. I'll remind you of previous protests. They all happened when the Bulgarian rulers refused to listen to the voice of the Bulgarian people. We do not want any more of the Bulgarian citizens to be heard. Let the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian leaders our declaration is aimed at them to exercise common sense, to show political will, to give a clear sign that they are ready to talk and not to instigate panic and psychosis, because much of what is happening right now lies and will lie on their actions and on their consciences. We believe that Bulgaria is currently at a crossroads. We can be a first in our history, if you will, even our last, newest history, a good European example in this regard. There is no European government so far that has subjected its discriminatory, anti-human measures to broad public discussion. I won't! If we are now governed by a coalition in which the main political power is called the Change Continue, I believe that this is the moment when a clear signal can be given that there is such a change in society. Set a temporary moratorium on the implementation of all these measures! Stop the green certificate! Call civil society! Collect as wide an expertise and capacity as possible from people who support these measures and from people who oppose their application! Run an analysis! Let him not be one-sided, let him not be propagandist, let him be subject only to common sense! Because as of today, our children are forced to go to school, to do tests. The opportunity given a month and a half ago to do tests or to stay at home is no longer available. With Denkov's order at the moment, our children are being deprived of their obligation to go to school in the Constitution if they do not want to take tests?! What's the next limit? What will be the next requirements for them to allow them to go to school? What more ridiculous rules and what more ridiculous bans could be invented? That's not normal! And this crazy practice has to end! We very much hope that in the next few days the government will give such a clear sign because otherwise the conversation will not be held here next week! And there will be tens of thousands of angry people out there who will turn their anger on all of us, both to the government and to the ministers and to the MPs! And when people go out on the streets, it's hard to get them in. And in this case, the responsibility for everything that will happen, or could happen, will lie only on the shoulders of the ruling government at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u29	Are there any other declarations? I won't. Point 1 of the agenda: PROJECT FOR THE EXEMPTION AND SELECTION DECISION OF THE FOUR-TERRIED AND THE SEVENTH PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The project was submitted by Desislava Atanasova. I'd like the importer to present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the release and election of the Secretary of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Stefan Ivanov Shilev as secretary of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. 2. He chose Stefan Apostolov as secretary of the forty-seventh National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u31	I open discussions on the presented project. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the submitted draft decision. Mr. Nasser?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u32	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u33	Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u34	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u35	Vote 179 MPs: 173, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy has been deposited. Importers are Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. I'd like the importer to present the Project. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Dimitar Danailov Nedyalkov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I'm opening discussions on the proposed project. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the presented project. Mr. Nasser?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u38	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u39	Thank you. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u40	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u41	Vote 160 MPs: 154, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society has been deposited. Importers are Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u42	Thank you. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Dimitar Danailov Nedyalkov as Commissioner for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Please vote on the draft decision. Mr. Nasser?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u45	Thank you. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u47	Vote 148 MPs: 140, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the third item on the agenda of the day: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES ON THE TERRITORY OF THE BULGARIAN PROTAPEDEMIC MEASURES AGAINST COVID-19. The draft was presented in plenary on 23 December 2021 when the discussion on it was also launched. So far there have been three speeches by Anton Tonev, Andrei Chorbanov and Stoyan Taslakov. Also then were recorded for speeches Georgi Mihailov, Elena Guncheva and Dzhevdet Chakarov in this order. Professor Mihailov, you have the floor if you keep your interest in speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me, on my behalf and on behalf of our entire parliamentary group, personally congratulate you and all the Members of this House with the new year, wish you success in the interests of the nation and in our highly responsible activity! Our parliamentary group has listened very carefully to the arguments of its colleagues. Many of the issues they are asking are really interesting, deserve attention and are entirely in the prerogatives of the work of the Health Commission. It is called upon to deal with the problems associated with this serious pandemic phenomenon COVID-19 and we believe that in the coming weeks and months it will do its job. We believe that it is not necessary, it is not appropriate to break up Parliament's activities of even more than the 24 committees, which are strictly defined and have directions that are directly affecting the individual spheres of activity in society. So we see no point in setting up this committee, and we will not support the establishment of this committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines to Mr. Mihailov? I won't. For speech is recorded Elena Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will begin my speech from where the discussion ended last time. Dear Dr. Tonev, you told a lie. You pointed out that we at the age say there is no virus. That doesn't answer the truth. We believe there's a virus like that. We even believe in the conspiracy theory that there is not only one virus, but there are thousands of them. Also eccentricly, we believe that apart from COVID-19, there are other diseases. [[Replication by the National Representative Assen Baltov: "COVID-19 "]] which cause far greater mortality in Bulgaria than the CIVID-19. Since you shared your personal drama with your disease from the virus, I will point out that many of us have also made it out................we are all alive and well. Unfortunately, there are people who couldn't survive this virus. But the question is here about the measures being taken and which are obviously inadequate. Bulgarian citizens have no information about what is happening. That is why all the measures taken, as well as calls for vaccination of those who want, remain without response in society. Bulgarian citizens doubt what the government does, as well as governments before that. They don't have the information what's going on. They have no information which measures are in place. As we can see, the measures are chaotic, illogical and contrary to common sense. That is precisely why there are such doubts in our society in every action taken by the government. If this temporary committee is approved, it will find answers to these questions that we have asked. I do not agree with my colleague before me that the Health Committee can do this job. The volume of these questions, as well as the study, are large enough, serious enough to require the establishment of this temporary committee. When Bulgarian citizens have an answer to these questions, they will decide on their own how to comply with the measures, how to protect themselves, how to preserve their lives and the lives of their loved ones. At the moment, the whole society is against these measures precisely because of the lack of information.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u51	What is this whole society?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u52	And I'm going to add something else to science is not a religion. You want us to believe in science without asking questions. It's only required in religion, not in science. Science wants evidence and arguments that you don't represent. You can't just ask people to believe what they're told without giving them evidence. That is precisely why I am calling you on this committee to benefit the entire health crisis, as well as the introduction of adequate and meaningful measures. Because if this is not done, the division in society will continue and these measures will no longer be followed and will become increasingly illogical because there is no basic information about what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Are there lines? I won't. Jevdet Chakarov is now listed for a statement, but I don't see him. Here you are, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's go back to the point we are looking at from the agenda, and it is: "Project of a decision to establish a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances regarding the anti-epidemic measures introduced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria against the CIVID-19 "; that is, the idea is here to discuss the possibility of setting up a Temporary Commission to examine these circumstances. Now, if you ask me personally, I would recommend to my colleagues that they get acquainted with the Anti-epidemic Measures Act or the Anti-epidemic Situation Act. This law was adopted here in the Bulgarian National Assembly in one of its previous formats. By this law, according to one member of the Health Act, the National Assembly delegates rights to the Minister of Health to sign all these specific measures, and if you, colleagues of the Revival, want to change or analyse, or to cancel some of the measures, or any measures, you have the right under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to submit a bill, to amend this law on the emergency epidemic situation and under this law to revoke the Minister of Health's right to issue these orders. What does everything else mean? To analyse one measure or another, to propose one measure or another, or to reject all measures that have been adopted. I would like to draw attention to the MPs of a member of the Health Act, because health is not the only and only responsibility for its own health. Article 94 of the Health Act says that: "Every Bulgarian citizen is obliged to take care of his own health. " However, there is one second paragraph, which is very important, which transfers responsibility to public health. See what she says: "Do not harm the health of other Bulgarian citizens. " Do you think, honourable Members, if some of the measures proposed now by the Minister of Health are repealed, there is no potential for damage to the health of all other Bulgarian citizens? I agree that everyone has the right to subjective assessment of objective reality, as there once was such a cliché. But it's a subjective assessment of each and every one of us. It has no way of dealing with what science has achieved, and what science has achieved is now called objective judgment. Therefore, honourable Members, I see no point in setting up this committee. This committee may propose legislative solutions, may propose dropping out or new measures, or anything else. So what? So what if every MP is entitled to a legislative initiative? The legislative initiative, the decisions of the National Assembly are the ones that can solve, including the problems that you are talking about. Otherwise, setting up a committee means putting off one measure or another and analyzing them, by the way, the analysis has become something very interesting in this Parliament. We do analysis for everything. What's this committee gonna do? He will invite the Minister of Health, well, the Minister of Health has parliamentary control, has blitzcontrol. What else is this committee going to do? Personally, I don't get it. Therefore, honourable Members, it is not the most important thing to have a committee or not. The more important thing I think is how do you manage this crisis? Is our crisis in control now, or are we actively managing the crisis? That's the most important thing. We found out that yesterday or the other day this pandemic committee was set up, he was headed by the Deputy Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the epidemic we are talking about that has rocked the world, you see that we are talking about a million infected in the United States in one day. I don't want to scare anyone, I have no such intentions, but the crisis must be managed not only by one ministry. To be alive and healthy epidemiologists, virologists, immunologists and there are all sorts of scientists, but they cannot, within a ministry, solve this issue. It's a multidisciplinary problem. Mandatory, if he has an idea to set up such a committee, he must be headed at least by a deputy prime minister so that he can... Tell me now: my esteemed Deputy Minister, Associate Professor Mihailov, how will he coordinate the activities of the Ministry of Education, the Minister of Tourism? How is this communication going to work? I don't get it. So the more important question is not what will this committee do, the more important question is how is the crisis managed in Bulgaria at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u56	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u57	Please come in for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u58	Dear Mr. Chakarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u59	Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u60	Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u61	Mr. Ademov, I apologize. It's okay before we approve laws here, to learn the current ones. There is no law on anti-epidemic measures in legal peace! Perhaps you meant some other law. Perhaps you could clarify what this is about. I will only clarify another: we have introduced a bill of amendments to the Health Act in this particular sense, which I recommend you to get acquainted with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u62	Thank you. Any other lines to Mr. Ademov? I won't. A hole? There's no need for a douche. Any other speeches? Tosko Yordanov, first, to diversify a little, then, Kostadin Kostadinov. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do my best to do your bidding to diversify a little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u64	No, I mean from different parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u65	Yeah, I mean the same thing, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u66	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u67	Dear colleagues, to us, that is to say, I have a third parliament - two short and one, hopefully, a little longer, and I have seen a selective attitude towards the committees. When it's a topic you don't like, you're against having committees. When it's a topic you like, you're scary freedom fighters and information about how people should be informed and that's why there should be committees. I can give an example.. Democratic Bulgaria....................Democratic Bulgaria.... didn't want to have a commission on..Buzaka, DPS didn't want to have a committee on..................... Kovid is a topic and the measures that are imposed excite every Bulgarian citizen. And you're fully aware of that. And pretending here to be pinched girls that there shouldn't be a committee because there was a I don't know what you're doing. Why are you doing this? Isn't the idea to inform, provide complete information and ask questions? What's your problem with committees in general? He's gonna load you up, he's gonna load up your life, or he's gonna come up with information that doesn't get you out of it? Let's stop being hypocrites and when there's a theme that's important to society, let's not pretend, let's tell the pinched ladies and close our eyes and approach her responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u68	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Yordanov? I won't. Please come in for a statement. You've got about a minute. We'll extend the time afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, many questions can be asked in this committee. I can only set an example for one of them. Hundreds of thousands of tests were conducted in Bulgarian schools over a month and a half, for which millions of levs were spent, which found a little over 600 positive cases, of which a little over half of which about 300, say, or 350 were confirmed afterwards laboratory. Here is a question that we will ask and which I think we need to find an answer to. Who made the decision? Who will bear the responsibility for the absolutely pointless millions of levs spent? And most importantly: why is this practice currently tightening? Is that harmful or useful? The measures have been in operation for nearly two years now. And that is precisely why we believe that if we do not want to continue the deepening of the crisis for which the measures are cooperating, and do not hinder, one such committee should be set up. There are too many questions, and the answers count on the fingers of one hand. There is no clarity, there is no transparency and we believe that this is something that, after all, is our work as legislative power. Yes, we have proposed changes to the Health Act, but until they are adopted, time will pass, and during that time what is happening will continue to happen. We want to get answers.. that is the purpose of this committee. And that is precisely why we believe that it should be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u70	Thank you. - What's the line? There's no desire. Any other speeches? Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u71	Interesting things happen in this parliament. It is very interesting to observe people who claim to be Democrats, and indeed they are extreme liberals and do not want to hear the opinion of people. On the other hand, to hear these same people being opposition and having nothing to do with the DPS, but to actually overlap at 99.9% with all that the DPS confesses, and to get here at the moment when you have to make a commission in which to say such are the facts, to really come out specialists who are dealing with the topics and to talk. No abdominal surgeons, to come out epidemiologists and to say: this and this, to hear the other opinion, to hear the opinion of people what they think and when they are affected by these measures, to hear what the realities are, because in Western and Central Europe there are times more severe measures and times more immune. And right now, there's a colossal peak and it's already being said whether it actually works even there. You refuse to hear the expert's opinion because they go out, with all due respect, abdominal surgeons, explain and talk about epidemics. There are other people here who explain that they were in the 19th circle of hell and think that they were the only ones who had a hard time with the virus. Well, there's a lot of us. We've all been through it in a lot of those in this room, but that's not the point. The theme is to hear the experts' opinion, to hear the opinion what results there are, to hear why there is an investigation against the former health minister Mr. Katsarov, because these tests prove that perhaps in the companies that have won to deliver them, there was corruption, to raise these issues, let's say. You, Professor, can you tell me why we have such a low percentage of 10,000 percent of children who are sick, and we keep pouring millions? Why are we banning children from going to school right now, and what is the result? Let's comment on England. The children there have no restrictions... neither masks, nor tests, nor anything else...... is required. [[Reply from MP Kiril Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, please! Put on your eye mask and move on. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u72	Any lines to Mr. Ganev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the discussion. The text of the Draft Decision lacks point This point must be added, but I will allow myself to make this proposal, as you do not have time to speak. I suggest this be a new t. 5 containing: It's five o'clock. Chooses as Commissioners the multi-point. The existing t. 5, 6 and 7 are renumbered to 6, 7 and 8. Thank you. I'm calling off the discussion on the proposed project. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the editorial proposal I made for a new item. 5 with the text:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u73	Mr. Nasser?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u75	Thank you. Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u76	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u77	Thank you. They voted 146 MPs: for 89, against 16, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the main text proposed by the MP Elena Guncheva and a group of MPs in line with the editorial amendment already voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u78	Mr. Nasser?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u79	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u80	Mr. Zaprianov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u81	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-05.u82	Thank you. They voted 147 MPs: 51, against 66, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. With this, the agenda for today, January 5, 2022, is exhausted. The next meeting will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 6 January 2022. The agenda includes a hearing of the Minister of Energy Aleksandar Nikolov, after which the second point is a hearing of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov. Thank you. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
