ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. Today online is only: Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u3	Thank you. 173 MPs are registered in the hall and 1 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Please come in for a procedure. Before that, I use the moment to celebrate the celebration of all the ladies! Be always smiling and radiant and very loved! [[Applause.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u4	Mr. Chairman, I propose that today's meeting be broadcast directly on BNT 1 and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u5	A reverse opinion? Radomir Cholakov? [[Reply of MP Radomir Cholakov.]] I get it, yeah. Thank you. Mr. Cholakov, since it is parliamentary control, it is broadcast on BNT 2, so the only suggestion of Mr. Petrov is to raise the level of BNT 1, so to speak. I put to the vote the proposal that the entire meeting of today be transmitted on BNT 1 and BNR. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u6	I'm holding back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u7	Thank you. Vote 179 MPs plus one 1 online.. total 180: for 74, against 35, abstention 70 in the House plus 1 online.. total 71. The offer is not accepted. Program for the work of the National Assembly on 8 March 2022 The duration shall be as follows from 9.00 to 14.00: "1." Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, blitzcontrol. 2. Parliamentary control under art. 91. " 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly." First of all, I will read you the following messages: In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 63, p. 1 of the same law The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria has adopted the following decisions: - Decision No 99 of 2022 amending Decision No 484 of 2012 on the participation of a contingent of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union military operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Decision No 108 of 2022 authorising the participation of a formation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in a composition of soldiers with the necessary military and auxiliary equipment in an operation to enhance NATO defence potential to protect the territorial integrity of the member states of the Alliance. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Decisions of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was also notified. The decisions are published on the website of the Council of Ministers. The notifications made by the decisions attached to them were received on 2 March 2022, with an indication of the date of entry into force of this Decision. No 47-202-00-10 and 11, and made available to the Defence Committee. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of aircraft with their air force crews of the Republic of India. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly into the country's airspace should be granted to the countries concerned after a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 4 March 2022, i.e. No 47-203-09-19, and granted to the Defence Committee. An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2022 has been received by the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly. No 47-24-00-5 by the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 January 2022. "20 February 2022 and Protocol No 7 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 February 2022, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to point one: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Here you go, Mr. Ganev. [[Declared by MP Tsoncho Ganev and Chairman Nikola Minchev in front of the stand.]] Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Before we begin, I would like to inform you that we have received a notification from Prime Minister Cyril Petkov that for urgent reasons related to an urgent conference call organised by the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Lyon today, on 8 March 2022 at 10.30, together with other European leaders and on the grounds of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the MNS, which informs us that he will be able to attend parliamentary control only within the time interval from 9:00 to 10.20. It was also notified by the Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev that due to urgent commitments he asked not to be included in the blitzcontrol under art. 104 and in the regular parliamentary control under art. 91 "Sponsor 103" for today. [[Reply of National Representative Toma Bikov.]] You can't during a blitz-control declaration. Under art. 104 is true, Mr. Bikov. For a procedure, Mrs. Angelkova? Just a second! In view of the Prime Minister's notification, I would ask that we first run out of questions to him so that no questions remain left to the Prime Minister, and then we will move on to the questions to the members of the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova. I am aware of your case, today I will speak with the Minister of Transport. [[Reply of MP Nikolina Angelkova.]] Tell yourself, okay. [[(Reply of the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! I once again take a procedure with regard to the questions we ask in parliamentary control, and I note that the Minister of Transport Nikolay Subev has not answered four of my questions on 14 February. The 7-day deadline has long expired, and he is obliged to answer within this deadline unless there are objective reasons for which I have not been informed. I see that the questions submitted by Mr. Mirchev after mine have been answered; I see that my colleague Balachev has not been answered either. Is this some boycott not answering the opposition, or is it selective to answer only questions that are asked and are in the interest of the Minister of Transport Nikolay Subev? I really do not understand, but I think it is important that the questions that I have asked and are related to the flight carried out on the Skopje line Sofia, Mr. Prime Minister, you so very seriously advertised the implementation of this flight as one of the key issues within the framework of your policy, which you lead with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, and I think it is important for the Bulgarian citizens to know how much this cost the state, what will be the frequency of these flights? Has the travel flow been calculated?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u10	Accordingly, will the flights also be subsidized to distant destinations, as Minister Sabev said in his interviews. I think that it is important to know the Bulgarian citizens as well as the policy regarding the construction of tunnels and bridges, as the minister himself said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova, as I said, I will talk to the Minister of Transport Nikolai Subev. I'm aware of your case. I don't think it's an attitude towards the opposition. You said yourself that Mr. Balachev's questions were answered, he is also from the opposition. [[Radio.]] Will there be a question for the Prime Minister? No, there won't be a question. Lyuben Dilov has a question on behalf of GERB-SDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, to celebrate the celebration of the better part of Bulgarian humanity! I am convinced that if the world were ruled by women, there would be no wars, but only more nervous negotiations every 28 days. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to you, Prime Minister! There are two folk proverbs that caused a lot of grief to the Bulgarians. One is that the bowed head is not a sharp sword, and the other is that no one is taller than the bread. I still want to ask you about the second one. In recent days there have been great concerns about wholesale prices, or rather about government policy, which you have personally claimed in several media appearances, with the intention of purchasing a large amount of.................................in some places........is mentioned 1.5 million. tons of wheat. It's not clear at what prices, are you going to buy through the stock exchange? At the same time, the grain producers claim that their normal trading activity through the exchanges is silently stopped, evidently with regard to the government's intention to provide some reserve. I ask you very much to make clear the subject in order to bring peace to the grain producers and consumers who are ultimately the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. I remind you that questions cannot contain requests for detailed numerical data, so none can be expected. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! And I want to congratulate: Happy March 8th to all the ladies in the hall! Now the answer to your question. Yes, Bulgaria's production is a high priority of the Bulgarian government. As we have all seen, there has been a danger of several incidents in Ukraine, including the burning of a building in their nuclear power plant. We decided then that it was very important to, it was an administrative building, there was no risk of radiation, but we decided then that we could not take a risk in relation to the amount of grain Bulgaria has. What would happen if we had such an accident and lost a potential harvest? We all know in the distant past Chernobyl, the stories we do not want to enter at all at this risk, so we decided that we will buy enough quantity for Bulgaria to have until the next harvest 2023. This means that Bulgaria will have a reserve of about 1.5 million. the tone so that we can be ready in any situation to ensure the country's livelihood. From this point of view Bulgaria, the Bulgarian government is buying this week and will obtain these quantities to ensure that these quantities are available. Yes, we buy it at market prices and it will be stored in the warehouses of the State Reserve. So we do things absolutely in the most transparent way to make sure that the Bulgarian population is secured by grain. What you have said that there has been a difficulty with exports and so on, I can assure you that yesterday ships left the Bulgarian port as part of the open market and the grain trade, but I can also guarantee the Bulgarian citizens that no matter what, the Bulgarian bread will be provided by 2023. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Dilov, would you like a line? No. Okay, here's the line, no problem. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Prime Minister, it did not become clear at what price the state will buy the grain from the Bulgarian grain producers and what do you mean by the market price. [[Voices by "Keep On Changing": "Eee!"]] And one more thing, Prime Minister. You mentioned that there was no problem with loading the ships. They are loading and leaving the country. I do not know if you have information, but yesterday the Customs Agency gave permission to load the ships and two hours after that these ships were stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Prime Minister, will you answer? Here you go. With regard to the price, I remind you that detailed numerical data are not subject to consideration in the blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u18	Thank you. Market price is the price of the market at this time, so... [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]] What you are saying, the Customs Agency is doing its standard checks, there is nothing extraordinary, and if all checks go according to proper order, everything is fine, the ships leave. If there are any problems, an analysis of the wheat... [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Yeah, it's done, absolutely can be done, quality, conditions, so we haven't gone beyond the legal framework and beyond the legal deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. On the DPS side, do you have any questions for Mr. Prime Minister? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I would like to celebrate the celebration of all Bulgarian women, of course, the women in the world and the colleagues in the Chamber, and the Deputy Prime Ministers too. I wish you to be healthy, very loved and very loved, because the most a human being can do is love! [[Applause from DPS.]] Dear Prime Minister, let's continue our dialogue with you. You owe me an apology, for the record, for the previous argument, because I was right. What I've said, you've heard it wrong, and I've shown you the transcript, but let's not turn control into mutual apologies now. I take it you may not have heard well, but you have seen in the record that it is as I have said. Now about this control that I'm talking about right now, I asked you about the signals you made to the Attorney General, which are 19 in your opinion, and you served for the 20th. I asked you to give me a signal for the 21st, and then you answered me like this: I want to ask you if you have clear signals about any person, including Ivo Prokopiev, I would be happy to have them delivered to me and I really tell you that from now on they are all under the same archin. Bulgaria is a country in which we will follow the legislation and we will all be under the same archin...................................... and we will all be under the same archin..................................... And now for one archin I keep my promise and our parliamentary group there are the signals we have collected from the anti-corruption search engine Google [[Laughter]] , and they concern the face Ivo Prokopiev, who, as everyone knows, is a media monopoly, oligarch, energy oligarch. This topic will be discussed further, although there are such data in the signal. I would like to present them to you on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and ask you to fulfill your promise, i.e. under an arsin to do whatever is necessary, the authorities that are investigating and under your control and, accordingly, the prosecution to refer to it. My question is related to this and the other signals, and in general to the government's anti-corruption policy with zero tolerance for corruption. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u21	If you give me 30 seconds, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u22	I'm giving you one. Come in, let's hear the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u23	So by applying the government's anti-corruption policy, will you take into account the legislative initiatives of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" that support this policy, for one of which you promised us that the majority group would support, and this was for the Golden Passports, for the full revision of each of these cases? We have tabled a proposal for a second reading, although our bill was not adopted at first reading, despite your promise, because yesterday the European Commission submitted a report on these passports, we have it and there is indeed a demand for such revision, apart from all the other numerous initiatives. We have other such legislative initiatives. So my question is, will you lean on everyone and will you keep your promise regarding this signal, about other signals and about checking the gold passports, including residence, because yesterday the European Commission's report also talks about residence, not only about citizenship, as we suggested? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u25	Thanks for the signal. There will be no signal that will be ignored in any way by the Bulgarian government. The only thing I wonder about is why this signal doesn't go directly to the D.A.'s office? We will take it, we will hand it over, no problem, but in my opinion, if you do not trust the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, we have a common problem here, which we need to solve, which is more than individual signals. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "INN" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] For the gold passports, I am sure that the ruling coalition has tabled a bill on the subject, so this problem must be solved. I, too, have made a promise that this kind of scheme will be terminated and Bulgaria will no longer be associated with such gold passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u27	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! We're signaling you for two reasons. First, there is confidence in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office in all institutions, including the Council of Ministers, and in the Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the face Ivo Prokopiev, we do not trust the prosecution because we suspect that there is a stretched umbrella over it for years, including the last 2 years. His acquittal at second instance was not protested by the prosecution at next instance, which is not a practice of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. She must answer and then I asked you... will you ask the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office why she has not protested the acquittal? There are all the reasons for this, and if new circumstances are to be given to it, new circumstances may also be given. And there's a lot of data back in time when we suspect the D.A. was putting an umbrella over that face. That's the first reason. The second reason we are sending the signal through you is that the institutions that investigate the data are still under your control and it is good for you to exercise it, and I am convinced that you will do so to exert more serious pressure and control, and as we have heard, you have said that you are waiting for arrests and so on. It would really be under much stricter control to examine these data. What we are transmitting to you is public information as you said was public information about what you gave to the 19 people who have public information that there may be data on corruption. We act in the same way as we did then. I want to assure you that we approach you with confidence and we are convinced that you will move these procedures properly, because otherwise it is not zero tolerance, but it will become something less, something to say that excludes certain individuals. I'm sure it won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u28	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u29	Yes, thank you. The definition of a working prosecutor for me is to have no one that this prosecutor can't investigate. If there's even one person who has an umbrella, like you just said, it means we don't have a working prosecutor. So I am glad that you also come to the opinion that there is no working prosecutor under the leadership of this Prosecutor General in Bulgaria. Because we can't trust the institutions and have an umbrella on someone at the same time. So I'm gonna take these signals, but what I'm happy about is that we're obviously starting to unite into a larger group that this Attorney General has to go. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there a question for the Prime Minister on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? There's no premiere, okay. There is such a people and there is a question to the Prime Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Happy holiday of all gentle creatures in Bulgaria and around the world! Mr. Prime Minister, my question is to you: in view of the extremely difficult situation in Ukraine and Russia's attitude towards Bulgaria, are there any disruptions in the supply of gas and oil to Bulgaria and what measures have you taken and have different scenarios been considered from where Bulgaria could receive alternative supplies in case Russia decides to stop supply to Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u33	Thanks for asking. This is a very important issue and the Minister of Energy is working daily to make sure that we have different alternatives. The first thing I want to say is that we have had many meetings with the company Lukoil, including yesterday, to make sure that they have an alternative supply of crude oil, which is not Russian. At the same time, they ensure that they have a plan so far, if Russian oil is stopped, but until now the tankers are unloading, there are no broken deliveries, so in fact things seem to be under control so far and we are in daily communication to continue this. In connection with the gas, the Minister of Energy negotiated various quantities through Greece. We have a plan "B" and, if necessary, we monitor the possibility of limiting and derogating electricity exports in extreme situations, so I want to assure the Bulgarian citizens that there is no risk for oil supplies and we should not cause panics. Although Lukoil is a Russian company, the shareholders are largely from the Russian Federation, it is owned by a Swiss company itself, so it does not come under direct sanctions, and at the same time they are ready to buy and process non-Russian oil, so thank you for the question, this is an important issue. Let everyone calm down that there are no broken deliveries at the moment and the risk is not great, as everyone has tried to say on social networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u34	Thank you. Would you like a line? No. Mr. Dimitrov, you too to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u35	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! There has been serious tension with prices on the fuel market, that is, we are interested, of course, first of all, in guaranteeing supplies, but second of all, in terms of prices. And Prime Minister, many people asked the question: given that the Russian type of oil is trading at a serious discount, what is the reason for the increase in prices in Bulgaria? There's no economic reason. Yes, we cannot influence international factors, but we must control the Bulgarian ones, and you, Mr. Prime Minister, correctly asked the KPC to check what was happening. And you know, over the years, I don't know how many times, maybe a dozen times they start some checks, but I haven't seen them complete that check to the end. I will now tell you our analysis of the Democratic Bulgaria, which we have done these days in the last three years. When the price of oil rises, fuel prices with a coefficient of 0.96 of correlation increase also. Note, however, when the price of oil falls, fuel prices fall much slower with lag in time, which means that there is room for a stronger regulator of the fuel market in Bulgaria, there is room for solving the competition problems that we have inside the country. Because fuel prices, honourable Members, will be one of the major issues that concern the growth prospects of different countries because of the high fuel prices, so it is time for us at Bulgaria level to do what we can. Tomorrow we'll be listening to the Economic Commission's CDC, but that seems insufficient. It is important that measures are taken at government level and the following analysis is done: how can we improve competition? If the problem is the import of fuel, remove these problems. Yeah, the State Oil Company needs to be shut down in the sense that state gas stations shouldn't. In Bulgaria, there are the most gas stations per capita in the European Union - that is not the problem. However, if the problem, Mr. Prime Minister, is access to tax-related warehouses, as we have claimed many times over the years that such a problem is identified, it can use free capacities in the state reserve for more competition. [[the President signals that time has run out]] That is, it is important now, admitting that we cannot influence international factors, solve our internal problems so that they do not cause additional fuel appreciation, so here you have an important role. [[the President signals that time has run out]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u36	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u37	You're absolutely right. In fact, the oil delivered to Lukoil (Lukoil) 60% is from Ural (Ural). Yesterday, we had a conversation with Lukoil to discuss the possibility of these fluctuations in wholesale prices being a function of the mix from which they buy. Their answer to this point is that the price was formed by their Swiss company Litasko. We have also asked today to inform us how "Litasco" is priced in order to find a way to have a smoother rise on the basis of world markets. Also you're right there's a period of seven days between what's being processed and what's being sold. We also encouraged Lukoil to be able, at least, to use these short periods and not their wholesale price to flutter completely with the market at this time, and not the Ural oil, so they said they were ready to discuss this fact in today. We cannot do anything against the global markets, but we will try to use this mix between the Urals and the non-Urals, so that we can at least have these increases to be smoother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Would you like a line, Mr. Dimitrov? No. Is there a question on behalf of the Prime Minister? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u39	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! I was going to ask about the presence of Bulgarian weapons and Bulgarian ammunition in Ukraine to tell me what you know about the issue, but including yesterday we received information about the export of bulletproof vests and helmets on 2 March 20 tonnes, from Kostinbrod, which are already in Lvov, in Western Ukraine. After all, there's no point in asking about things that are obvious, they're already on the Internet, they're everywhere, they're visible. Whether you're gonna answer something or not, it doesn't really matter. The truth is obvious. Bulgaria is exporting weapons.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u40	Is that a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u41	From there on out, the question I want to ask is this, and it is very simple. Last week I was in Ukraine and on March 4th I had a conversation with the Mayor of Bolgrad and the Chairman of the Regional Council of the Bolgrad Municipality. It turns out that no one there knows that in Bulgaria there is a decision to provide humanitarian aid to the Bulgarians, they were quite surprised. What we talked about back then was to send a letter saying exactly what they want, because the shops in the area are empty, the pharmacies are empty, the chaos is full, the anarchy is still p. This letter was sent on the 4th, sent by e-mail on the 4th, probably this week will arrive by mail somehow, and the point is that since yesterday there is an incoming number. It has been sent to the President of the National Assembly, to you personally and to the Presidents of all parliamentary groups and already people are aware, I am sure of that. My question to you is: since we have made the decision here absolutely unanimously, there was no one who was against or abstention about giving humanitarian aid to our countrymen in Ukraine, I stress fat, why has nothing yet been done in this direction? Are you going to do anything at all? The letter is already with you, and not only with you, of course, for information and to each of the parliamentary groups. How and in what way will you ensure that this assistance is delivered to the Bulgarians in Ukraine, because there is a great risk that this help will fall into other hands, because there is indeed a great deal of chaos there? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When and in what way do you intend to organise these conversations directly with our community there, not through the Ukrainian state, which is currently in an extremely difficult situation, but directly with our compatriots there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u42	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u43	Providing assistance to Ukrainian citizens, including those from the Bulgarian minority, is a priority for the Bulgarian state. As you already know, eight trucks have left for Ukraine and this is already a fact. At the same time, the Council of Ministers of the last Council of Ministers decided to grant the state supply of medicines and other humanitarian aid worth 1.4 million, so this decision was also taken. The Minister of Transport coordinates the transport itself. If you have any additional data on these people's specific needs, we would be happy to know, but really humanitarian aid is a huge priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u44	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, I have a feeling that you and I are speaking in different languages. I was talking about the Bulgarians in Ukraine, you're talking about sending eight trucks... And we have sent, traveling now, but for the Bulgarians in Ukraine. You say, "If I have data. " Here, look at the letter. [[Shows.]] On top it says: "To the President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria Cyril Petkov, here is the list of foods, apart from this there is a list of medicines. Look. [[Shows.]] These are two detailed pages with a list of medicines missing in Bolgrad. It is natural that we must also help people who are in need, because ultimately Ukraine is close to us country, only first of all we must be in this particular case national selfish and think about our compatriots there. My question was about the Bulgarians in Bolgrad, Bolgrad region, in Arciz, in Tatarbunar, all over Bessarabia, Odessa District, for them was the question. Here's your letter, read it to yourself. [[shows]] and make sure that this help goes away today because we are organizing ourselves as an organization, people are self-organizing and sending themselves money, and there is a need for the Bulgarian Taraklia region in Moldova because thousands of refugees are currently in its territory. I was there, and I saw what it was about. They have no money to welcome them and run out of their own food supplies, including the Bulgarians in Moldova now need help. I've been talking to you about Bulgarians all the time, you're talking to me, "We sent eight trucks." Let's help our countrymen first, help others afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u46	Will there be a hole or not? As you wish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u47	Yes, it really is a priority, as I said, and we don't speak two different languages just to tell you. We speak the same language that we need to help these people with everything we can. And that you do it from your organization, well done! This has to go on like this. The government will do its job, but I would like to make it clear that a mother with a child with a Ukrainian passport, whether she is from a Bulgarian minority or she is pure Ukrainian and she is in real need of feeding for example to this child, the Bulgarian government will not make a difference because at the moment we are helping these people with what we can. But yes, for the Bulgarian minority we have opened the possibility for communication, if they can come to Bulgaria, we will welcome them. We've done the whole organization already from the border, through hotels, through accommodation, so, I assure you, this is a huge priority. If you have decided to focus on a specific group of the Bulgarian minority, please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there a second question for the Prime Minister? Colleagues from GERB-SDS, will your second question also be to the Prime Minister or not? No, I guess not. From the DPS, will your second question also be to the Prime Minister? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister Petkov, a week ago we learned that the government acted quickly when there was a direct danger to Bulgarian citizens in Ukraine, and together with our partners you brought 190 people from the country to Bulgaria. Since it is good to hear some good news at such times, please tell us with a little more details about the evacuation of these Bulgarian citizens from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Petkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u51	This issue is very important to take into account the role of the Bulgarian services. What we had as a problem is that there was no open green corridor from the Bulgarian Embassy, which coordinated 190 people to White Church, which was the southern corridor. Taking people south, we had four buses standing there at night, but no one dared to get them in. And here I have to congratulate General Venev, who managed to organize at three o'clock in the morning we were on the phone together, at three o'clock in the morning we were able to find a corridor and a person who could hire to coordinate with the Ukrainian police and with the servicemen. At three o'clock in the morning the buses left, separated from each other, so as not to think it was a military convoy, and were spent until morning to the embassy, where the embassy already had a full organization to pick up the citizens of Bulgaria who had announced themselves. We filled the buses with the people and again to the White Church divided, we managed to get these Bulgarian citizens out for several hours before this green corridor was closed. This was a very good demonstration that the Bulgarian services can work, are effective, and when there is desire and coordination with the whole government, such things happen that were the only four buses on that day that were taken out of Kiev. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u53	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. A week ago you mentioned that in 10 seconds you made a decision, but now let's try to figure out what decision you've made. From our friend, among those 160 people evacuated not 190, we know that the operation was quite complicated. Thank God it's been a smooth 30-six-hour journey for elderly people, children, even grandmothers. Everything is going well, according to the situation, to the Bulgarian border. That's where the problems start, in particular the lack of any organization. There at our border, the evacuees were held for several hours, there was no green corridor in Bulgaria. I am talking, there was no medical examination. Kossy tests were carried out on everyone in a place that took a long time to do something that could have been done later in the legal order. The people are then left to accommodate institutions that have no direct responsibility for this. By the way, we have information that this is happening at the moment and the refugees are being left to the mayors and they are from there based on some promises and their good relations with the local hoteliers somehow cope. So my question is to you as Prime Minister. What organization did you make between the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Interior in particular "Migration" and those directly subordinate to you the State Agency for Refugees, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad and the State Agency for Child Protection, for the Migrant Stream? According to official data, there are already 25 000 people in Bulgaria, at least this is going on in the media. And in this regard, I would ask you very briefly to comment on your own words, which caused not a very positive response for Bulgaria, namely: "These are not the refugees we are accustomed to. I've checked the words, these are the exact words from the video, Mr. Prime Minister: These are European people, intelligent, educated, some of them are programmers, highly qualified. This is not the refugee wave that we are accustomed to and that we do not know what to do with people with unclear backgrounds, whether they are terrorists or not, these are............................ Please comment on your own words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u54	Here you go, Mr. Petkov. The second part slightly deviated from the frame asked in the original question
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u55	On the first question, the organisation is structured as follows: On the border are also installed in today, points through which documents will be issued and documents for temporary residence in Bulgaria will be issued and will have a number which any Ukrainian who enters the territory of Bulgaria can use as a document. From there a signal is sent to the Ministry of Tourism, which keep a database of all hotels ready to accommodate refugees. They are headed towards these hotels in coordination with the regional governors so that there is no chaos and that these people will be accommodated in our hotels, which are currently outside the tourist season. Then our hotels can pay their expenses from the targeted Ukrainian residents with compensation of 40 BGN. To a person. At the same time, we have the opportunity to divide the flow of those who want to use Bulgaria as a refuge and those who just want to pass through Bulgaria. Those who just pass through Bulgaria pass on a tourist visa, so for them the state does nothing, they handle themselves. Those who want to use Bulgaria as a refuge pass through this channel and at the same time we have already activated a platform for quick integration. Employers give their possible positions so that these people can quickly integrate into the Bulgarian society. At the same time, there is coordination with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, so that they also have adequate medical care for their children to be able to integrate into our school system. All this happened in one week, we know that the war is eight days old and I am really glad that the Bulgarian institutions this time showed that they can work coordinatedly. We have a special headquarters that makes coordination between all of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u56	Where is this headquarters?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u57	Yes, the headquarters is in the Council of Ministers. [[Heckling]] The important thing is that he has it. So that's what this is about. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u58	Colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u59	On the other subject, I want to say very clearly, in order not to be misunderstood, the only thing I had in mind is that Ukrainian refugees are many... some of them are also a Bulgarian minority, they speak the language, they are much closer to us as an opportunity for integration. But Bulgaria is absolutely open and there are no discriminatory policies between the different types of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u60	Thank you. There is such a people, is the second question also yours to the Prime Minister? [[Reply.]] No, I guess not. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Not either. And from rebirth? And the second question is to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u61	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, just a week ago in this Parliament, a statement was voted in which your coalition, which elected you Prime Minister, together with DPS and GERB, clearly and categorically supported sanctions against Russia. When we explained that this violates the national interests and that it is not Bulgaria's job to include and initiate new sanctions against Russia, some of the people present in the Chamber declared this cynical. Only a week later Bulgaria has already been declared an enemy state of Russia. Just a week later you made a statement that Bulgaria will not participate in sanctions that are related to energy carriers, such as gas and oil or something else that you had in mind. My question to you is: when exactly do you defend national interest? When you call for severe sanctions here, or when you see that we are facing collapse, if the Russian Federation imposes reciprocal penalties, because these are penalties against us, because we are dependent on the Russian Federation, which is very unfortunate, but it is a fact. When exactly are you open, honest and defending national interests a week ago or now? Because now you say you want more sanctions, but if we can turn off the gas. Well, no, we can't possibly and it will be very sad, because the price of gas is already enormously high, without seeing sanctions from Russia against the European Union and we as part of this European Union. How do you intend to continue to exist if we really have sanctions from the Russian Federation against us? Because the coalition in this Parliament has six parties supporting these sanctions because this coalition together with GERB and DPS are calling for Bulgaria's inclusion in the war. What is your opinion on our economic development from now on if we have really sanctions from the Russian Federation against us?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u62	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u63	The answer to your question is: all the time is guided by the Bulgarian interest. The answer to your question is that when we see a Slavic state firing missiles at the peaceful population of another Slavic state, Bulgaria will not bow its head and will talk about this injustice with the right terminology using the word war, and at the same time we will not lower ourselves from the grass and hide in front of this manifest injustice.. All Bulgarian citizens see from morning to night how women and children are without homes, wondering how to escape the war. So, yes, we won't be quieter and we won't bow our heads. But at the same time, when you talk about sanctions, you don't talk about allangro sanctions just like that. From sanctions to sanctions, there is a difference, and those sanctions that we can support, we support them because it is not right for this war to exist, but those sanctions that we simply cannot afford, we do not support them. Now, if oil is stopped at this moment from Russia we have a problem. So from sanctions to sanctions matters, and we are considering each of the sanctions separately, we are not talking in general. Separately, I want to tell you how I also protect the Bulgarian interest. When the Russian Ambassador used insulting words against the Bulgarian institutions, I called her and received her apology. Unlike you, I do not know what you were talking about at the meeting with her on March 1st, but it is obviously not to require an apology when insulting the Bulgarian institutions. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] So this is a follow-up of the Bulgarian interest. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u64	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, maybe you haven't heard from Harvard, but lack of response is also an answer. The fact that you didn't answer anything essentially, but besides using words that are not properly used and are not at all in this speech, I will not comment on it. But we are talking about economic sanctions, consequences and what we are doing in this situation, because just one day ago your Minister of Transport, who is also a sponsor of your campaign with 300,000. BGN, apparently this was evidence to become Minister of Transport, said that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u66	Mr. Ganev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u67	... is ready to impose the closing of the Bulgarian ports for Russian ships. I apologize very much, you are talking here about oil from Russia, Urals, you are not saying Russia, you say Urals, but at the same time your minister is talking about closing the Bulgarian ports. What do we do if we close the Bulgarian ports for Russian ships and what do we do if the Russian Federation imposes reciprocal sanctions against us and stops the gas? [[Reply.]] Mr. Karadjov, I am very glad that you say that the Bulgarian ports are closed to Russian ships, something new I am learning. It is good to go out and explain it, since this is already a fact, to know here the Bulgarian public and we as MPs that the Bulgarian ports are closed. [[Heckling]] But I repeat, Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't answer anything, but this is also an answer, because you obviously have no idea what will happen to the Bulgarian economy, with the policy that you are leading, to have community interests in the European Union. No, we have national interests and we must protect national interests, not the Community interests of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u68	Here you go, Mr. Petkov. [[Reply.]] Yes, Urals is the name of the oil variety.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u69	Yes, and that is exactly what I was going to comment on - get acquainted with the terminology before speaking. Yeah, that's the first thing. The second thing is for ships arriving from Russia, there is an exception at the moment and this is not imposed, there are exceptions for ships transporting crude oil. So also, get to know the details before you speak. And I'm going to tell you something that surprised me personally. At my meeting with Ambassador Mitrofanova she confirmed your meeting on March 1st and I wonder if you managed to protect the Bulgarian interests there or sold them. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u70	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. We've run out of questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Now we're going to continue the Change, come in for a question. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u71	What about attitude to answers?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u72	It has nothing to do with the answers within the blitzcontrol. Are we continuing to change the question? You don't. To none of the members? Okay. From GERB you have another question. Delyan Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov. Mr. Minister, my question is very clear, very brief and I ask you the same answer. I want to ask you how many bridges on the Danube and how many tunnels, except for Shipka, will be built by the end of your four-year term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! I have answered this question several times, I mean, I don't know why or how it happened, that only you didn't understand the answer. If you read our coalition agreement carefully, you will see that it is recorded to work actively for the construction of four new bridges on the Danube River and one that is above the Lake of Beloslav in Varna. With regard to the tunnels, it is also written that these are three new tunnels. One that is below Shipka peak and for which coordination procedures with MOEW are currently underway to determine environmental measures. The second is Petrohan's, which is already being worked on for an extended project. The third one is along the route of the future highway, which has already had an extended project, which has taken the first steps of the design and has reached the second stage of the so-called extended idea design, namely to define the environmental measures again, which will probably take another year. The fact is that for this last tunnel there is a delay from June to February when nothing has been done on these environmental assessments. We've reopened it. It's under full force right now. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Here's a line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u77	Thank you. The short answer to everything you said was zero, despite the promises of four bridges over the Danube, only on the Danube four, and three tunnels under the Balkan Mountains. But that's not really the worst, especially in the present times. There are many other promises that have not been kept and are far more significant for the Bulgarian society than tunnels and bridges, for example 8 billion are stolen. Turns out they don't steal any billions. I won't take any loans. It turned out that in the first budget we took 7 billion and we bet the debt to gross domestic product to reach 30% by 2030. The compensation for the electricity you give was the same as the one we offered. Well, no, it's not! Because at £1073. Current our compensation would be 790 BGN and yours is 250 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u78	Is that about it, Mr. Dobrev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u79	So we offered three times the compensation. A little outside the scope of the matter, but come on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u80	I can tell, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u81	There wouldn't be people below the poverty line! In fact, by the end of the year, we will have a record number and a percentage of people below the poverty line. We'd all be rich by stopping stealing. We get poor every day because of high inflation. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u82	There's also a connection to the answers in the blitzcontrol. The DPS asked both questions to the Prime Minister. Mr. Zafirov, please come in for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of the House! First, let me celebrate the celebration of the better part of humanity. My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Nino, and I apologize in advance for asking a question that has been answered repeatedly, including publicly. I have to ask him from this tribune and get an answer as a result of the fact that a lie and manipulation is increasingly lasting and sustainable in the Bulgarian public domain, especially in social networks. Including today from this tribune, a similar suggestion was made, namely, my question is: Did the Bulgarian state grant permission to export weapons, goods and technology with dual use to Ukraine? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u85	Happy holiday, dear Bulgarian women, wherever you are in the world! I wish you to be healthy, respected and loved, and with self-confidence that we women, apart from proving ourselves at work every day equal to men, create cosiness, family, home, give birth and take care of the upbringing and upbringing of our children! Happy Thanksgiving one more time! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Bulgarian citizens, really in recent weeks a false story has been very persistent, a lie that Bulgaria exports weapons, goods or dual-use technologies to Ukraine. I would like to explain to all viewers and to you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, you are not obliged to know how the export of weapons from Bulgaria happens. There is an Interdepartmental Commission which examines documents and issues authorisations or makes refusals. In this interdepartmental commission participate: the State Agency for National Security, the Military Information Service, the Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy, now the economy and industry. After all these services and institutions are signed by permission or refusal, the Minister of Economics finally signs, whoever he is, that is the law, in this case I stand before you in this capacity. Today I will do something unprecedented from here, something that has not been done in the Bulgarian Parliament. Allow me even if you are interested, of course, to stop with this manipulation and suggestion that Bulgaria supplies weapons to the Ukrainian army, and a little more time if it exceeds the minute. I will present to you the whole export and transfer of Bulgaria to the whole world, since this government has been elected, by country, how much money and what goods are we talking about. By law, we are obliged to submit an annual report on exports, imports, transfer and arms trade to you at the end of the year. We're not waiting for the end of the year. I've received permission from the DANS, from Military Intelligence, from the Ministry of Interior, from the Ministry of Interior, the ministries of economy and defense today to stand before you and take out the information on everything, and to stop this lie because it's very dangerous. The claim that Bulgaria exports weapons to one of the countries means direct intervention in the war of Bulgaria, at least in my opinion. And he who continues to insinuate it is facing the national security of Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I have proposed to the Commission this proposal, which I intend to implement to you, rather than waiting for the end of the year to give you an account of what the Bulgarian government does on this subject, we will face you on behalf of the Commission every quarter, because I do not make these decisions individually, and we will provide you with these reports. Now, if you are interested, of course, export and transfer from Bulgaria to the world: North Africa, Algeria and Morocco. By the way, this is from the beginning of this government to this day, if you think the numbers are small, it's just a matter of a few months. North Africa, Algeria and Morocco 2 million Three thousand. 619 BGN, at such a value, exports were made from Bulgaria and transfer. Sub-Saharan Africa is called in our terminology this region, which covers Burkina Faso, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Guinea, Côte d'Ivoire, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa and South Sudan. Exports worth 43 million 649 thousand. BGN 469. in Bulgarian goods. North America, Canada and the United States. 115,000. BGN 320. Central America and Cariby And 400 leva. Central Asia, Uzbekistan, export and transfer worth 339 thousand. And 300 leva. North-East Asia covers Mongolia and Taiwan, 53 thousand. And 200 leva. South-East Asia, Indonesia and Malaysia "446 thousand" BGN 118. is the amount of exports. South Asia, Bangladesh, India, Maldives and Pakistan 5 million. 233 thousand. £961. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission pursuant to points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. 819 thousand. £649.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u86	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u87	Other countries - European Azerbaijan, Georgia, Serbia, Switzerland and Turkey - 18 million. Seven hundred and £343. Near East, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Oman, Saudi Arabia, 317 million. 140,000. BGN 771. Or in total for the time of the government of Kiril Petkov for the time since the beginning, his choice here in the Chamber, to the day I am talking about 504 million. 990 thousand. 150 BGN. volume, export and transfer of Bulgarian weapons, dual-use goods and technologies in the destinations I have just read to you all over the world. Has anyone heard from Ukraine? Please stop this abuse and this suggestion in society. This lie really poses a threat to Bulgaria's national security. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. I am extremely satisfied with your answer. I also didn't hear Ukraine on the list you read. That is, once again, we can conclude, I hope finally that the Bulgarian state does not export weapons, goods, dual-use technologies to Ukraine. In view of the ongoing speculation, I would like to ask you in the form of a reply: is it possible, however, that in any way such Bulgarian goods may fall into the conflict zone without the Bulgarian state being empathetic to this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u91	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is quite possible from each of these destinations, where Bulgaria exports its goods or technologies, to be redirected to Ukraine or to another point in the world. But this is not the responsibility of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian government. It cannot, nor has the right to track such secondary movements of its dual-use and weapons goods and technologies. To give permission, the Bulgarian government receives a certain set of documents. In some of these documents, the partner who wants to make exports must indicate the destination. The Bulgarian Government and the Interdepartmental Commission do not consider transactions in which Ukraine is indicated destination. I've read you about which countries and how much money we've exported. Whether of these countries can then go to another place.Yes, theoretically and practically it is possible, but this is outside the competence and outside the rights of Bulgaria under all international and Bulgarian laws. We stand before you and the Bulgarian people with the full responsibility we bear as government and as Commissioners and tell you what we have done under international law and under Bulgarian laws. And what we're saying is an absolute fact. In order to confirm the practice that I propose to create and consolidate it, in details tomorrow, by the end of the day at the latest, because colleagues in the ministries have worked all night to gather this information and to summarize it, for which I thank them, we will formally submit this report to Parliament in writing tomorrow, much more detailed than I have set out for you, since I did not have enough time. Under this report will be the signatures of all the services and ministries that I have told you are participating in the Interdepartmental Commission. I think this is a broad enough representation of responsible Bulgarian institutions, which, by putting their signature under what we will present to you as a report officially in the National Assembly, guarantee its authenticity. This is what we will do every three months to give peace and security to Bulgarian citizens that Bulgaria does not participate in these military actions through weapons, ammunition, technologies and dual-use goods. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Will such a people have a second question? Here you go. You have the floor, Mrs. Trajanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My question is to you, Mr. Sandov. It's about the dumps. The fact is that in the country there are many dumps waiting for their decision in one way or another. Because of physical and chemical processes, they often set themselves on fire, which disrupts the lives and well-being of people in nearby settlements. I've been looking for an answer to the question of how it's solved, this self-inflammation of how it goes out and so on. It turns out that the practice of burying such self-incinerations doesn't work. My question is this: is there technology, are you looking for a solution, other than what I mentioned, to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u95	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable viewers and listeners! In turn, I would also like to congratulate all the ladies in connection with today's celebration! In particular, on the topic of disposal and self-combustibles, yes, they are, in most cases, actual self-combustibles due to the presence of biological waste that creates methane emissions that are flammable due to the presence of glass or other materials that act as a magnifying glass, and under certain climatic conditions, self-combustible may occur. I'm afraid not every such case is natural, self-inflammation. I am afraid that at times this is done to limit the amount of waste in this depot, as often these depots are filled quickly, in advance, in relation to the deadlines set. Since the accumulated waste is in depth, the type of fire that happens is smoldering. There is virtually no high fire, but it is very difficult to put out, because by burying it does not predict the possibility that there is no oxygen for which to burn, and in fact the only way is by using water. It's the only way to turn it off. I'm not a fire safety specialist, there might be another way, but in my opinion, there should be an opportunity to react to water repayment systems, as far as burying doesn't seem to be able to do this job. If you are familiar with other methods, please provide them to us and we, in turn, give as prescriptions to landfill operators, as we do not operate the depots ourselves, but we can make prescriptions to them how they react in such cases. Otherwise, I fully agree that this is of great importance to the health of people living in the region, because in these landfills we have a mix of different waste, some of which are very harmful if inhaled by their burning. So we have to look together for solutions to this type of question to not get to the ignition of these depots. The first, which is and most important, which means that there should be no surface large areas with such waste, there should be better safety measures, because sometimes it can be a matter of poor or untrue use by the operators themselves who are there, by the people, a lack of a sufficiently good safety culture. And secondly, if you really have information, I would be happy to have it provided to us and we can narrow it down to the operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Here you are, Mrs. Trajanska, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Unfortunately, I have no answer to the question of technology, so I asked you. In my opinion, there is no decision at this time about whether to bury, whether to extinguish with water, because often, I refer, of course, to a particular junkyard for which I have surveillance, and it lights itself up, ignites in another way, it doesn't matter, inside the dump. It can't reach the fire department, nor can it reach, figuratively speaking, the tractor, with the dirt to bury it with. My proposal to the Ministry of the Environment is to look for a way, perhaps there are such technologies that are in the solution to this issue. Because the fact that it can't be extinguished with water or with a finger or whatever it is doesn't help the population around. And this process, I think, will find a solution in time in a few years maybe, and people at the same time live close to these dumps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Trajanska. Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for raising this question, it is really important. In recent years, they have reduced the incidence of such self-inflammation. I guess the operators paid a little more attention to the matter. It seems to me that prevention is more important. First of all, we need to change our way of managing our waste and only 10% of it to depopulate, which will limit the very risk of such combustions. Secondly, we need to have more prevention. When a waste comes to the depot, it should be rapidly technically reconstructed to be thawed, and thus there should be no risk of this fire occurring in depth. And thirdly, when it does get, for one reason or another, to such a fire, I don't think there's any other way except through large amounts of water that I think can still get relatively close to that, but we need to get a greater distance... and maybe larger volumes, because the fire is not superficial and needs to get to the core, where the smoldering actually happens. For my part, I undertake to review what the prescriptions are and if I find that there are shortcomings or incompletes or that something can be added by exploring foreign experience, for which I thank you for calling me, I undertake to fill in, to create additional requirements for landfill operators to operate precisely in this direction, to limit opportunities and respond adequately to such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria to the second question? I won't. "We are continuing the Change." There is no question. Is there a second question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. We've run out of blitz control with this, colleagues. I thank the members of the Council of Ministers for participating in the blitzcontrol and until shortly in regular parliamentary control. Colleagues, there were requests for declarations before that which were not admissible during the blitzcontrol period. If you'd like to make a statement now, please. If not, I'll give it till 11:00 when we start with regular control. There are no requests for declarations, as far as I can see. I'm giving it till 11:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u101	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First of all, I will read you the written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 18 February 2022 to 7 March 2022: Written answers by Minister Alexander Nikolov on: - a question from the MP Vladislav Panev; - question from the MP Dragomir Stoinev; - a question from the National Representative Emil Georgiev; - question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov; - eleven questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - three questions from the MP Rosen Koshurkov. Written responses by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev to: - a request from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - a question from the MPs Faith Emilova, Veska Nencheva and Alexander Simov; - a question from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev; - five questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova. Written answers by Minister Asena Serbenova to: - a question from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov; - question from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva; - five questions from the MP Desislava Atanasova; - two questions from the MP Kostadin Kostadinov. Written response from Minister Atanas Atanasov to: - a question from the MP Tsveta Galunova. Written answers by Minister Bozidar Bojanov to: - two questions from the MPs Alexander Nestorov, Pavlin Krastev and Mumyun Mumyun. Written answers by Minister Boyko Rashkov to: - question from the National Representative Atanas Slavov; - a question from the National Representative Valeri Lachovski; - two questions from the MP Desislava Atanasova; - a question from the National Representative Manoil Manev; - a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Nikolai Radulov; - a question from the MPs Pavlin Krastev, Bajram Bajram, Adlen Shevked, Mukaddes Nalbant, Hayri Sadakov and Elhan Kulkov; - a question from the MP Hristo Terziyski; - a question from the MP Daniel Mitov; - a question from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev. Written answers by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov on: - a question from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Vladislav Panev; - a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; - a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; - a question from the National Representative Stefan Shilev; - a question from the MP Tsveta Galunova; Written response from Minister Georgi Gokov to: - a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. Written responses by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov to: - a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev and Zornitsa Stratieva; - a question from the National Representative Vassil Zashkev; - a question from the National Representative Zarko Marinov; - five questions from the National Representative Zlatomira Mostrova; - three questions from the National Representative Ivelin Ivanov; - four questions from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - two questions from the National Representative Iskra Mihailova; - a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - a question from the National Representative Nikola Dimitrov; - two questions from the National Representative Snezhana Apostolova; - a question from the MP Stefan Apostolov; - a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - a question from the MP Ivaylo Mirchev. A written response from Minister Daniel Lorre to: - a question from the MP Nikolina Angelkova. Written answers by Minister Ivan Ivanov to: - Asked by the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; - a question from the MP Gunay Hewesmen; - a question from the MP Zarko Marinov. Written answers by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Industry Cornelia Ninova of: - question from the National Representative Ivo Ruschev; - a question from the MP Nikolina Angelkova. Written answers by Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to: - two questions from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov; - a question from the MP Dimitar Tashev. Written answers by Minister Nikolay Denkov to: - a question from the National Representative Ivan Ganchev; - a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. Written answers by Minister Nikolay Subev to: - a request from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - a question from the MP Blagovest Belev; - a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; - six questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - a question from the National Representative Antoinette Tsoneva. Written answers by Minister Radostin Vassilev to: - a question from the National Representative Inna Ivanova; - a question from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev. Written answers by Minister Stefan Yanev to: - question from the National Representative Atanas Slavov; - a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev. Written answers by Minister Teodora Gencovska on: - a question from the MP Elisaveta Belobradova; - a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - five questions from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - a question from the MP Tsveta Galunova. Written answers by Minister Hristo Prodanov to: - a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tashev; - two questions from the MP Ilin Dimitrov. Now we can start with the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u102	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u103	Here you are, Mr. Bikov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u104	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, those who are still present! In recent months, our country has faced a number of domestic and international crises. It is our belief that crisis times suggest timely and targeted reactions, clear responsibility and efforts to conduct an intensive political and public dialogue to help overcome the various challenges. In recent months, we have seen everything else, but not such behaviour by the ruling majority. The beginning of solving each crisis begins with its naming and awareness of the reasons that caused it, in their depth. Our feeling is that the current government has no potential to do this. Even during the caretaker government, we warned about the growth of electricity prices, as well as about the risks it will put the Bulgarian economy at risk. In response, we received a refusal to include the fact of rising electricity prices in the budget update for 2021 in the form of compensation for business and industrial electricity consumers. In the first days of this Parliament, we proposed a specific solution that adequately compensates the Bulgarian business for increasing the price of electricity, taking into account that our country is a producer and even an exporter of electricity and can afford it. The result is that, to this day, our proposal is not yet under discussion and vote in plenary, and the government and the ruling majority are unable to propose and take their own decision to give an adequate response to this crisis. The more important result, however, is that in recent months the electricity price crisis has grown into a large-scale price crisis, which is already out of control of the government and is increasing its damage to the entire Bulgarian economy every day. Because of the inaction of the ruling majority and the government on this topic, there will be mass bankruptcy, an increase in unemployment and instead of overcoming the crisis. Against this background, the war in Ukraine further sharpened the need for rapid and adequate government reactions. Instead, in the early days of this war, the ruling majority generated a government crisis that ended with a change of defence minister. In the first days after the war started, we are already picking the fruits of its negative economic consequences, without having a government and a ruling majority capable of responding responsibly and decisively. Last week, gas prices crossed the psychological barrier of three levs per litre, which created panic in society and caused queues in front of gas stations for the first time since 1997. Instead of calming the public and ensuring that there are enough fuels in Bulgaria and will not come to collapse, the government, first, kept silent, and then accused the Youth Organization of GERB of creating panic. Moreover, in his helplessness, Finance Minister Asen Vassilev threatened anyone who filmed the queues in front of the gas stations and distributed the footage on social networks with prison. We recall that such footage appeared not only in social networks, but also in most Bulgarian media, including the three national television stations. The most important thing Bulgarian citizens saw, however, were not the footage of the queues in front of the gas stations, but the government's inability to act in a crisis situation. The absence of simple coordination between the different ministries, the totally confused communication policy and the lack of potential for perception and awareness of obvious risks to society are only symptoms of the disease which for this management becomes chronic, and the disease is called deep incompetence, accompanied by a sense of infallibility and a tendency to abuse of power. Dear colleagues, the country's management should not have the form of either an experiment or a start-up or a training course. This is a serious and responsible task that should be solved by people who have the necessary training, sense and willpower. You must be prepared because no Bulgarian citizen owes you time or patience. Time and patience doesn't owe you the opposition either. You are indebted to society, not to you, because it is the society that has given you credit for trust that you are currently squandering in the most reckless and useless way possible. Even at the establishment of the current Parliament, we from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS announced that we are ready to be constructive opposition and offered our expertise, experience and support for making important decisions for the nation. Against that, we have received a total refusal of dialogue, insulting qualifications and arrest lists. Today we say to you that from now on we refuse to show understanding of your incompetence, irresponsibility and lack of any sense of national responsibility. We believe that the current formula of governance is not just inadequate to the situation, but will cause more damage and damage to the Bulgarian economic, social and geopolitical interest every day. From this point of view, it is our duty to be an uncompromising opposition. Our responsibility is to make an effort to ensure that Bulgaria has a new governance, which is capable of responding to the challenges of the crises. A management that uses every second of its time for decisive action, not to explain another management blunder. We are convinced that in such crucial moments the Bulgarian nation needs unity and opportunity to unfold all the potential it has. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, I will read the members of the Council of Ministers who will respond and order, as this is usually done on Thursday for Friday, but the present case is more unusual. First of all, Borislav Sandov, Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Minister for Environment and Water, will respond to: - a question by Petar Nikolaev Kulenski concerning verification and action taken in relation to a decision to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment, No PC-34-PR/2019, the Director of RIEW Pazardzhik; - a question from Ivaylo Hristov Hristov concerning problems in the activity of a regional landfill for non-hazardous solid municipal waste near the village of Stoger, Dobrichka municipality, and the alleged violations in preparation for expansion of the capacity of the depot and construction of a waste collector and discharge of waste water in a surface water site. Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works will respond to: - a question by Valeri Plamenov Lachovski about the Republican road network in Pleven; - a question by Desislava Valcheva Atanasova about leading law firms analyzing the contracts for the award of the construction by the Automagistrali "EAD" for Lot 1, 2 and 3 of the highway "Hemus" with companies performers; - question from Desislava Atanasova about repairing the road to the village of Trigrad; - a question from Yusain Weyselov about actions and omissions of the Road Infrastructure Agency.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - a question by Krum Kostadinov Zarkov about government policy regarding the organisation of the management of floor property; - question from Dimitar Ivanov concerning the repair of Republican road III-5503 [[Bolar's branch, Boyadzhik]] on the territory of the municipality of Tunjas, Yambol district; - question from Ilin Dimitrov about future repairs of the panoramic road Varna "Golden Sands; - a question from Ilin Dimitrov concerning the construction of the estakada over the landslide in the area of Trifon Zarezan locality near the city of Varna; - a question from Angel Georgiev about the construction of transport links from highways to nearby settlements; - a question from Krasen Krastev concerning the beginning in 2021 of a complete repair of the Republican road III-134 Byala Slatina "Gorna Besovitsa; - a question from Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova on the implementation of a contract "Integrating a water project for Burgas" with beneficiary - a question by Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova regarding the implementation of a contract..Determining of a contractor of construction works for an object: Walkway of the city of Burgas from km 230+700 on the road I-9 Sarafovo.... Burgas to km 493+550 on the road I-6 Wind.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a question by Rumen Hristov concerning agreements drawn up by a working group in the composition of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the contracting entity of the contracts. - a question from Dimitar Tashev regarding further construction of sewerage to the ongoing implementation of major renovation of water pipes in the town of Ahtopol and Velika village; Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, will respond to: - question by Krasimir Valchev about effective and balanced use of information technology and electronic resources, tailored to the age and development of children and students; - a question from Elena Guncheva about completing the school year by students who studied in distance learning in electronic environments and those with unacquired absences; - a question by Krasimir Valchev on policies for the definition of a plan-acceptance at a high school stage of education; - a question from Krasimir Valchev on policy regarding the network of higher schools and professional directions; - Ask by Elena Guncheva about closed schools in Bulgaria; - a question from Veska Nencheva about admission for the academic 2022 in a foreign language profile in Sofia, Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, - a question from Veska Nencheva about the process of attestation for teachers, laid down by the Act on pre-school and school education in 2016; - a question by Irena Anastasova about the actions of the Ministry of Education and Science after 20 inspections and detected violations in the management activities of the Director of the School of Education - Ivan Vazov Nadezhda Yordanova, Minister of Justice, will respond to: - a question by Desislava Atanasova about the Central Register of Special Bets at the Ministry of Justice; - Ask by Elena Guncheva about benefits under the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for damages and compensation in cases in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Ivan Ivanov, Minister of Agriculture, will respond to: - a question from Petar Petrov about the need for urgent measures to repair the dam of the dam near the town of Montana by its owner, Ministry of Agriculture; - question from Boyko Klechkov on support for the potato producers during the new programming period 2023 - 2027; - a question from Elhan Kulkov about the intended logging of timber around the water supply area of the village of Gorno Dryanovo, the municipality of Garmen; - a question from Zornitsa Stratieva, Alexander Dunchev, Miroslava Petrova concerning measures for the protection of the centuries-old forests in Bulgaria, which are subject to logging. Hristo Prodanov, Minister of Tourism, will respond to: - question from Nikolina Angelkova about the status of national resorts; - question from Ilin Dimitrov about a contract for advertising Bulgaria and Bulgarian tourism with BBC. Alexander Nikolov, Minister of Energy, will respond to: - a question from Stoyan Taslakov about the state of the underground wealth reserves in the locality "Suhata vada" to the village of Joakim Gruevo after the illegal extraction of ballast from the field; - a question from Petar Kulenski about carrying out an inspection and taking action in relation to the activity of a quarry for extraction of inert materials from the locality of the village of Miryantsi, Pazardzhik Municipality; - question from Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov, Fatme Ramadan about the government's actions to ensure Bulgaria's energy security. Boyko Rashkov, Minister of the Interior, will answer 50 questions: - a question by Mustafa Karadai, Mukaddes Nalbant, Yuseyin Veyselov, again by Yuseyin Weyselov, Hairi Sadakov, Mumyun Mumyun, again by Mumun, Stanislav Anastasov, Neby Kabak, again a question by Neby Kabak, Ahmed Ahmed, another question by Ahmed Ahmed, Fatme Ramadan, another by Halil Letifov, Pavlin Krastev, Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev, Güner Ahmed, Ramadan, another by Mr. Ramadan, another by Fatme Ramadan, Pavlin Krastev, Tsvetan Ivanov, Güner Ahmed Georgy Gokov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, will respond to: - a question by Denitsa Sacheva on commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria, set out in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, on social assistance policy; - a question from Mustafa Karadayi, Ahmed Ahmedov, Hasan Ademov about the disregard for real insurance internship for the purposes of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Social Security Code for the period of recruitment of military service, as well as the time during which they were illegally imprisoned in camps and imprisoned repressed persons under the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Teodora Gencovska; - Minister of Health Asena Serbenova. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev will not participate. Due to illness, the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Branimir Balachev his question is postponed to the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev. We are moving on to the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov. Here you are, Mr. Kulenski, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Deputy Prime Minister Sandov! During a meeting with citizens in Pazardzhik, I was informed about a case related to a decision of the Director of RIEW Pazardzhik, with which he refused to carry out an EIA for an investment proposal "Development of a waste treatment site in the village of Sinitovo, Pazardzhik municipality, according to which a total of 997 940 tonnes of waste is planned to be deposited. The investment proposal should be implemented within the protected zone of Besaparski hills and protected by order of the Minister of Environment and Water. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Sandov, residents of the village of Sinitovo are extremely worried about the upcoming construction of the waste disposal site in view of the fact that it is positioned in the middle of their vegetable gardens, close to their houses, as well as the pumping station that provides drinking water to a number of settlements in the region. Therefore, my question to you is: is the Ministry of Environment and Water familiar with the case, has the same inspection been carried out and do you intend to take follow-up in this regard?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kulenski, I am personally familiar with the case, I even think that recently the residents of the village of Sinitovo held a local referendum. I am aware of their concerns about the creation of such a depot there, but since this is under procedure, I am obliged to share with you what is the situation purely procedurally. A check has been carried out for the documents available in the Ministry of Interior in Pazardzhik and in 2019 during the decision-making procedure in the Ministry there has been an objection by citizens of the village of Sinitovo, which has been forwarded for examination by the competent authority in the conduct of the procedure, namely the Director of RIEW Pazardzhik. The decision was appealed before the Administrative Court of Pazardzhik, which rejected the appeals by decision of July 2021. The Supreme Court, by decision of December 2021, has put into effect the first instance decision, including the rejection of the appeals. An administrative act entered into force shall not be arbitrarily revoked by its publisher or the above administrative body, but only in a limited range of hypotheses established in full in the law. In this regard, the prerequisites for the formation of proceedings under Chapter 7 of the Administrative Code are analysed, which is an exceptional control method for the annulment of vicious administrative acts entered into force. The appeal of the 2019 decision of the Director of RIEW Pazardzhik, by court order and his confirmation with an effective judgment in this case excludes the possibility of such proceedings and the annulment of the decision of the Minister of Environment and Water of the Act of the Director of RIEW Pazardzhik. An administrative authority may not resolve a matter which has been resolved by a judgment in force. The Minister's decision has also been notified by the senders of the signal received at the Ministry in February of this year. In addition, the possibilities provided for in Chapter 14 of the APK "Protection against vicious judicial acts' are also analysed. The Code shall grant the right to a request for annulment of a vicious judicial act of a party to the case for which it is not favourable. 238, para. 1 of the APC. In the case of this requirement, the persons who lodged a complaint with the Administrative Court of Pazardzhik shall answer. The General Prosecutor or his deputy at the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office may also request, on the basis and within the time limit set for the parties to art. 238, para. Two of the APCs. The grounds for annulment of an entry into force of a judicial act are listed in full in art. 239, p. 1 supposed to be 6 of the AKK. The possibility of taking action under Chapter 14 of the APC is provided by the Code of Persons and Authorities under art. 238 of the AKK. In conclusion, the principle of legality laid down in art. 4 of the APC states that administrative acts are issued only on the basis of the order and for the purposes established by the law. The Code excludes the possibility of annulment of an act by the Minister of Environment and Water of a 2019 decision of the RIEW Pazardzhik. I have to say, with regret. I have some additional information for you, if you'd like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kulenski, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u110	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I wanted to draw your attention to the importance of the case. You yourself mentioned the local referendum that took place on 19 December 2021. In this local referendum the investment proposal was rejected by the residents of the village of Sinitovo by 771 to 3 votes. Despite the fact that the referendum was cancelled by the court due to accidental or not so random omissions by the Pazardzhik Municipality in the procedure, the result is more than categorical and the considerations of the locals cannot be passed lightly. That is why I ask you to take particular care of this, as well as other cases in RIEW Pazardzhik, as far as it is important for people, so that they do not lose hope in the adequate attitude of institutions towards problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. The next question is Dr. Ivaylo Hristov on problems in the activity of the regional landfill for non-hazardous solid municipal waste near the village of Stoger, Dobrichka municipality, and the alleged violations in preparation for the expansion of the capacity of the depot and the construction of a diverting collector and discharge of waste water in a surface water site. You have two minutes, Dr. Christov, to develop the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u112	First of all, happy holiday to all your coworkers! To be safe, to have less meetings with doctors. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have been given objections by the residents of the village of Novo Botevo, Dobrich municipality, about increasing the capacity of the regional depot. The objection is accompanied by a detailed description of a number of deficiencies and violations both with the operation of the depot so far and with design deficiencies, including the finding of the same in the Natura 2000 area. In RIEW's very decision, there are very questionable motives. For example, how will a pipeline pass through a forest without cutting trees? In fact, over 1,500 trees will be lost there. No number of circumstances have been mentioned in the attached documents. Please provide your answers: Are you familiar with the problem described; have your subordinate institutions carried out checks on the opinions given on the project?Increase the capacity of the Depot, and what is the opinion of the Ministry of Interior; what measures will you take to familiarize the citizens concerned and protect their rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u113	Thank you, Dr. Christov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I thank you for the detailed question described within the framework of extensive documentation regarding actions of the Regional Inspection in Varna on the issue of the depot in Stoger. I was answering a similar question to the last parliamentary control. MOEW and RIEW Varna are familiar with the work of the regional landfill for non-hazardous waste. There are regular complex checks on the implementation of the conditions laid down in the complex permit according to the RIEW control plan for Varna for the year in question. In the period 15 April 2021, the last such a complex environmental inspection and environmental factors have been carried out, which found that the authorised project capacity of 240 thousand. the tonne of waste disposal in box 1 is exhausted and the 24-hour landfill capacity is exceeded which is in breach of the conditions of the complex permit. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The environmental components and factors did not detect any violations, including during the last check carried out three weeks ago, on 15 February. According to the information provided by the Municipality of Dobrich, the investment proposal is to increase the capacity of the plants cell 1 and cell 2 of the regional depot in the village of Stojer and drain the purified waste water in the river Suha river. It predicts an increase in the capacity of cell 1 of 240 thousand. Ton of 295 thousand. Tonne and box 2 from 145 to 170 thousand. the total capacity of the landfill is increased by 685 thousand per day from 130 to 150 tonnes. the tone of 765 thousand. the tone. The investment proposal also provides for changes in the capacity of the separation and composting installation. In addition to changes in the capacity of the installations are planned in the course of the construction of box 2 and the depot installation of a new treatment facility to ensure the purification of the infiltration to the point of discharge in the Dry River. In view of the change in the volume of landfilled waste, a change in the scheme of treatment of infiltration is required. For this purpose the PSU has prepared a parcel plan for the pipeline of purified waters from the depot to the river Suha River. A procedure under Chapter VI of the HIF and the HBR, concluded by Decision of 6/EC of 2021 of the RIEW Varna, is laid down for the PSURs of the technical infrastructure elements. The proposed changes to the investment proposal shall be subject to a procedure to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment. Given the fact that municipalities fall into the territory of two different RIEWs, the Minister of Environment and Water is responsible for the ruling. In connection with the disclosure of an investment proposal and received objections from the Ministry of Environment and Water from the Municipality of Dobrichka, residents of the village of Botevo and Draganovo, the objections were sent to the Municipality of Dobrich on 21 January to comply with the procedure under Chapter VI of the EEA. The investment intention is subject to a procedure for assessing compatibility with the object and objectives of protecting protected areas under the Natura 2000 site. The verification carried out has found that it is admissible in relation to the regime of the protected zone Suha River, as defined by the order for its announcement. The Ministry of Environment has informed the Municipality of Dobrich of the necessary actions to be taken to carry out an assessment procedure on the need to carry out an EIA, including information to the public. After receiving a reply from the Ministry of Municipality will rule on decisions. I also bring you the very letter to the City, which I am prepared to provide.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u115	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Dr. Christov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the detailed answer. I hope I get it and we give it. It's clear that the garbage has to be deposited somewhere, and we still don't have the technology to send it to Mars. The question is where will it be deposited? In this case, I see it's an increase of 80 grand. Is this going to solve the problem, because when the tourist flow increases at the moment, it will be over in no time and it will have to be rebuilt? I believe that it is necessary for this region and to go at all to another option in which so-called waste is treated so as to minimise what remains to be disposed of. And you have to think about the whole, even more so, that there is a very wide region to go to some more modern technology to process these waste. Furthermore, I would ask the relevant regional inspections to improve their work by informing citizens, because it is here that citizens receive better information about what will be done and why it will be done. Once again, thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u117	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, you are absolutely right. I have also said in a previous speech today that we must change the waste management policy and minimise what is being deposited and that what is being deposited must also be very precisely managed in order to minimise the risk to citizens of the occurrence of fires, whether from pollution of the components of the environment, by water and soil. This, unfortunately, is not a priority of municipalities to seek additional mechanisms through information campaigns to reduce waste. It is not yet a priority of business either, as far as the policy in our country is not based on the principle of the.................... pays....................................................................... This change, which is about to happen, is only a matter of time before it happens, and the introduction of the principle....... will motivate both business and households to limit the formation of waste. To use more separate waste collection systems, including by expanding and adding a biological waste collection system, which makes up a large part of the components now of household waste. These biological waste often leads to the creation of methane emissions, which also produce self-inflammation of these landfills. So that's politics. It takes time, requires consent, including from the MPs by changing legislation, but I believe that we will go in this direction together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u119	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov. The first is Mr Valeri Lachovski's on the Republican road network in Pleven district. Mr. Lachowski, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u120	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development, I have the following question for you. How many kilometers of the Republican road network are planned to be renovated in Pleven for 2022 and how many have been repaired or started to be repaired in 2021, but the renovation will be completed this year? Have repair activities already been put in place, what procedure, when repairs are scheduled to begin and what are the deadlines for completion?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u121	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lachovski, in 2021 the repair was completed at 9,364 km from Republican Road III-18 Gulyantsi. For the most part of the section, the reconstruction was carried out using the technology of cold recycling of asphalt concrete flooring, which builds a new layer of pavement using recycled material on site from the upper and compromised layers. Repair works were also carried out on the existing bridge at km 23 over the river Barata, inflow of the river Vit. In 2021, on the territory of Pleven district and through the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance there was a repair of about 50 km of Republican roads. This is a repair of 15 km stretch of road III 306 Knezha border with Vratsa district. Although the works were already awarded in August 2020, they were mainly carried out in 2021, currently at 95% of the planned activities. It is expected that the construction work will resume and finish the work after March 15th. On 5 February 2021 the repair of the 25km section of the third-class road III 305 Krushovitsa In the settlements through which the road III 305 "Krushovitsa" and Sadovets are due to the need to replace the plumbing network. The repair of the road flooring will be completed after completion of the underground communications from the Water and Water. At the end of the regulation of the village of Sadovets at km 19 there is also a registered landslide. A technical project is currently being drawn up to strengthen it. This project is separate from the technological repair project of III 305 and is designed specifically to strengthen the landslide. The entire 25km stretch of road III 305, which I have described so far, is planned to be completed by the end of the construction period. The third site, which is being implemented in Pleven District, was awarded on 9 March 2021. This is the repair of a 10-km section of the second-class Knezha. The activities in the precinct have been completed 90%. The fourth site is the reinforcement of a landslide at the village of Kozar Belene on the Republican road I 3 Byala Botevgrad, which implemented about 40% of the work. As you know, for the winter period due to adverse weather conditions, the activities of all sites are temporarily suspended by Act Model 10 and this will be until 15 March when the same act will resume. The construction programme for 2022 now provides for the following repairs to be made, which as a total kilometer is 83 km of road network. The sections are the following: Republican Road I 3 Gara Byala....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are the roadblocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u123	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Lachowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u124	Thank you for your comprehensive response. I hope that the time will be fixed as soon as possible to begin repairs along the way of the Republican road network in Pleven. Since you mentioned the village of Kozar Belene, you know that there is an extremely big problem, namely the road that starts from the main road of Pleven Ruse, passes through Kozar Belene, through the town of Pleven. Levski and through the village of Asenovtsi. You know that there were also protest activities from the population, and they, as far as I can tell from the signal they gave to me, have a promise that the road will begin to be repaired. The road hasn't been repaired in over 50 years. Therefore, I would like to direct you once travel and repair activities are carried out in this area, if you could pay attention to this road. If you will allow me, the other thing I would like you to pay attention to is that you mentioned that the road will be done I-3 Byala Pleven - Botevgrad, which is being repaired at the moment. The branch, which is for the village of Tellish, you know that there are extremely many problems, very severe catastrophes happen. There the big problem is mainly for the vehicles that are moving and have to take a left turn. Since there is no separate lane for a left turn, if you could also pay attention to this, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u125	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. A hole? No. The next question is from the MP Desislava Atanasova about leading law firms analyzing the contracts for the award of the construction by Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the theme of the construction of the Motorway in recent months is circulating very much in the public space from a degree to which everything that has been done so far in the construction of the Motorway of Hemus, until a member of your cabinet has declared himself committing criminal acts by a political party, which has not yet been proven, and it turns out that you, your government, continue to make payments under the same contracts, which have been concluded by the previous government of the Republic of Bulgaria, i.e. the government of Borisov 3. Once in comment on these issues in the form of blitzcontrol, you of this parliamentary tribune announced that you would now propose to leading law firms to analyze the contracts concluded for the award of construction by In this regard, my question to you is: with which law firms have concluded legal services contracts with the above subject of business, how much are the contracts worth and with what period of execution? Moreover, in the context of what the Prime Minister stated last week, which was not well accepted by the Supreme Council of Law, that the government is discussing holding competitions for leading law firms with which to conclude contracts and only to serve ministries and public procurement and as procedural representation in cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Mrs. Atanasova, as you have quoted my words in part, so it is nice to look at the context in which they were spoken, and this was the debate on how we will proceed in the future with the so-called In House contracts which API has concluded with..........................then it was a question of blitzcontrol on the actions which I, as Minister of Regional Development, escalated to the Council of Ministers. That is, the question with which companies has been concluded and for what amounts, I simply ask you to refer to the Council of Ministers, I have not concluded such contracts as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. With regard to what... the other questions that you have tried here in some way to bring into this otherwise quite specific matter, I have no relation and I have always sought to unravel this problem with inhouse contracts legally, not by circumventing the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u129	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you obviously do not have an answer to the question, but in writing you have provided me with information about the contracts concluded by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with law firms, without, of course, mentioning the names of the leading lawyers or law firms. In any event, you have provided me with information that for the period from 1 April 2021 to 8 February 2022 the MRB have concluded a total of seven contracts with subject-matter of the Law and procedural representation of the value of BGN 755 707,18 without being clear this price with or without VAT is. In addition, you have given me information that, for the period cited, I repeat, the period 1 April 2021. 8 February 2022, you have not been the Minister of Regional Development all along, and that is correct to say, but was the Minister of Staff Comitova, the Road Infrastructure Agency, has concluded 39 pcs. contracts with subject matter "Legal services and procedural representation" for a total value of 293 694,40 BGN. Apart from that, there are other legal service contracts concluded with different organisations and structures which are subordinate to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In this sense, if you wish in the duplicate, you can answer me to the question which concerns only the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works itself, whether you have initiated a procedure on the thesis that you have stated, as I said in the blitzcontrol, regarding these contracts, which are for the inhouse award and here you have rightly and correctly addressed, and when there will be conclusions and conclusions from the law firms in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, you are entitled to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, you are honored to make the distinction, I have already answered: I have not concluded legal service contracts in my capacity as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. That's clear enough. If you had asked for it, I would have given it to you, by the way, without asking for it, the reference by 13 December what the contracts were.. will most likely come out the same figures. Since I do not remember and have not been consulted with me as a minister, some of the companies, for example in the water sector, have no way for us to supervise, and there you have in your reference. The large number is from the water sector, where there are, you know, overdue debts, which even by law have to hire lawyers to go and collect the overdue debts, and then they are given to private court contractors, and that also goes into the same column, so I have no way of answering you for every single water company in the country what these amounts are and no one is consulting them with me. But since I am a minister, I have not made such contracts, and I believe that the legal directorate and the public procurement directorate are qualified enough and are sufficient in number to maintain both the procedural representation of the Ministry and to consult the minister in need. Since the question of inhouse contracts and I maintain my thesis that the law is surrounded, needs a more detailed debate, including in the Council of Ministers, I have escalated this issue to the Council of Ministers and, yes, I have moved the procedure there. For specific contracts, for specific names of law firms and for specific amounts, I simply cannot give you an answer because I do not know these answers. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u133	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the opportunity to develop your second question to Minister Karadzhov and it is about repairing the road to the village of Trigrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will only allow me one word, because indeed Minister Karadjov specifically and correctly answered, to remind you that in the reference you signed, Mr. Karadjov, the contracts with the water companies are described.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u135	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u136	...I didn't stop at them and they're out of the amount of 1 million. BGN, which was paid probably by Minister Komitova for legal services in the past year after you have not concluded such contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u137	I didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u138	I also want to be correct with you, I hope you will provide me with a reference to these contracts along the parliamentary control line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u139	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u140	For the repair of the road to the village of Trigrad, my question may have somewhat lost its relevance, because it was asked a long time ago, exactly one month ago, and in fact it concerns processes related to blocked access to the village of Trigrad because of a failure of road that dates back to December 2021. And at this point, repair activities have not yet started, as far as I have information. I hope that you will answer me whether the funds have been provided for at least this, because it has been more than three months for the residents of the village of Trigrad to be blocked, to have no access to either health care or entry and exit. From the settlement there is an alternative route organized. As far as I have information, it was once thought to be an organized alternative forest road, which, however, remains also impenetrable at the moment. In any case, the state, unfortunately, has not reacted quickly or adequately, and these people have had to protest repeatedly over the past three months to alert their problem. My question to you is when does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works intend to start construction and repair activities, is a project designed to rehabilitate the road and within what time is the planning to restore movement and access to the village? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u142	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I am sure that in your desire to ask a question to me or to the Ministry of Regional Development you have failed to notice that there are two falls on the road to Trigrad. If you've even looked at the map to see exactly where this thing is happening, and those were transmitted on national television when they were covering this thing, there are two falls. One is located on the municipal road for which the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works under Law can do nothing. Municipal roads, which are not part of the Republican Road Network, cannot be repaired, cannot be invested in them from the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The second failure, which happened on the Republican road network, will now quote you precisely the number and signature of the road.. It was immediately fixed. That is to say, within a week, the road was a passable one. This happened as early as December. I've personally been monitoring the repairs day by day. Now, after March 15th, as I announced, this problem will also be resolved permanently when we officially resume construction works on the roads. In the part of the municipal road I will also remind you that in December there was a meeting of the Council of Ministers and then a meeting of the Committee on Disasters and Accidents, which gave the funds, and public procedures had to be held. For the time during which these procedures were conducted, and then there was a process of protesting the chosen company, now the responsibility is entirely to local self-government, so you can probably get information through the mayor of Trigrad. Access to the village of Trigrad and the surrounding villages, as I said, is carried out along the municipal roads with a signature SML 1050/III 197/Techel The municipality of Devin is responsible for their maintenance and repair. The municipal roads for Trigrad are not part of the Republican road network and the Road Infrastructure Agency. In the region of the village of Trigrad is the third-class road III"197/Dospat "Borino" "Teshel" "Nastan" "Devin" which is part of the Republican road network, but it does not provide direct access to the locality. Currently the movement in the section at km 78+150 in the area of Teshell for all vehicles is carried out in two directions in one lane. For the temporary traffic organisation in place, the appropriate road traffic signal shall be placed. After the fall of the intense precipitation at the end of 2021, a stoning of rock material has been carried out on support walls in the section and has been restored. In the section from km 85 to km 86 was restored the naip for the wall of stone masonry. The regional road management Smolyan has sent a notification to the Swimming Directorate of the East-Belly Sea Region (St. Plovdiv) to the riverbed of the Vucha River to strengthen the compromised sections on road III-197 in the heel of the road body. After the permission of the Swimming Directorate will be able to launch the planned emergency recovery works to strengthen the base of the support walls. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For the lasting restoration of the third-class road III-197 in the Teschel section, Devin is about to prepare a technical project and carry out strengthening of several support walls in the sections and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u143	Perhaps you'll continue in the back, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Atanasova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am aware that there are two failures, and I am aware that the municipal administration also has a commitment to maintain the municipal road network, of course, which does not mean that the state should abdicate its obligations. I say this for a reason, although municipal budgets are still being formed. You are probably well aware that when the State Budget Act was examined, as I call it, on the quarter of the second quarter, there were a number of proposals from our parliamentary group, and not only for additional funds on the budgets of municipalities, as well as for certain capital repairs, including those we are talking about today. The ruling majority rejected these proposals and thus provided only 5 million to the Bulgarian municipalities. BGN to meet any needs for capital expenditure. I'll leave it to you to judge the 5 million. BGN, distributed to 265 Bulgarian municipalities, how much will be enough for one such landslide or fall to be rehabilitated, for example in the municipality of Devin. As far as I consider it, there is very, very little money, completely insufficient for such large-scale repairs, as you have mentioned, that is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, in the part of the municipal roads I will agree with you and I have something more to say to you, but for the part of this particular failure I do not agree with because it is a failure due to disaster. In other words, a serious flood that rips off parts of the road in several places and they fall down is like a terrace there. When the foundations of this terrace and the columns that hold it fall below, the road falls down. In this case, it was in our part of the Republican road network, half of the road was lost. We've solved it with a mop. It will now be decided permanently again under such a procedure and by those means which API has for emergency repairs. With regard to the municipality, I repeat once again the funds have been allocated by the disaster and accident fund. This is the normal path and normal funding for municipalities that have suffered from disaster. In this case, if there was a delay, it was in the requirements of the Public Procurement Act, which should be respected anyway. Right now, I think he's already got a contractor. With regard to the lack of funds for road infrastructure on so-called municipal roads, i.e. roads that are outside the first, second and third-class roads that are part of the Republican road network, I have a general opinion. It is agreed with the Ministry of Finance with the entry into force of the budget. Some of the funds currently available in the MRB for road infrastructure will be transformed precisely for municipal roads, can be repaired those roads for which there are regularly issued documents, i.e. for which there is a permit for construction. It's something you'll be able to track in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u147	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Yusaiin Weyselov about actions and omissions of the Road Infrastructure Agency in relation to the placing of road signs and equipment limiting speed. Here you are, Mr. Weyselov, you have two minutes to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During meetings with the residents of the village of Petko Slaveykov and the village of Rahovite, Sevlievo municipality, I was asked questions about taking measures to place road signs limiting speed and to place a stationary automated means of controlling the speed of road I-4 at a intersection for the village of Petko Slaveykov and the village of Ryahovtsi. Dear Minister, I would like to introduce you to the statistics of the last four years on how many road accidents have occurred on these sections, and the last crash was last year during the summer, which unfortunately ended with a fatal end. These two villages are one of the largest villages in Sevlievo municipality and throughout the day, early in the morning and late in the evening, traveling people to work. As is known, in the municipality of Sevlievo, when spring or autumn comes, we are famous for the fact that there is a very thick fog and these areas become even more frightening for road accidents. Mr. Minister, spring is coming and the thick fog has already begun to appear around the branches. In this regard, my question to you is: what action will you take as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for putting signs limiting speed and putting a stationary automated speed control tool due to the frequent accidents with deaths in the section of the road I-4 "crossroad" for the village of Ryahovtsi, and placing signs limiting speed in a section of the road I-4 "crossroad" for the village of Petko Slaveykov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u149	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Weyselov, according to data from the Ministry of Interior, which the Road Infrastructure Agency is located in, the section in the area of the intersection of road I-4 Mikre "round the road Sevlievo" at 77 km, right, for the village of Ryahovtsi is not a section with the concentration of road crashes between 2015 and 2020. In November 2021, road safety and design experts at the Agency and the Regional Road Management One of them is the intersection for the village of Ryahovtsi. Experts have indicated actions that need to be taken to increase road safety. In view of the intersection for the village of Ryahovtsi, an intensive movement of vehicles was found that deviated from road I-4 to the village or came from the village to the main road. Given the intensity of movement along the first-class path, as well as the problems identified, the recommendations of the experts are as follows: First, to introduce a speed limit in the section from road I-4 to 60 km per hour; to install road signs B26 Secondly, consider the possibility of extending the waiting zone of the turning left towards the village of Ryahovtsi. Third, to recover the compromised G7 plates, the pointing arrow; to replace the distorted pillars of the signs; to restore the missing signs in the islands; to restore the road markings........................................................................................................ As a result of the prescriptions, the Road Infrastructure Agency has asked the road support company for the district to prepare a project to change the permanent movement organization in which all the activities described are to be placed. The project has been drawn up. It is transmitted and is agreed by the Road Infrastructure Agency. Currently it is provided for coordination by the OD of the Ministry of Interior of Gabrovo, and its final return and transmission to API. The implementation of the measures provided for in the project will then be undertaken to increase traffic safety. The section at the intersection of road I-4 for the village of Petko Slaveykov has not been identified as a section with the concentration of road crashes. According to the current project for the organisation of traffic at the intersection, no speed limitation is provided. Upon completion of the winter season, an examination will be carried out by experts and, if necessary, activities will be planned to increase road safety. As for any change in the organisation of the movement, design documentation must be drawn up, established need to introduce a speed limit in the area of the intersection and complement the signal, the Agency will entrust the design of a project to change the organisation of the movement and for the intersection of road I-4 to the village of Petko Slaveykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I just wanted to ask you again what deadline they will be placed on, because spring is approaching and indeed the visibility there is reduced. I understand there is a project, but what time will these road signs be placed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u152	Thank you. It's a hole. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Weyselov! As I said, the project must be approved by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. As soon as it is returned, it will be assigned to the company that supports the road anyway, i.e. these are contracts that are under ongoing repair and maintenance and will accordingly carry out the repair work for which the season is actually coming, but I cannot know when it will return from the Ministry of Interior's agreed technical project.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u154	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Asked by MP Krum Zarkov about government policy regarding the organisation of the management of floor property. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. You have three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u155	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister. The law on the management of floor property governs public relations relating to the management of common parts of buildings under floor ownership, as well as the rights and obligations of owners, users and residents of independent sites or parts thereof. §12 of its Transitional and Final Provisions entrust the implementation of this Law to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Quite understandable, given the fact that this law directly affects the homes and lives of everyone, if not almost all Bulgarian citizens, it is the subject of an ongoing debate in society. In early 2019, your predecessors at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works initiated a public discussion on changes that would lead to better maintenance of the building fund and the introduction of control for persons providing professional management services on floor property. Dozens of organizations and hundreds of citizens took part in the discussion, there are still traces of it on the relevant sites, but there was no result and the Law remained in its current form. However, if we review the opinions and proposals expressed by various associations and citizens, we see that there are serious difficulties in implementing the Law, which create constant tensions between the neighbours and hinder the maintenance of the common parts and the building fund. On the other hand, the provided by art. 19th para. 8 of the Law an opportunity to look for persons outside the joint ownership, who will perform the service "house manager" has created a market for the so-called professional managers, through which serious means pass and whose possible misconception may have severe consequences for both co-owners and fiscians. Many other issues related to the balance between the rights and obligations of owners, users and residents, the uninhabited dwellings located in different buildings, the possibility of interference of local authorities and others are also raised. In this regard, Dear Minister, it is also my question to introduce us to the actions and policies planned by you and your ministry regarding the organisation of the management of floor property.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u156	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I will not hide that you are raising an extremely serious question, because now the current Law on Floor Property Management has obviously become obsolete, and obviously its norms are causing mixed problems as you have pointed out that, for example, this market, which has developed itself, of the professional managers, is actually unregulated. There are no regulated things, such as: what account is the people's money on, what happens if this manager just drags down floor co-owners, etc., and in the opposite direction, that at the moment many wonderful properties that were built with the relevant common infrastructure, I talk mainly about seaside resorts, where they are with pools, with gardens, with trees, with places for children to play, etc., and at the moment this thing is self-destructing because either the owners are the so-called absent owners, or because of non-payment, which is also a serious problem, that is, the non-paying neighbours are largely stopping those who pay to maintain the common parts. That is why, as soon as I arrived, we started a conversation with the branch organizations, but until less than a month ago, I still had no deputy minister to answer these questions. One already exists and he created a new working group that, together with the branch organizations, will start working on a full renovation of the Law on Floor Property Management. Otherwise, as you have pointed out, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has recognised this need to make serious changes to the Law on Floor Property Management. As early as 2019, a broad public debate has been launched regarding the implementation of this law, as well as proposals for amending the texts of the same law, which resulted in about 700 proposals already, but for reasons unknown to me, the work has subsided and I practically found it frozen. By analyzing the proposals made by citizens and organizations, what stands out the most seriously. Firstly, regulation of the activities of so-called professional managers in view of the need to end the vicious practice in which citizens suffer damage as a result of poor services. Secondly, there is the need to create a mechanism for the collection of unpaid fees from unscrupulous in quotes neighbors, including for buildings whose owners do not inhabit the so-called uninhabited apartments in the building. Thirdly, strengthening control by local authorities, which is virtually absent at the moment. As a result of the activities of the working groups, in dialogue with the professional branch organizations, a draft is prepared to amend the Law on the Management of Floor Property, and separately in the preparation of the Project for the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to support the realization of the investment for the renovation of the multi-family residential buildings and the need to amend the Law on Construction of Floor Property, which is listed in the Draft Plan as reform, facilitate and increase the efficiency of investments in energy efficiency of multi-family residential buildings, and it provides: Firstly, to resolve barriers to investment for energy efficiency in multi-family residential buildings. Secondly, regulate the professional management of floor property in multi-family residential buildings, thereby improving the control of companies carrying out this activity. Thirdly, to create a legal opportunity to establish a bank account on the floor property for funds collected for management and ongoing support not only for the maintenance of the fund The bank account shall also be in the name of the property and not of the natural person and shall facilitate the application for collective loans. The project prepared within these working groups is recognized as a basis in the preparation of a reform, facilitating and increasing the efficiency of investments in energy efficiency of multifamily residential buildings. Taking into account the need for upgrades, the MRRB formed an interdepartmental working group that took place at the end of last month, whose functions are to support the process of implementation of the reform in the deadlines provided for in the NPP project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for further questions. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Because there are also many questions, and because I am satisfied with your answer, I will merge my attitude and the supplementary questions into one to save parliamentary time. I'll tell you, dear Minister, why all the work that has been done has gone nowhere. Because the process and the question is extremely complex. He's got a lot of opposing interests in him. As we have already said, they are involved with an objective factor, such as the leaving of many Bulgarian citizens on the territory of the country and the emptying of homes after them, subjective factors and neighbours that stop the organization of others, but also the state as government in the face of the local authorities, to which people turn when they can no longer solve their problems themselves, and who do not have the opportunity to help them. All this makes this debate extremely complex, and I want to encourage you in your efforts to lead it, to step on what has been achieved so far in order to move forward. Because very often in Bulgaria and here there is talk of reforms. Some of them are very media-spoken, but this will affect practically every Bulgarian citizen and will change radically and the way our cities look. So thank you for your answer. I am pleased that it is on the agenda in your office's head office and you can count on our support for solving the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u160	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Ivanov on the repair of Republican road III-5503 [[Bolar's branch, Boyadzhik]] on the territory of the municipality of Tundja. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, happy holiday to all Bulgarian ladies! Dear Minister, my question is related to the Republican road III-5503 At the beginning of 2021 we started and preventive repair was carried out of a section from the village of Boyadzhik to the branch for the village of Gulabintsi, but after the inauguration of the caretaker government this priority for Yambol district and for the residents of the villages of Bolyarsko and Boyadzhik was suspended. After the weekly meetings we have with the villagers, they insist that the renovation, which began in 2021, should be continued because this is one of the main sections to be passed for TPP Maritza east and for Mini Maritsa east. I sincerely hope that we will get answers from you what is the view of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for continuing the repair of Republican road III-5503, especially between the villages of Bolyarsko and Bojadzhik, because this is one of the toughest crossing sections as part of this republican road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov. Republican Road III-5503 Zlatari He makes the shortest connection with the town of Nova Zagora and the interior of the country. At the end of 2002, road ownership was changed from municipal to republican third-class. The route is in an unsatisfactory operating condition to ensure traffic safety. In 2021, repair activities were carried out through the current maintenance in an area of 3,324 km long. In the project of the Investment Programme of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, it is proposed and envisaged in 2022 to announce a public procurement for the construction of a technical project for major repairs about 15 km from road III-5503, including the Boyadzhik section. In the case of finished design documentation, open competition procedures for the selection of a builder and construction supervision for the main repair of the third-class road can be announced. Until repair activities start on route III-5503, it will be cared for through the ongoing maintenance program. It is planned that during this year a current repair will be carried out 6 km from the third-class road in the section of Bolyarsko siyadzhik from km 22+300 to km 28+300. The aim is to ensure the safety of the movement until the start of the main repair of the route, which may be delayed, depends on the appeals, we cannot give time here, so we foresee something that will save the situation. The activities will include groundwork, repair of asphalt concrete flooring, laying new asphalt layers, repair of equipment, removal of excess road vegetation, repair of restrictive systems, laying of horizontal marking and restoration of vertical signalling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u164	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For your reply, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, it is clear that the failure of those employed in the part of the service is as they rejected this repair section in 2021, so they also rejected the main road I-7, which was completed on 12 May, so that you are now required in 2022 in your programme... and in the information provided on the website of the Road Infrastructure Agency......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here I would like a clarification and to congratulate you on what you have done, because the 7-month talk of those who have been assigned how on-going repair and maintenance a vicious practice, you disprove with one decision to continue improving the road infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. We see two more sections of the Yambol district that have been submitted to you. It is clear that you cannot travel all roads and in such a short time as Minister, but I will recommend something before I ask you the next question about Republican Road III-5503. Your program for 2022 on current repair and maintenance, as well as on the site, includes the northern ring road of Yambol, III-5303. I don't know who, how or why he turned it on. Yes, there is only the need to repair the facility over the Tunja River. You can send a team after all from the Roads Agency or from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to not trust the locals who offer it to you, as I doubt there are other interests. The next time you are offered, and the continuation of the repair is taken out, this is the village of Bolyarsko, from the village of Roza, a kilometer before the village of Rosa to the village of Meden Kladen. Alive and well, the department manager wants to clear his way to his village. Yes, there is a need to fix the road of a kilometer and a half before the village of Rosa if you want, save, and local repairs between the village of Rosa and the village of Botevo. This needs to be done on this road on the territory of Yambol. And as for Bolyarski, I sincerely hope for your actions and call you at least in this section, which is before the village to Bojadjik, before Bolyarsko this year, to make a preventive repair so that people can travel calmly and safely, as traffic increases by every passing day and eventually you find an extremely difficult legacy from those employed, as these are the roads that could be carried out 2021, thanks to their incompetence and failure you have to provide resources, although the contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance of road companies for the Republican road network expire. We hope that there will be no appeals, because if we enter into some appeals, we are aware that at least by September-October, these companies cannot work and people will move on roads that need repair.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u166	More than a minute, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u167	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, once again, I call on you: pay attention to the sections that really need to do preventive repairs. Once again, I congratulate you for continuing your work on ongoing repairs and maintenance contracts, which are also clear for active politicians, are not a vicious practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? No. The next question is from the MP Ilin Dimitrov I do not see him in the room. Angel Georgiev? And he's not in the gym. Mr. Krastev, the question is about the beginning in 2021 of a complete renovation of the Republican road III-134 Byala Slatina. Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, please answer me: will this year be completed in the spring of 2021 a complete repair of Republican road III- 134 Byala Slatina The state of the road sections, already nearly a year in repair and bypass, has created significant inconveniences for passing vehicles, and is also a prerequisite for accidents with material damage. Those who live all along the road are particularly worried about the damaged road cover within the settlements, the result of the renovation, are alive interested, as well as looking forward to your response and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u170	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Krastev! In 2021 repair works were started 38 kilometers from Republican Road III-134, Byala Slatina 65% of the planned activities are implemented in the section from km 0 to km 38. Outside the characteristics of the settlements Byala Slatina, Popitsa, Birkachevo, Vranjak, Gabare, Drashan, Kameno pole and Gorna Beshovitsa was carried out profiling and filling of banquets, pre-passing with a recycler, a pile of crushed stone, laying of domesticized crushed stone and non-solid asphalt concrete, cleaning the road space of vegetation and shaping the crowns of trees. Asphalt layers are not only placed in the section between Drashan and Kameno Pole. The repair of the third-class section is carried out through the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The value of the approved job assignment under the technology project is 29 million. 161,000. 682,48 leva. with VAT. Currently, as we are in winter maintenance mode of the Republican Road Network, all ongoing repair and maintenance activities, including on road III-134, have been suspended. After the winter is over, which is expected to be traditionally on March 15th, unless there are heavy snowfalls, then it is postponed, the works of the site will be resumed. The implementation period for the activities is extended until 30 June. By letter No 53-00-12-399 of 26.11.2021. In fact, around these October and November dates, all agreements, so-called TRP agreements, with contractors, have been concluded and are postponed by a final date of 30 June 2022. According to the API agreement and the road support company, the site must be completed within time or in the event of the failure of the contractor to secure it. The profile of the earth's trenches, the construction of the lined trenches is to be carried out, but most importantly, the asphalt flooring is to be completed in the section between the villages of Drashan and Kameno pole and the repaired road will be with a whole new marking, restrictive systems and road signs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u172	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Krastev, would you like a line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I will pay attention to you to follow the process as well as to us as MPs from Vratsa region. I believe that what has been asked in the question itself will be correctly done, especially the sections that concern settlements. I am talking about the village of Popitsa, the village of Birkachevo, the village of Vranjak, the village of Gabare, the village of Drashan, Kameno pole and Gorna Besovitsa itself, which is the end point of Republican road III-134. I believe it will happen on the set date, and I hope everything will be all right by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u174	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you don't want to do that, do you? No. Mr. Angel Georgiev. You are welcome to develop your question about the construction of transport connections from highways to nearby settlements.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Karadjov! Is there a current study and intention to build and implement transport connections from highway roads to nearby settlements where there is no direct access from the highways themselves? As an example, I can give the village Malo Konare, Pazardzhisko, which is one of the largest not only in Pazardjisko, but even in the region of Pazardjik and Plovdiv, the village has a population of nearly 4,000 inhabitants, located right next to the highway itself, but has no direct access to it. When we want to go to this settlement, we must either go through Pazardzhik and accordingly load the road arteries in Pazardzhik towards Plovdiv or, if we are going to Sofia, we must go through the nearby village of Tsalapitsa, where we also load the movement inside the settlement. If such a transport connection is built, this will also help in future repairs, say, if the transport link is repaired through the village of Tsalapitsa instead of being busy traffic, traffic jams and inconveniences.... will be able to use the alternative link to the village of Malo Konare, which, as I said, is one of the biggest in the region. I am setting it as an example and I want to ask: are there such studies and not only for this village, but also for many other settlements? Do you intend to make more transport connections to nearby settlements that are up to major road arteries for the convenience of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u176	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Georgiev! The location of the road nodes along the route of the highway is selected after in-depth technical and economic analyses according to different indicators, the main of which are: the intensity of traffic along the road crossing the highway, and the directions sought by drivers and others. In addition, for the construction of a new road link, account should be taken of the investment intentions of the municipality itself, which must initiate joint actions to build a future infrastructure site on a motorway route. Until now, the Road Infrastructure Agency has not received such a proposal from the population quoted by you, and so far only two municipalities have submitted such requests. One is the construction of a road node type "Daztetelina" of the highway "Hemus" when crossing by road VAR-2021 from road I-2, Ignatievo. For the implementation of this project in September 2018, the Agency and the Municipality of Aksakovo have concluded a dispute protocol for joint financing of the project. In 2019 it was made and approved by the Mayor of Aksakovo Municipality and agreed by the Agency for a technical project. So after the technical project, procedures under the Public Procurement Act and the relevant construction and repair works can be carried out. The other similar node, which is initiated, is a road node Watering at km 298+600 on the highway of Trakiya. An agreement between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Straldzha was concluded for the implementation of the site in 2021, starting co-ordination procedures with the Ministry of Environment and Water for the investment proposal for the construction of the road node. The investment programme of API for this year also includes the construction of a road node Kermen at approximately km 261+408 at the highway of Trakia. By the middle of the year we will announce the contract for the construction of a technical project for construction of the road node. The indicative value of design works and copyright supervision is about 180 thousand. BGN, as these funds are provided for in the API Programme. With regard to the relationship that you have quoted, it should go exactly the same way with proposals from the municipality concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u178	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Would you like a line, Mr. Georgiev? No. The next question is from the National Representative Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova on the implementation of a contract................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Here you are, Mrs. Mostrova, you have the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u179	Dear Minister, I will ask you a question about half a billion leva: on 11 February 2022, in response to my question the Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov provided us with information about the stage at which the implementation of a contract is located Minister Sandov's reply raises questions about the implementation of the project for nearly half a billion leva in Burgas region and about a serious delay in its implementation, for failure to comply with the term of the contract. The Ministry of Transport is the sole owner of the capital of the Ministry of Transport and Sewerage. The office of your management exercises the rights of ownership in the Water and Water Department of Burgas, and because of the public importance of the Project concerning one of the biggest districts in the country, the current criminal procedure by Brussels against the state for urban treatment plants and the great financial resource, and the only 4% of this resource paid in the middle of the period for its implementation and the remaining two years for the implementation of the project, I want you to provide me with information on the following: what legal action has the Ministry taken in relation to the circumstances set out above, related to the delay of the implementation under contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Mostrova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mostrova, Water Supply and Sewerage, Burgas has a grant agreement with the Managing Authority Operational Program "Environment" 2014 "2020" for the realization of the Integrated Water Project for Burgas District, which will make a reconstruction of the water supply and treatment plants for drinking and waste water, will replace the depreciated water networks in the settlements, new sewage treatment plants and a new water network will be built. In the process of assessing the integrated water project for the Burgas Region, the European Commission, in accordance with the requirements of the Implementing Regulation and the rules for the implementation of this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, has received observations and questions that have focused on the procedures carried out to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment and to assess the likely degree of negative impact on protected areas of Natura 2000 and the lack of specific conservation objectives of protected areas and disadvantages in the assessment of cumulative impacts. As a result, the services of the European Commission require the establishment of specific conservation objectives for the protected areas affected by the project, carrying out an appropriate assessment based on the established specific conservation objectives for those areas and carrying out an assessment of the cumulative impacts of the project. Due to the importance of the project and taking into account the fact that the process of developing and approving specific environmental objectives is longer than the deadline for providing a response to the Commission, it is proposed that the project activities be implemented in two stages. The first stage is for sites that will be realized only outside elements of the Natura 2000 network or within urbanized territories and settlements. The project and all its elements were assessed in the procedure carried out to assess the need for an environmental impact assessment, within which the assessment of the likely degree of negative impact on the Natura 2000 sites was carried out. The second stage is for sites which fall partly or entirely into 21 protected areas of the Natura 2000 network and the implementation of which will start after the approval of the specific conservation objectives at the level of the protected area and the implementation of procedures is under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act. On 4 March this year, the Commission issued Decision No 1551 approving the financial contribution to the implementation of the first stage of the project and amounted to 145 million. Seven hundred and BGN 799,66. In order to ensure the timely implementation and completion of the project during the overall implementation period, and this is December 2023, and to support the development and approval process of specific and detailed conservation objectives that are affected by the activities of the By signing the Memorandum, the Ministry of Environment and Water also undertook to use all the products and results of the study in the final determination of the specific conservation objectives in the above protected areas. Five engineering contracts and three FIDIC supervision contracts have been concluded at present. The construction of a site for reconstruction of the water supply network of the district of Medden Rudnik is under way. I would like to assure you that despite the long duration of the process of development and coordination of the specific conservation objectives, Burgas has taken all necessary steps to implement the project in due time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u182	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. A line? You don't want to, Mrs. Mostrova, that's fine. Let's move on to the next question. It is again Mrs. Mostrova's regarding the implementation of a contract and the designation of the contractor of construction works for the site Here you are, Mrs. Mostrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u183	Dear Minister, on 21 October 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency signed a contract for the award of a public contract for construction of an object with subject: the designation of a contractor for construction works for the site of Burgas from km 230 on the road I-9 Sarafovo Burgas to km 493 on the road I-6 Wind Burgas and local courses. As a performer has been selected "Patstroy Burgas" Ltd. The deadline for implementation of the construction works is 18 months and starts from the date of the start of the construction. On 12 July 2021, an additional agreement was signed to the contract by which the parties to the contract agree that the contractor of the contract will be the company "Putstroy VDH" EAD due to the transformation of the company "Putstroy Burgas" Ltd. through a change of legal form in the company "Putstroy VDH" EAD, which is a shareholder company for the entire property, the rights and obligations and the activities of the transformation company in "Putstroy Burgas" Ltd., which is terminated without liquidation and the parties to the supplementary agreement consider that this does not lead to circumvention of the law. At the moment "Patstroy VDH" EAD is a contractor under this contract. The total length of the tour is 4.7 km "about 5 km," and under the contract it will be built for 57 million. lv. with VAT. The funds for the construction of the nearly fivekm segment come from the Republican budget, and at the end of July 2020. The Council of Ministers granted 12.9 million. lv. for the construction of the road, which had to be ensured by the end of 2019, but this did not happen. In order not to lose the money, they are transferred to the artist's letter of credit. The section will have two lanes separated by a medium dividing strip, with two lanes to move in the direction and banquets, as well as local sails. The connection of the new route to the existing road network will take place through four road nodes. After all, the new 4.7 km road will cost a total of 57 million. lv. with VAT, which means that the price per kilometre of new road will be 12 million. lv. After three months the new tourist season and even during the Easter holidays the traffic from Sofia to Sunny Beach and the South Black Sea coast will increase and at the same time the end of the implementation of this contract will take place. In this regard, I would like to ask you: is there a risk of non-compliance with the contract within the prescribed time limit? Are the activities awarded and are there any activities for which construction permits have not yet been issued and how will these obstacles be overcome for the timely implementation of the contract and putting it into service by the beginning of the summer tourist season 2022, which is the end of the implementation of that contract? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Mostrova. Mr. Karadjov, you have the opportunity to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mostova, as you have already noted, the construction of the northern bypass of Burgas started in the beginning of 2021, and with the construction of this route the transit traffic that comes from Varna on the I-9 Sarafovo road Burgas and continues on the road I-6 Sofia This will increase the safety of the movement for travelers from West and Northern Bulgaria, avoiding entry into the city. The section will have two lanes separated by a medium dividing strip, with two lanes to move in the direction and with banquets, as well as local sails. The connection of the new route to the existing road network will be made through four road nodes. The construction works carried out on this project are about 60%, and construction has been issued on a regular basis since 9 December 2020. In the process of work, infrastructure networks are also concerned for which additional building permits are required, which have not yet been issued, but we are in a procedure, such engineering networks being the reconstruction of the 20 kV electrical line in Gitarovo, the reconstruction of plumbing, the reconstruction of telecommunications cables and optical cables, the street lighting of these four engineering networks. In connection with the unsold building permits, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Burgas are working to complement the project documentation in full and the site is in construction, and despite the progress of the contract deadline and the difficulties encountered in issuing the permits for the adjacent engineering networks, the Agency is working mobilized. The aim is to complete the site in the possible technological time frame by making it possible to ensure safe passage through the summer tourist season to move in one direction, i.e. to use only two of the lanes to pass in the sections where there is an engineering or other infrastructure to complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Mostrova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u187	Thank you for your reply, but I would still like you to make some clarification, Mr. Minister. You said you were about to issue a building permit for construction of the electrical conduit, reconstruction of plumbing, reconstruction of optical cables and others. However, this means that construction works are currently being carried out without building permits, but tell me, what time do you commit to issuing these building permits and bringing all the building documentation into line with the requirements of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u188	Here you are, Mr. Karadjov. Your hole will be the answer to an additional question in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mostrova, construction works on these engineering networks are not carried out without permission for construction. Only road construction is carried out in the part of the road itself, and since it is a 4-band, affecting other engineering networks is actually only on one side of the road. This enables us to do exactly in this area the concern and make it possible to move only in one lane, that is, partially build the road, introduce a temporary movement organisation and thus ensure safe movement for the spring summer season when traffic increases sharply. In terms of time limits is also working quite intensively. Currently the reconstruction of the electricity line 20 kilovolts Gitarovo and the reconstruction of the water mains is coherent, as far as they are objects of national importance, i.e. they are coordinated with building permits in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, we really expect these projects to take place next week, we monitor them closely. I hope that we will have such a construction permit by mid-April, at maximum within a month. With regard to the reconstruction of optical cables and telecommunications connections, as well as street lighting. At this time we should have already had, had received a permit to build, but unfortunately, an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court lasted a little longer than expected. However, I expect that this case will be closed by the end of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. The question is from the MP Rumen Hristov on agreements drawn up by a working group in the composition: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the contracting entity of the contracts. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question relates to an agreement reached in the service cabinet, namely for the termination of the contracts currently in force for the repair and maintenance of Republican roads. This is happening, as we have just heard, after signing agreements drawn up by a working group in the composition: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the contracting entity of the contracts. On the basis of these agreements, the work of the repair of road sections carried out under existing contracts in the period May 2021. "October 2021, at the time of the office, I stress that it has been accepted by the contracting authority and the payment has been postponed to the middle of the next " 2022." With these agreements in force at that time, 30 TRP contracts are terminated following the expiry of winter maintenance 2021 and the API is free to conduct new procedures for selecting a contractor to maintain the Republican road network. However, there is no provision in the 2022 budget for the payment of these obligations by the State and, in particular, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The amount is about one and a half billion leva of total liabilities amounting to 2.3 billion, part of which are, however, deferred to 2023. According to the signed agreements, they are terminated when they fail to pay their debts, but interest is charged on the amounts due. Separately, the old contracts remain valid, which will hinder the procedures for the selection of new contractors. In this regard, my question is you, Minister, is: what steps does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take to implement the signed agreements in order to avoid payment of additional funds in the form of interest and, of course, the normal course of the new procedures under the Regional Development and Public Works Act for new contractors?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u192	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Karadjov, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, to the question of the current and current contracts for ongoing repair and maintenance, i.e. the entire ensemble of problems that are tied in a large node, can very hardly be answered within three minutes. Even what my colleagues have prepared for me is too short to explain its complexity. I'm going to try twice, obviously, now, and in a line, to explain this problem. In October and November last year the existing contracts at that time for ongoing repair and maintenance were terminated by the Road Infrastructure Agency. For each of these terminations there is a protocol from the Board of Directors of API and they are provided for different dates, so to speak, of termination of contracts, and the dates vary from April this year, even one date expired at the motorway of Struma, on 25 February, the rest are in April, in June and July. For the different areas of maintenance the time limit is different, I can't say why. The termination of these contracts took place on the basis of a really very large report previously prepared under the leadership of the Minister of Justice, the main one in this report is that there is an extension of the scope of the TRS contracts, i.e. these contracts were five years old, but for some reason they were concluded at the symbolic amount of 250 million. BGN, knowing that the normal maintenance of the Republican road network at its absolute minimum is about a billion billion and 200 million, as much as we have staked this year for this activity. So this 250 million is very overrated and actually the amount that you're quoting here is a billion and a half, it goes over 2.2 billion with unfinished jobs, so the big overshoot is the first argument to end it. The second argument for termination is the expansive extension, i.e., in addition to the fact that typical repairs have been carried out, such as the withdrawal of the first layer, or the second layer, of the bandage, i.e. the placing of the wearable layer of asphalt on top, which is ongoing work on current repairs, typical work on current repair and maintenance, and major repairs have been carried out. This is absolutely obvious and proven because for these repairs there are proper construction papers, but they have not been processed in the normal order intended for construction sites, but for major repairs, and they have not been granted construction permits. So, coming to the Ministry on 13 December, I find this very complicated node and the ticking clock that you mentioned was running out of time, and we can hardly rotate the entire turnover of public procurement for the TRP by June. Given that the budget law has not yet entered, that is, we cannot even formally announce such orders to date. I hope that tomorrow, with the entry into force, we will be able to proceed to this work. That's why your question about how to unravel this knot, and it will be complicated. To this end, an interdepartmental working group has been established to make a comprehensive revision and to identify the typical TRS activities and to which all their certificates have been verified and do not give rise to any dispute. This amount will be definitively paid out, and where there are major repairs, it is necessary to see how much work was awarded, since there was no competition award, there was no competition procedure, there is no way to know whether the prices achieved were at least market oriented. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This group will therefore carry out a detailed inspection, which will however take three months, such is the Commission's deadline. It may also be extended. I'll finish up in a minute, if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u194	Yes, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u195	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Indeed, the inheritance that has fallen on your back is heavy, but here you must look for, as you say, a cut of the knot in terms of the fact that the current repair must take place, the active season is approaching, on the one hand. On the other hand, I do not assume that companies that have performed even major repairs have not done so with their own initiative without any sanction on their part. From this point of view, I think that finding common points between them and between the State with a view to unleashing at least the possibility of holding new competitions and choosing new performers is very important. In that sense, what you are saying about creating a group to evaluate must be a path in the right direction. Good luck to you. I say again, this is indeed a legacy from the office, but you are carrying on your shoulders the heavy task of being Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u196	Here you go, Mr. Karadjov. You can finish your answer. I gave you a little more time, but you didn't get enough, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u197	Thank you for that. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, as I warned, the question is very complex, it is also difficult to explain because it is an extremely heavy legal braid. The contracts were really five years old. They were not due to expire until the following year... not 2022, but 2023. This would have been much easier, but we are in a situation where they are stopped and we need to act quickly. I'll even tell you something that hasn't been said so far, and it's something that I think will be positive news for the road sector. Since the Commission will take a long time to revise each of the certificates, and they are several hundred certificates in several hundred rows, provided that one revisioner can make a maximum of two certificates a day, that is a long time to come, so far I expect the Commission, by its protocol, to come up with a decision in which 129 million activities related to signs, marking, boards and so on, other things from the restrictive systems are reviewed, they are verified and do not give rise to any doubt, so that they will be definitely paid out. Again, this is the first time I've announced this. And secondly, given that it will take too long, it will be extremely difficult for companies to continue to meet such a large debt that is currently hampering them, indeed they continue to carry out ongoing maintenance and especially winter support, but they are starting to experience difficulties. We have many signals that are about to release people, and so to speak, some of the companies even declare insolvency, we have a political agreement to pay 50% of the remaining amount, or a sum of about 509 million additionally on these 129. Since you are asking about the mechanism, next week will most likely enter the Council of Ministers this whole amount, by decree of the Council of Ministers, as I have repeatedly stated, from the buffers in the budget will be provided and paid pro rata, i.e. corresponding to the amount due to each of the companies [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and then we will now wait for the Commission's decision to give us a reason for which firm exactly how much should be paid in final terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u198	Thanks for the answer. Let's move on to the next question. The question is from the MP Dimitar Mihaylov Tashev about further construction of sewerage to the ongoing implementation of major renovation of water pipes in the town of Ahtopol and Velika village. Mr. Tashev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u199	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the last week of February I visited the town of Ahtopol and the village of Velika, where there is currently a major renovation of water pipelines under an integrated water project for the district of Burgas, amounting to 459 million. lv. The main renovation of the plumbing runs from January 4th this year. The project "Integrating water project for Burgas" is prepared for the purpose of building infrastructure, which will achieve compliance with national and European legislation in the field of drinking water, waste water extraction and treatment and improving the efficiency of systems and facilities. The project activities aim to achieve compliance with the National Water Sector Management and Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through measures to build a water infrastructure. The designation of the specific sites of the water systems will contribute to achieving full compliance with the requirements of Directive 98/83/EC and Directive 91/271/EC. As a result of the analyses and studies carried out, the following measures were identified to be included in the project scope: reconstruction and rehabilitation of the existing plumbing structure; construction of new systems and facilities in 13 agglomerations with more than 10 thousand inhabitants, namely Burgas, Nessebar, Pomorie, Sozopol, Primorsko, Obzor, Aytos, Karnobat, Tsarevo, Kiten, Chernomorets, Sarafovo, Lozenets, as well as part of the separate territory served by the Water Supply and Sewerage. The project envisages reconstruction of 158 thousand. Two hundred and twenty-six miles of plumbing and twenty-two thousand. 147 km sewerage network, as well as construction of 6 thousand. 834 km of plumbing and 73,000. 154 kilometers of sewerage. In agglomeration Tsarevo is set to be reconstructed 3 thousand. 406 m from the plumbing network and 1944 m from the sewer network, as well as to build a new sewerage of 1337, 92 m. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Village of Velika is part of Tsarevo municipality. After talks on the ground with the project performers their plan is to repair only the plumbing, then the streets will be paved. They are not planning the construction of the sewers in the village of Velika, which means that at some point the newly planted roads in the village will be dug again. In this regard, please let me know if the sewers will be built in the village of Velika at this stage along with the plumbing and if not, please inform me if there is a design readiness for its construction and within what time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Tashev. Mr. Karadjov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tashev, the integrated water project for the district of Burgas is implemented by "VikiK" JSC Burgas as a beneficiary of the Operational Program "Environment". Under the terms of the financing programme, investment measures are to achieve compliance with European directives in the field of drinking and waste water in agglomerations of more than 10 thousand equivalent inhabitants. The village of Velika has a population of 90 inhabitants, which is why it does not fall within the scope of your project. In order to improve the water supply in the village of Velika, however, the Municipality of Tsarevo applied with its own project to the enterprise for management of the activities for environmental protection. We point out with the Law that the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year determines the total costs of the Ministry of Finance and validates the expenditure on policies and strategic operational objectives. The budget of the MRB shall finance sites and activities for the construction and reconstruction of public water supply and sewerage infrastructure, including the preparation of investment projects. For this purpose, municipalities or regional administration in the relevant area as owners of public infrastructure should provide the Ministry with specific information on the necessary funds, project readiness, the availability of building permit, tender procedures, contracts and others. The MRDP primarily finances sites to improve water supply in settlements. Currently, the three-year budget forecast does not provide funds for sewerage in small villages. With regard to the city of Ahtopol, investments to improve the water infrastructure are laid down in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability and are planned for construction of waste water treatment plant, sewage pump stations, collectors, new sections of the plumbing and sewerage network, as well as reconstruction of existing pipelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u202	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Tashev, you have an opportunity for a line. You don't have one. With this the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov were exhausted. Let's thank Mr. Karadjov for his participation and for his comprehensive answers. We move on to the questions asked to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Nikolay Denkov. The first question is from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev on the effective and balanced use of information technology and electronic resources, tailored to the age and development of children and students. Mr. Valchev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! We live in an age of saturation with electronic devices and penetrating digitalization, and the way of learning is changing. Forecasts are that by the end of this decade students, especially from the upper classes, will learn more from electronic resources than from textbooks. The transition to personalization of learning also implies more learning from electronic resources. Personalization implies better testing the educational difficulties of children through electronic systems and personally directing electronic lessons, tailored to the difficulties and deficits of each individual child. In this case, I also take the opportunity to welcome that the Ministry of Education continues to enhance the work of preparing an electronic platform with e-Learnings, all the topics and all the classes of e-Learning that will allow this transition to personalization of learning. On the other hand, there are alarming results from research on the negative impact of continuous use of electronic devices, especially in early childhood, on the development of the child's brain, cognitive and linguistic skills, mental health, motor activity and especially on the ability to concentrate children. This can be confirmed in conversations and educators in kindergartens who will tell you what are the differences between children who interact more with screens, more time, and those who do less. This challenges education systems to find a formula for efficient and balanced use of information technology and electronic resources in the educational process. This formula is different for different ages, so other countries have taken action to develop standards, policies for the effective use of information technology in schools and kindergartens. My specific question to you is: Will you take action in this direction? Will you arrange an expert discussion on the subject? Will you prepare such a policy? I'm using this case as a reference rather than as a question to you. A recommendation which I am making and regretting that I myself have not realized in sufficient time this need and have not organised the development of such a policy or standard. In fact, the word "standard" makes legal sense under the Preschool and School Education Act. I know that there is no such standard specifically written in the Law, but I still use the word as an equivalent set of rules. I believe this will be useful. One of the reasons I didn't do it is that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If you'll allow me to finish? ...I was waiting for the reference overview of the research prepared by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of all the research that has been published in the reference databases, about the impact of electronic devices on children at different ages. This is a problem faced by educational systems relatively recently. I would say that with the mass saturation of electronic devices, tablets and smartphones, for 10 years, and we already have the experience of continuous training in electronic environments, which also showed some of these deficits. The fact is that it has negatively affected both the psyche and the motor activity of the children. So when we discussed regulation in the Preschool and School Education Act for pre-school years, we only regulated for 30 minutes. Of course, there remains the challenge and how to get parents to dose the use of electronic devices from children and to allow them to use them primarily for educational needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u204	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Denkov, to answer the question asked. Mr. Valchev, you will have the opportunity to continue with the line because we have exceeded the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Valchev, in fact in the context of an exceptional epidemic environment, distance learning in electronic environment has enabled equal access to quality education for inclusion of every child and student, which is also laid down as a basic principle in the Law on preschool and school education. It is an indisputable fact that the new realities, dictated by exceptional circumstances, brought the role of information technology to the fore in the process of training and outlined new perspectives for autonomous learning, the results of which are mostly subject to individual personal efforts. In the practice of modern learning there is a broad-spectrum profile of various digital technologies, some of them emerging at the moment, such as: artificial intelligence; intelligent electronic guides based on dialogue; open data learning; learning through computer animation; online network training; virtual laboratories; electronic educational games; multisensory learning; learning through robots; inverted classroom; virtual and added reality; and others that appear at the moment. The contemporary approaches and technologies presented are constantly expanding and developing, which is one of the reasons why they are not yet standardised. Currently, within their autonomy, schools are developing rules and requirements for working in an electronic environment, tailored to the age characteristics, the school profile and the context of the environment, in view of the use of a variety of end-users in electronic training. This is another argument in support of the need for standardisation, as you point out. In modern educational practices, digital tools are mainly used by taking into account the age characteristics of children and students and the educational content. With the current state education standard.. Ordinance No 10 of 2017, on cognitive books, textbooks and study aids are also required for the e-execution of specific resources. The textbooks, textbooks and textbooks, both in terms of structure and content. In the process of developing policies related to the use of electronic resources, the Ministry of Education is based on scientific data and approaches in this area. In this sense, you know that in partnership with the Institute of Neurobiology, in October 2020 a study was conducted on the topic of the influence of modern technologies on cognitive abilities and the development of children from 3 to 11 years of age. At the same time, a national sociological survey has been carried out by the "Trend" Agency concerning the attitudes of the adult population regarding access to electronic devices for early childhood children. The results of these studies are presented at a conference organized by the Ministry on the influence of modern information technologies on cognitive abilities and the development of children from 3 to 11 years. On the specific issue you have raised, I believe that a discussion on the optimal balance in the use of digital devices, which takes into account the age characteristics and specifics of individual objects, would be useful and even necessary. Such a discussion should be carried out at several levels. Initially purely expert with the participation of specialists, including psychologists, doctors, teachers, scientists, who could outline the possible framework and come up with a proposal whether, how much and in what document for the purposes of the educational process to standardize the use of digital devices. After that, it could be possible to proceed with the development of recommendations to be subject to public consultation. [[the President signals that time has run out]] and be the basis for adopting a standard. The most appropriate period for holding such a discussion is after the end of the school year, so that the expert potential and the accumulated experience of the teachers can be used as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u206	Thank you, Mr. Denkov. Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u207	I thank you for your answer and for your awareness that this is an important problem, because, again, I tell you, it's relatively new, it's about 10 years we've been dealing with it, I think we're not ready enough as parents to ensure the balanced, effective use of information technology by children. Learning about information technology and learning through information technology is very important. One of the conferences organized during the Bulgarian Presidency was Digital creators against digital users. All children today, today's generation of students, will be digital users. The future division will be formed not between users and non-users, but between creators and users. And to make them users, we have to teach them to a greater extent in algorithming, artificial intelligence, modeling. So we introduced computer modeling into third and fourth grade, expand it to fifth and sixth and connect it to programming. But it itself requires more abstract thinking, abstract intelligence, something to which it is the use of information technology in early childhood that harms. That's why they say that concentration is the skill of the 21st century because of today's generation of children, students precisely because of the effective use of electronic devices they suffer the most from this skill, hence the ability to deepen, hence the results of mathematics. And look here, the sooner we make them users, the more we lose them as creators. There is no risk that in early childhood we deprive children of electronic devices, they will not develop digital skills. On the contrary, they'll develop them at a higher age very quickly. But there's a risk that all the other skills might get hurt. That is why this issue is so important, and the evidence is very sensitive to their language and cognitive skills in general, and physical, motor activity. So it is very important that we tell even the parents, I would say, even to scream: "Hide electronic devices in early childhood, start from 8, 9, 10 years gradually, mainly for learning, up to a few minutes or hours a day, so that we can find this balance. Because other studies show that children who develop a more harmonious mix of skills do better in life, have better personal development and professional realization, including children who exercise, engage in arts and so on. My appeal is for you to hear these words because I have had the opportunity to hear them either at scientific conferences or at the Council of Ministers, where the other ministers colleagues share this topic. So it is important this topic and I hope that you will really organise the discussion and it will have the result of a document recommendation, policy, standard, whatever you want to call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u208	You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Secretary. You're giving up. Thank you, you saved the time. We are going to ask the National Representative Elena Guncheva about the completion of the school year by students studying in distance learning in electronic environments and those with unacquired absences. Mrs. Guncheva, if you'd like to develop your question, you have the opportunity within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u209	Dear Madam Presidential, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, the conditions for the training of students from I to XII in state and municipal schools have been changed several times by your order. The conditions for attendance training, including testing the children, have been changed many times before going to school, and you have repeatedly said that if parents do not agree, you will not do so. In the beginning, the percentage of disagreements was one, then changed and finally, without even wanting the consent of the parents, you introduced the testing as a condition for attendance training of the students. According to your last order, students must do tests once a week for the COVID-19, and those who study remotely must submit a medical document for training in an electronic environment. According to parents and personal impressions, there are increased cases of students who do not attend classes because their parents refuse to undergo tests, and at the same time some of them cannot submit a medical document for training in an electronic environment as required by your order and guidelines. There are also many students who, in an electronic environment, do not attend classes and are absent. That is why my question is: how will students who have unacquitted absences complete the school year because of refusal of testing against CIVID-19 and not presenting a medical document for training in an electronic environment, and how will these students be tested for the completion of the school year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Denkov, please give your answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me note once again that the orders for testing and other health measures are introduced by order of the Minister of Health. I hope that at least the MPs will start to distinguish the functions that the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Health have. As far as the question is concerned. Distance learning in an electronic environment is a challenge for all participants in the educational process, including teachers, but the established organisation through the current regulations and the individual administrative acts issued also governs the specific cases of this distance learning. It is precisely such a specific case that students for whom no consent was expressed by parents for testing with non-invasive rapid antigen tests for COVID-19 and who do not have valid documents for vaccination, illness or examination. These students are also provided with an opportunity for distance learning in an electronic environment, and I would like to stress that when they participate in distance training, they are not absent because they are not present at school. In accordance with art. 24 of Ordinance 11 on the assessment of the results of the training of students the term and the annual evaluation shall be formed in accordance with the ratio defined in the curriculum between the current assessments of the oral, written and practical tests, including from the classroom or control work, and the participation of the student in the learning process, including work in class, performance of homework, performance of practical tasks, work on projects. The formation of the student's short-term grades, which is taught at a distance, is based on the rhythmic current tests carried out over the period in the systematic interaction of the teacher with the student in an electronic environment. These students are also given the opportunity to receive individual consultations and feedback on their progress with their teachers. There is no reason or reason for the closure of the term for these students to be difficult. If necessary, such students may appear individually at school, but outside the time of the other students' attendance learning process, without having to perform a non-invasive rapid antigen test or submit a document for vaccination, illness or examination. This is explicitly written in the National Operational Plan for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic approved by the Council of Ministers. Exams as an individual activity may also be carried out presently on the territory of the school and without applying the requirements for students' CIVID-19 studies, provided that they are conducted outside the time of the other students' attendance learning process. From what has been said so far, it is clear that for students who study remotely for refusal to test for COVID-19, but for some reason the number of their current tests is not sufficient to form a short-term assessment of a given subject, there are two options. First, they may, upon their consent, perform a single non-invasive rapid antigen test and be tested presently in a group in a group, for example for control or class work, and then continue to be trained non-existent in an electronic environment. Or, secondly, they may appear at an individual test school, for example for oral testing, outside the time of the other students' attendance, without having to test or submit a document for vaccination, illness or examination. For students whose absences for any reason exceed 25% of the study hours per individual subject, which does not allow for a short-term evaluation, a mid-term evaluation shall be organised and conducted. As I have already mentioned, in the National Operational Plan for dealing with the pandemic, it is laid down that such individual activities as the examinations can be carried out presently on the territory of the school and without applying the requirements for testing for the COVID-19 or for the presence of a green certificate if they are carried out outside the time of the presence process of the other students. Finally, I would like to add that, in individual cases, at the assessment of the teacher and with the agreement of the management of the school students whose health condition does not allow attendance in school, may be tested in writing and remotely in an electronic environment, but if conditions are provided for objectively conducting the study, the self-contained in the room and the continuously included microphone and camera are provided. In the event of a technical or other problem preventing an objective assessment, no assessment shall be made. So regardless of the various possible hypotheses that I explained, there is no danger that students may not finish the school year because of the inability to be tested or evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u212	Thank you, Mr. Denkov. Mrs. Guncheva, you have the opportunity to ask two supplementary questions within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u213	Dear Minister Denkov, I have two supplementary questions. The first is what is the quality of educating students in an electronic environment who can't get quality education in a second year in a row? And my second question is: when will you stop making fun of Bulgarian education and Bulgarian students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u215	Thank you. In terms of quality, it is what can be provided under the relevant conditions. For the information of the MPs, in the last wave we had 12 thousand students at that age who were officially sick every week in Bulgaria. Some of them were going into the hospital, and we've got worse cases. So training from an electronic environment is an activity that has been used around the world, including in Bulgaria, to provide training, and there were countries that closed schools and did not even provide this training during previous periods. So quality is what can be provided under these conditions. As for the question of whether... what was it, making fun of education, that question is probably about someone else and it's not about me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u216	Thank you. Mrs. Guncheva, you have the opportunity to treat me. You're giving up. We are moving on to the next issue from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev on policies for establishing a plan-acceptance at a high school stage of education. Mr. Valchev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u217	Dear Minister, in the last decades until 2017, the admissions in the classes of professional training decreased gradually, as a percentage of the total admissions, the classes overall decreased. These were usually classes that weren't filled. That was the reason for the reduction. In fact, the main reason is that during the years of transition and because of the business structure, vocational education lost demand, lost reputation. We did a study, you probably think of it, 2015, which showed that most of the parents do not believe that only their children with professional education will have full employment and life realization. On the other hand, the last 10 years, 15 even, the sectors with the highest growth in added value and exports are precisely the technological industries. These are information technologies, machine-building, mechatronics, electricians - these are also the sectors with the highest wage growth. Here we are adding information technologies the sector with the highest growth and the highest increase in remuneration in recent years, the sector, which not only holds more children in Bulgaria, but also the last years we have net internal migration. More IT specialists have returned to Bulgaria than have left the country. One of the tools of the Ministry of Education to support socio-economic development is precisely the plan the reception and that is why we have launched a restructuring policy in 2017. It is expressed in increasing the percentage of admission in professional classes, it was increased from 48 to 58 to 59 percent. The percentage of the classes of profiles and professions related to mathematics, technique and natural sciences, which we abbreviate to the English language abbreviation, were also increased from 49 to nearly 60% and the admission in classes and profiles related to information technology, which were increased from 6 to 11%. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] However, I am receiving reports that this year professional classes are being closed, including those in dual training and specialties with expected future shortages. Specialties with expected future shortages are those who have the biggest expected rift, a deficit between demand and supply on the labour market. The most people retire in the respective profession, but at least students learn, on the other hand. We encouraged them as much as possible with scholarships, with increased reception and with additional funds of professional high schools. My specific question is: this year have you set the target values of regional governments in terms of accepting how many to be in STEM profiles and professions, how many to be in professional classes, how many to be in the general reception, so as not to allow what happened previous years to be closed down above all of professional classes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u218	Thank you, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u219	So did you continue politics, or did you end it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u220	Mr. Denkov, you have an opportunity to answer. Mr. Valchev, you have the opportunity to further your question in the line because we are exceeding the time for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u221	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the state-acceptance plan in grade VIII, the planning of the number of classes is in line with the Ministry's established approach to closely linking planning activities to the number of students graduating from the 7th grade and to the classes implemented in the previous year. With regard to the additional state admission in the XI class, it should be borne in mind that students graduating from X class prefer to sign up for vacancys and only a small part choose classes from the additional state acceptance plan. Modern trends require education to enable training in professions that are widely applied. From this point of view, learning a foreign language is rather a means, and therefore it must be combined with other aspects of training that enable the development of vocational education as well. In order to provide staff on the labour market and on the basis of the state admission for each area for the academic year 2022 and 2023, estimated target values of the admission places of students in vocational schools and in vocational courses, estimated target values of admission in STEM profiles and professions, as well as the maximum number of classes in VIII for each area, have been established. The interest is oriented not only towards a smooth increase in the percentage of students in professional classes, but also towards STEM profiles and technical professions. Based on what has been said so far, I can define the following basic policies, which are set out in the plan, adopted for 2022 and 2023. First, continuing the planning of the state plan acceptance based on set target values, and in areas where there is a ratio between profiled and professional classes above 50% in favour of vocational training, the target value will be maintained. In areas where the ratio between profiled and professional classes is below 50%, the target value will increase by 2 points and this is set out in the plan. Secondly, the continuing trend for increasing the share of classes and the number of students in STEM profiles and professions will be linked to the planning and realization of STEM profiles and professions with the relevant STEM centres that we will develop. The interest in STEM training is very intense and this process goes without any particular problems. Third, planning the state-acceptance plan after the 7th grade to allow further education of students from the united schools after the X class in the same or in a close profession or profile. And fourthly, planning the additional state-run reception in the direction of full student coverage and maintaining the ratio between profiled and professional classes in favour of vocational training. With regard to the dual form, the specific question that you have asked is only classes for which the business involved in the relevant training has given up for various economic reasons, that is, we have no way out in this case, but new classes are also found, as other companies are also interested in this form of training. To conclude, I would like to say that while basic and key competences are formed with the curriculums in all subjects and modules, technical and digital skills are primarily built through the profiled and professional training and should therefore be leading in the planning of the state acceptance plan. Such are the profiles software and hardware sciences, mathematical, natural, as well as professions and specialties from professional directions related to leading sectors of the national economy, such as electronics, electrical engineering, automotive, machine building, IT industry and others. The development of new plans and programs provides an opportunity to study occupations on type curriculums with intensive and extended learning in a foreign language so as to combine the two types of training. This allows learning a foreign language at the same time as mastering the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u222	Thank you. Mr. Valchev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased to hear that this policy continues to seek balance. Where professional classes are above 50%, no further increase is sought. Maybe 50% is low, but anyway you've already put it up for this year, think about it for next year. The fact is that many areas have reached the limit of increasing the percentage of vocational education classes. Take special care of Sofia, in fact the great distortion is in Sofia. It may have happened in the last two and a half decades. Most of the secondary schools offer mainly language classes. If you do an analysis, you will probably find the same thing that I found that in no profile, no professional direction we do not have an unjustified high number of students except the language profile. I would say that this is because of the irrational belief of parents, that with a language profile children will have a better educational and life realization further. But as you stressed, today life, the professions of the future will require much more integrated skills, you can learn a profession, you can learn another profile with an intensive or extended study of another language, so it is not necessary for individuals to study in a language profile. Those with high educational results after the 7th grade will not likely go to the professional high school of mechanics, but would sign up in profiles and professions related to information technology, which is very important for our development from now on as a country, as an economy. So it is important to continue this policy of restructuring the adoption. I know that it meets resistance because individual schools in local communities tend to plan, first and foremost, to determine the reception depending on the demand of parents. But here comes the role of the Ministry, which should take into account the public interest, the interest of social economic development, to come into some contradiction, if necessary, with this demand by local communities and parents, to explain to parents what is better for the future development of children. Because, again, I say that part of the demand for education contains an element of irrationality and these are two different markets, the demand for the market for education, on the other hand, the demand for the labour market. Accordingly, the Ministry's role is to link the two markets with the instruments it has: reception plan, scholarships, financing, a specialty with expected future shortages and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u224	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. The next question is again by the National Representative Krasimir Valchev on the policy regarding the network of universities and professional directions. Mr. Valchev, one recommendation, make your questions as questions, you will have more time to discuss and more time to discuss.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u225	Yes, in fact, more of a policy issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u226	Because they're generalized.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u227	They're not on specific current topics. Dear Minister, the specific questions are: what policy will you conduct with regard to the network of higher schools and professional directions. Will you propose a merger and infusion of higher schools? Will you propose regulation in the Law on Higher Education of consortiums of higher schools or confederates in order to share resources and common programs from university networks? Will you continue the policy of optimizing the profile structure of state universities? You know that the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education 2030 contains a concept of integration of higher schools into networks, integration and cooperation in networks. Some of the questions have already been answered by you in the public domain. In no case do I say that there is no need for integration and consolidation of the network of higher schools, but it is very important how it will be done. Whether it will be done through the loss of legal personality on the part of higher schools, or whether integration will be sought within larger associations while maintaining their independence. This is important to hear from you. And the second sub-question is related to the policy in which you have also participated in the formulation phase, launching and restructuring of the profile of higher schools, optimizing the profile structure, directing it to strong professional directions. Because it is a fact that three decades ago a pretty final model of academic self-government was regulated, which allowed higher schools to even define their own profile structure. As a result, a large number of them created, found training "Professional courses" that are away from their main profile. Then the complex assessment of quality and realization showed that it is they who are the professional directions with lower quality and lower realization. The last five years the reception has been reset in nearly 30 such professional directions, the admission in social, economic and legal sciences has been reduced, and has therefore been stimulated in engineering, agrarian and environmental mathematical sciences. This is my second question: will you continue with this policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u228	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mr. Denkov, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u229	Dear Mr. Valchev, The Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria contains a specific Objective 10: The existing network of universities is highly fragmented and includes a number of very small state universities. During this academic year 13 of them have less than 2000 students, in five they are even under 1,000 students, and at the very least they train 343 students. A number of universities announce numerous rankings each year and yet they find it difficult to fill or fail at all to fill the openings. During the academic 2021 there are universities that have implemented only about 60% of the established admission of students. There is also talk of a strong fragmentation in an analysis of the World Bank for Higher Education, prepared in June 2021. To overcome these and other related problems, we propose that universities with similar and/or complementary profile and located in the same or nearby settlements be united under a common name with common or shared leadership. The idea is for the hat to be a legal person, and the constituent universities also retain significant legal and academic autonomy. Through the new structure the participating universities can share lecturers and material base such as sports facilities, dormitories and others, general administration and service units, organize a common candidate campaign. Such a structure currently does not exist in our higher education law, so it has yet to be defined and introduced in our legislation. It will not affect the specialized training in which each university has its own unique expertise. Individual universities will remain legal persons and will be able to apply for projects on their own and to associate for joint training with other universities. Such types of structures are widespread in developed countries because they combine the flexibility of smaller higher schools with the visibility and effectiveness of larger universities. The aim of the unification is to preserve the strengths of the universities involved in it, but also to create new opportunities that are not within the power of any of them individually. Such are the participations in major international projects, university networks and international rankings. United, higher schools will become more noticeable to potential investors and candidate students, which will increase the number of students trained in them, including from abroad. The integration process can be supported by the State, for example through investments in a common material base. It can be realized in stages and complete within two or three years. Large universities could also associate to better position themselves and Bulgaria as a whole in the European higher education system, attract more foreign students, lecturers and investors, participate in larger international education and scientific networks and rank higher in international rating systems. Along with the fragmentation of higher schools, the National Map of Higher Education, adopted in 2021, shows serious territorial disproportions of higher education in Bulgaria. The Northwestern region has no university to prepare staff for the local economy, administration. There work several independent branches of different universities, but still lack a number of basic and professional directions. This not only hinders the economic development of the region, but is one of the main reasons for leaving many young people in search of better education and better quality of life in other regions of the country. The idea is to consolidate these subsidiaries, to complement the missing professional directions and to create an educational university with several faculties to train pedagogical specialists, specialists in public health, economics, administration and management, engineers and other personnel needed for the region. In order to form the structure and attract sufficiently qualified lecturers, a three-year programme with targeted funding will be developed. In order to achieve this goal, it is also necessary to coordinate by the State close cooperation between the higher schools that have opened existing subsidiaries. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's what I'm graduating with. The Ministry of Education will issue an impact assessment of the proposed changes and present the projects for public consultation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u230	Thank you, Mr. Denkov. Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This is largely the concept laid down in the Higher Education Development Strategy to create confederates from higher schools, on the one hand. On the other hand, networking cooperation, with a higher school being able to participate in multiple networks. This also requires its legal regulation in the Law, and in fact you have proposed the general programmes in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Our network of state universities has been inherited from the times of socialism. It is based primarily on specialized higher education. The problem of small higher schools is that you said very well, the benefits of consolidation are, perhaps one you missed, that small higher schools cannot reproduce independently schools, or you said it in other words. If you make a successful attempt to unite them in confederations and propose to regulate shared departments, this disadvantage will be eliminated. It is very important in this sense how it will be done as technology and as a final legal form such a union. It is very important that they maintain their independence because, on the other hand, small universities generally have more energy for development, they have better governance. I'm willing to prove this to you with concrete examples. It is a very high risk for a larger structure to become a clumsy, bureaucratic structure and to manage worse and for individual higher schools to lose their independence, that is, you need to find the formula of synergy. Higher schools themselves need to realise the benefits of such integration. I think that the talks that we started with them in 2019 " 2020" have, to a large extent, shown that they are aware of these benefits. You should not, can not be the number of higher schools in itself problem, respectively the reduction of their number in itself cannot be a goal. This is like saying: there are too many countries in Europe in too small a territory and 70 years ago Jean Monnet and Robert Schumann had proposed to everyone to flow into France. Of course they wouldn't have made it. That is why today we have the European Union, because they have approached the principle of awareness of integration. Perhaps you should start with a small step program and rules for sharing resources, and then take the next steps, because, again, I think that Bulgarian higher schools and small higher schools are not against different forms of integration. The question is how will they be done. I also hope to see them before then in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education in a reasonable version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u232	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Minister Denkov, come in, for the coat. Colleagues, I would just like to make an announcement: the sitting will continue until the next question is exhausted, because we have no reason to prolong it further. We extend it over time for the affidavit. The last question is from the MP Elena Guncheva so that she can prepare. The rest stay for next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u233	There's only two things I'd like to add. Firstly, much of the discussion that unfolds in the media is based on statements that I have never, in any way, said, that is, I have no intention of entering into a discussion about criticisms that relate to other people's ideas. What we are going to realize right now will be in cooperation with the Rectors Council, will be in this structure that I have explained. I really hope that the higher schools will be involved. Unfortunately, in several of them, I see reluctance at all to enter this discussion. They are the ones who put the issue in such a sharp way. Fortunately, there are enough other higher schools, rectors who are willing to constructively discuss how this synergy could be achieved, which would be the purpose of such cooperation, in the way that I described it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the asking by the National Representative Elena Guncheva about closed schools in Bulgaria. As far as I can see the content, it has more content of a question because it has the specifics and does not refer to policies, so, Mrs. Guncheva, next time put it as a question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u235	Dear Minister, in the last 30 years schools have been permanently shut down in Bulgaria. Small settlements remain without educational institutions. This also leads to depopulation of many areas in Bulgaria, because where a school is closed, parents are forced to move to a larger city where their children can receive quality education. A number of schools with almost one-century history have been sold and destroyed, while others are destroyed and further create a picture of destruction and catastrophe. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: how many schools, primary and medium-sized, have been closed in Bulgaria since 1990 and summarize for what reasons. Are there areas in Bulgaria where there are no public or municipal schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u237	Thank you, Madam President. The procedure for changes in the school network is defined in the Law on pre-school and school education and in Ordinance No 9 of 19 August 2016 on institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. On the basis of art. 310, para. 1 of the Law The Minister of Education and Science opens, transforms, changes and closes public and municipal schools, specialized service units and public municipal centers for special educational support on a written proposal of the funding body and an opinion from the relevant regional management of education after verification. I am making this clarification as your question concerns closed primary, primary and secondary schools, which according to art. 52, para. 2 of the Law are municipal, i.e. they are financed by the municipalities. In this sense, a competent authority in decision-making for changes in municipal schools network is the municipal council as a body of local self-government. I would also like to make another clarification, as your question applies to the period since 1990. Until 1991, the closure of municipal schools was within the authority of the district councils, therefore the information about the number of closed primary, primary and secondary schools to be provided to you is for the period from 1991 to now. These are 1435 schools from them: 630 primary, 776 primary and 29 secondary schools. In comparison, students in the school network decreased from 1 million 366 thousand 927 to 708 thousand 628, i.e. they decreased by 658 thousand 299 students, or almost half. The proposals and decisions to close schools are difficult for both the municipal authorities and the Ministry of Education and Science. The main reasons are related to demographic changes in the country, which, over the years, have deepened and led to changes in the school network. Depopulation of the districts leads to differences in socio-economic profile, infrastructure and ensuring equal access to quality education of students in individual municipalities, regions. A manifestation of which are the training in merged classes, the lack of qualified teachers and others. Such an organizational solution to the educational process puts students at a disadvantage in their school training, socialization, as well as in the application after completion of educational stage and degree. Demographic changes in the country are most reflected on small settlements, so the prevailing number of closed schools are precisely in such settlements. In other words, the demand for schools, at least in recent years, is a consequence, and is not a cause of demographic problems. The closure decisions of schools take into account the need for quality education, the provision of modern equipment, educational and supporting school environments, the ability to study in separate classes and to obtain knowledge and competence and according to age development and cognitive needs, the development of talents and so on, all activities requiring the relevant material environment and qualified teachers. Regarding the second part of your questioning about the existence of areas in the country without state or municipal schools there are none. There are schools in every municipality. However, it is not possible to have one in each of the 5257 settlements in the country. I believe you will agree with me that the demographic changes reflected in the last census are an indisputable fact that leads after itself as a consequence and to changes in the school network, because where there are not enough students, there is no opportunity for quality education. I believe that in improving the conditions for life in Bulgaria and other events some of which we see and at the moment, the return of our compatriots back to the country could create prerequisites for opening schools in more settlements.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u238	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Mrs. Guncheva, you have the opportunity for two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u239	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I see that there are still some in the Chamber! I think this is a very important issue for the Bulgarian state. We have been at war for 30 years against our own population. How is it possible in 30 years twice to reduce the number of students? That's something... [[Laughter from the People's Representative from "We are continuing the Change."]] Yeah, it's not funny. I'm sorry someone's laughing. It's not funny! We die without war. I think that we, as MPs, should see that the main problem in this country is the demographic disaster that is happening right now. We are in a state of war, and that is why education is one of the pillars of the state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please, Minister, pay serious attention to this problem and even where there are few students, not to close schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u241	I'll say it again. Quality education requires a certain environment that can be provided when we have the necessary number of children. When we have one student in a given place in a given class, there is no way to provide quality education for this student. Therefore, the state takes all measures to enable children who are in this situation to go to a school environment that can provide the best possible quality. The demographic problem is not caused by the schools, our school system suffers from demographic problems in the country. It is very important to see what are the causes of these demographic problems, but they are not in the school network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-08.u242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your participation and comprehensive answers. That concludes today's session. Next meeting on 9 March at 9:00. Have a good rest. For those of you on committees, enjoy your work. [[PHONE RINGING]]
