ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u1	For registration scuse colleagues online today: Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u3	Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u5	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u6	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u7	And Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u8	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u9	204 registered MPs in the hall and 4 online There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We continue under the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week. The first item on the agenda for today is: PROJECT OF A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR DISCLOSURE OF CHANGES IN THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers Hristo Ivanov, Iva Miteva, Atanas Atanasov, Toshko Yordanov, Vasil Stefanov and Atanas Slavov. A draft decision has been deposited. I would like some of the importers to present the Project. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to discuss amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission to discuss amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the rights of citizens, the rule of law, independence and accountability of the judiciary. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman:... Members:... 4. The Temporary Commission shall also hold public discussions with representatives of institutions, the academic community, professional and civil organisations, the lawyer's office. Consider the opinions received and prepare proposals for changes. 5. The temporary committee is elected for a period of six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. I am opening a discussion on the presented project. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the proposal for the establishment of a Temporary Commission, I would like to express my satisfaction with the optimism of our colleagues from We see in recent days that it is difficult for you to even collect a quorum to examine the bills and their voting, and I do not see any reason at all for such a change of the Constitution. The temporary committee is completely redundant because this National Assembly does not have such a high percentage of public confidence as is necessary for changes to the most important law of our country. With regard to the reasons by which we are proposed to elect such a Temporary Commission, it refers to the rights of citizens, the European Union and the Council of Europe, some recommendations for the rule of law, but there is nothing concrete. We have not seen a bill or any concrete proposals. We are offered to choose a Temporary Commission, which is not known what it will do, is not known what texts will change, it is not known in which areas the Constitution will change. I believe that this proposal is extremely inappropriate and should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u13	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mrs. Guncheva? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov. Hristo Ivanov and Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support the establishment of this temporary parliamentary committee. We have stated our position on a change in the Constitution, in particular, and on Chapter Nine of the Court of Justice. This debate is clearly needed by society because low trust in the judiciary system at least requires it. The expectations of this committee are to open the debate and propose the best way to solve this problem. We are expecting a constructive committee, an objective debate, an expert debate and an analysis of the necessary constitutional changes, if necessary, in particular, again, I say Chapter 9 of the Constitution. This is why the BSP for Bulgaria will support the establishment of this committee, we will participate in it......................................... for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u15	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines to Mr. Popov? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u16	I object to the claim that the agenda of society and judicial reform is in God knows which place from the twentieth. There are many other and much more important pressing issues that you stubbornly refuse to look at in this room: the problems with electricity, the problems with galloping inflation, the problems with the crises of health care, economic and all kinds of things, this is the agenda of society. This fictional committee is definitely not its time, nor its place in this extremely and enjoying the mistrust of the public National Assembly and an absolutely fragile majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u17	Thank you. Another line to Mr. Popov? I won't. Mr. Popov, do you want a jacket?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Bulgaria is a rule of law, a member of the European Union, the rule of law, compliance with the rules and, of course, the basic framework of the Constitution of the Law is necessary in order for Bulgaria to be the rule of law European state. It is obvious that there is a problem with the judiciary system, with regard to trust in the judiciary system, so that this debate is necessary among others, it is timely, perhaps even late. That's my back to you. It is necessary at least to open the debate, to examine Chapter 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Hristo Ivanov is listed for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, a few more words in defence of this committee. Our society is strongly divided and the division in our political system is particularly on the line of our relationship to corruption and to certain corruption models inherited from the past. The only way to resolve this division is in an institutional way, not simply by exchanging a variety of statements about having a judicial system and a judicial authority that we can trust and real justice can take place. There is one principle that you will excuse me for quoting it in the original language in which it is formulated: justice must be done and must be seen to be done. [[noise and lines]] Don't get so excited. Bulgaria is an integrated country in international legal culture, nothing is scary. From time to time will be heard phrases in a variety of languages in Latin, in Russian, in English, too, and it is not so scary. If you'll let me go back to what I wanted to say. Justice doesn't just have to be there, it has to be perceived as justice, it has to benefit from the public's trust that it looks like justice and can be seen as such. This is a key issue of trust. Currently, Bulgarian justice, especially the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, enjoys levels of public trust that are so low that they absolutely do not allow them to fulfil their rightful role. That is, where there is doubt, where there is a sense of corruption or allegations of corruption, they are pronounced in a way that really solves the problem, and it does not overflow with the political system and we are here trying to exchange different sentences and statements that we can neither prove nor our job here to discuss them. This recovery of Bulgarian society and public life cannot happen without judicial reform. Bulgaria pays an extremely high price because of the perception that it is among the most corrupt countries in the European Union. We've talked about this a lot of times, but this price isn't some abstraction. This price is paid because our partners do not trust us because one of the key factors that suppresses Bulgaria's investment attractiveness is the perception that it is the corrupt country, the perception that it cannot be trusted in its justice, the high political risk that investors assess when assessing whether to come and invest here. All of this, and we should add to it the enormous damage to Bulgaria's reputation, its image that we tolerate, and that we are constantly a country that is under sanctions, under observation, under doubt. This topic is explicitly or not present as a stumbling block in the path of all of our efforts related to further integration into the European Union and Schengen, ultimately depends on the trust our partners have with regard to our institutions, including the ability of Bulgarian justice to deal with corruption cases and in the Eurozone and the theme that is related. There this topic is present, so it is high time to make efforts to start solving it in some convincing way both for Bulgarian society and for our partners. It costs money, it costs social division, it costs uncertainty, it limits the possibility of the country's development. From this point of view, I will allow myself to disagree that this is not the time. This is the subject of her time for many years. Anyone who watches the Bulgarian public life can notice that it is central. By the way, there are many sociological studies that contradict the claims that this topic is not important. We, of the majority, propose this committee with the understanding that judicial reform should include amendments to the Constitution. It does not run out of them and in no way can it be argued that they would be sufficient condition to change the administration of justice in Bulgaria. Many of the changes that need to happen depend on the possibility to make constitutional changes, especially with regard to the structure of the Supreme Judicial Council, the status of the Prosecutor General, and are related to some other topics, such as the possibility of a direct constitutional complaint, which will finally open the way for every Bulgarian citizen to benefit from the benefits of constitutional justice or justice with all the conventions with which it can be called. It's about time we did it. The constitution envisions for these changes super-many majorities that exceed the ruling majority. And that's good because it requires a much wider agreement, which is actually the guarantee for this not only to collect a certain number of votes, but to really lay the foundation where there is a division, and where the big division begins. Let's start looking for ways to find agreement, not everything. Far from it all. The differences will remain, the disputes will remain, but still, when it comes to topics that are structurally determining the Bulgarian statehood and its state, can we see whether we can find common ground and any agreement? To seek consent, we chose not to submit our own bill. We obviously have the necessary signatures to do this thing, but if we had chosen to submit a majority bill, it would have meant putting all political formations outside the majority in a state of a small or very finished fact, to a question: Do you support our bill? We thought that would not be a good approach to seeking consent. We felt that the more sensible thing is to create a platform on which we can look on equal grounds, on parietal grounds, in a common dialogue, our points of contact where we can unite on topics related to the subject of the work of this committee. The goal is that everyone on an equal footing be able to participate in her work. Moreover, today this vote will be the first request in the Parliamentary Hall for the intention to participate in this effort at all. This is one of the reasons why this is not a subcommittee to the Legal Committee, because the subcommittee, firstly, shares a resource with a limited time resource of the Legal Commission, and secondly, because it is voted on by the Legal Commission. Here in the parliamentary hall today the vote will be the first signal to the Bulgarian society that we are ready to start this conversation, to start this dispute, but still to look for a path to what can unite us on this topic and not just to all the topics that divide us. We'll see. Today, it will begin whether we have grown up yet to look for any bridges that can make up for the huge divisions that cost us so dearly as a society. That is why my call is: the House is full of experienced parliamentarians or talented future parliamentarians who can find arguments on any subject about............. about something else.........................in essence and so on. I have no doubt that each and every one of you, depending on the political benefit that you would have and which you see at this point, would have found arguments in any direction, but let's try to look at this proposal of ours for a common effort, for seeking consent a little over political bitterness and a little above the conuncture. Now that there's a platform on which to seek consent, let's try. If we don't make it, we won't make it. Everyone will have their responsibility or their positives depending on how they play the cards, but let's try it, because this is the responsible approach. Because people expect us to show that we can find those forms of conversation public, by the way. This is not about having a series of closed-door meetings and consultations where it is not clear what is being said. It is about going into this committee in a public process, I say again, on a parietal basis and putting on the table what it is ready to commit to, what it is ready to support, and the arguments with which it is not ready to support other ideas for reform of justice. Let's make this public. This is extremely important so that we can talk again about some minimum trust in this process, with all the differences that we have with each other. So, with respect to each and every one of you, my call is: let us not look for arguments against it and try to use this platform to seek consent, which we of the majority are trying to offer to the parties that are in opposition or who are outside the majority so that we can move forward on this so important subject. Again, I mean, money in a public trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines for Mr. Ivanov? Tsoncho Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u22	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ivanov, I would like to remind you that just a few months before today's date GERB took the same path. Within one day, a minister has prepared a proposal to change the Constitution and has launched a process that you are currently doing, and at least you are going there. I can't accept your argument. I cannot accept that this is how the announced change occurs, because once again we observe what has been happening for 12 years. You're doing the exact same thing. Under all those words you've spoken, saying that there will be consensus, that everything is out in the open, excuse me, where are the proposals to change the Constitution? It's not serious to go and set up a temporary committee that just pulls the stunt that we're going to make judicial reform. It's not serious to change the Constitution. This is not some law that will undergo another change and this thing will affect some industry or sector of our economy. What's happening right now, I can't take it as normal. I cannot accept it as normal, especially from your political coalition, once again running away from the topic, which for years explains that there will be judicial reform, and finally you will be on the way to setting up a Temporary Committee for Constitutional Changes, which is not clear what they are, when they will happen and whether they will happen at all. How do we support something that we have no idea what it's gonna be about? How to support something with which only in words you want to change the judiciary, given that for two months now a bill submitted by an aging specifically for a change in legislation, to enable the judicial system to reform itself, to have the necessary levers to change the Supreme Judicial Council, so that the Prosecutor General can come out and not act while an investigation is going by him, this thing has not been accepted. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On the contrary, you are on your way to changing the Constitution by unknown what points and paragraphs. That's why we can't support this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Another line to Hristo Ivanov? Hamid Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I didn't get it so well, although I'm good at mathematics, what do the words mean: "We won't import now, even though we have the necessary signatures." Have you read how many signatures you have to submit to the Constitution or to a Draft amending the Constitution? Or did your mentor Prokopiev not tell you how to import a Constitution? [[Laughter and excitement.]] I've been listening to some stories since I was a kid: "If you don't want to do one job, create a commission. " Well, now I understand what you don't want to do, Mr. Ivanov, because a temporary committee is being set up on a specific occasion, on the study of a separate issue or the conduct of a survey. Did Mr. Procopiev order you to conduct a survey? Bring in one project and set up the Temporary Commission. Are you doing this just because there's no committee left for you to chair? That's what I'm wondering. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u25	Is there a third line? Rositsa Kirova for line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! There is no question that there is a need for reform of the justice system, and I believe that there is no one in this Chamber who doubts that. However, we all know how ridiculous and unsuccessful our experience has been until the moment of this National Assembly with the temporary committees. We had a Temporary Commission that had to analyse the state of energy and propose concrete solutions. Not very good experience with the temporary committees and the previous two parliaments. Apart from making noise and public PR stocks, nothing else has been achieved. And in this regard, the reasons for the proposal that I have come to know, I was impressed that in order to ensure the legitimacy of the entire process and the implementation of the constitutional initiative, before proceeding with the introduction of the specific bill, the importer claims that it is necessary to conduct a thorough discussion with representatives of institutions, the academic community, professional organisations of judges, prosecutors, investigators, lawyers, specialized civil organisations. In short, all that we do not do in permanent committees, all that is recommended for each bill. Yes, the amendments to the Constitution are extremely important because they will affect the lives of all Bulgarian citizens, permanently, I hope, and I hope they will be for the better. I am extremely worried about the second part of your justification why the committee should be temporary: I mean the high level of workload of the permanent Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and taking into account the principle of its formation in proportion to the size of the parliamentary groups. I think that the Bulgarian society is proportionately represented in this Parliament and it is right that even if it is temporary, it also has a proportionate way of presenting so that all Bulgarian citizens can be represented in this Parliament in the way that they voted and expressed their opinion. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And I'm done, Mr. Chairman, I apologize for the delay! I think such a committee is necessary, but it should not be temporary. That's why we have permanent committees. We have too many committees, we have meetings, and we can't do our job because this is how it's distributed. I suggest that we consider a better distribution of the work of the Standing Committees. And since our permanent committee had some sort of constitutional issues in its title, to do its job. This is a serious topic that must be discussed for a long time, and I hope we will find a real consensus that will benefit the Bulgarian society and increase confidence in the justice system. Of course, I believe we all do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u27	For the back, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u28	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues, we all want it, but when it comes to proposing a specific format for work, we are somehow trying to find from nine ravens of water, often contrary to ourselves, not to do so. It's not a comfortable subject, I agree. To a colleague from the age of one, his contradictions even within three minutes. First we do the same as GERB, which in one day pulled out a bill, then where is the bill you ask? Don't you see the contradiction? That's the idea. It's not for us to pull out a bill... And here, Mr. Hamid, I'm sorry, I speak on behalf of the majority that we can collect the necessary signatures, not on behalf of the group of the Democratic Bulgaria. I hope that this explanation will be made clear. Together, let us first outline those areas where there is consensus, because in fact consensus is possible and it is a consensus of obvious and long-standing political inevitability that many people do not want to comply with. And here I understand what Mr. Hamid is doing with his rather provocative statement. He wants us to have a fight so that you can claim that because we exchanged sharp phrases, everyone talks about their fantasy friend "There is such a figure in children's psychology, so that this effort will fail. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I won't give you this opportunity, Mr. Hamid. You have the opportunity to join each other on equal terms, parities, with respect, and this, Mrs Kirova, is the logic of drawing up these kinds of committees.. all equally participate so that they can be sure that their voice will be heard that there will be maximum respect for their arguments as far as they have, of course, essentially, and not so from the point of view of child psychology. I know that when the oligarch is in the gym, it's hard to prove yourself all the time. [[Applause from DB and We are continuing the Change.]] But let's try anyway on this topic to look for some points of touch, not the points that separate us and about which we argue. We can argue and hang out all we want, we have time for this, but this is an opportunity to try and do some work. So with respect to the voters of each of the parties, let's try to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Karadaye, you're on procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I would like to ask you that you may have forgotten last week to warn the employees of the National Assembly to take care of there, in the website the status of my question from 15 December 2021 to Minister Rashkov, where I based on art. Art. 111, Art. 138 of the National Assembly's Rules I asked for documents on those over 20,000 outrageous, perverse and militia that we saw in the July and November elections. [[Laughter]] He has sent you a letter explaining the meaning of some articles of some laws. Your correspondence does not interest me, I want an answer to my question, so if you have forgotten, warn the officials in the administration to change the status of my question that I have not yet received an answer from Minister Rashkov to date. This is my request, Mr. Chairman, for you to do some work, and you also have obligations under art. 92, para. 5 "Exactly for the answers, but clearly this topic is not clear to you. We'll have this conversation another way and another safe place. This is for you, Mr. Chairman. To say: yes, oligarch and media monopoly Ivo Prokopiev is here in the hall and its proxy is contained in several of the groups, and your group, Mr. Ivanov, is an official representative of this oligarchic media circle. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Petar Petrov is listed for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I've heard from the importers, from the defenders of the idea of creating a temporary committee slogans, demands, intentions. Unfortunately, I didn't hear anything concrete! This is probably because there is a lack of consensus between the ruling coalition on judicial reforms, which lack of consensus has been implemented and in the pages of the coalition agreement Part I "Strategy" section, where I have said it another time from this tribune on seven pages, fourteen times the word "strategy" is repeated nine times. And I ask myself, what will this temporary committee do? With analysis and with strategies, as the coalition agreement in Part I is concerned, is that what we are going to do? Dear importers and defenders of the idea of a temporary committee which currently has no subject matter. The basic law has been changed, if memory serves, six times. It is no coincidence that changes require, when there is any discussion at all, that there is a specific which, unfortunately, the ruling coalition does not ask us, because there is no idea, there is no consensus, and this temporary committee will be a vain blow to the air, as is the whole proposed reform in their coalition agreement. I hope to hear from the previous defenders of the idea of a Temporary Committee for Amendments to the Constitution what specific proposals we should discuss when this committee is formed. Unfortunately, I didn't hear any. We've talked enough about intentions, calls and so on, let's talk a little bit in the particulars, from a practical point of view. Since there is no proposed project or vision of what this temporary committee will be working on, I remember that on 16 April, when the Forty-fiveth National Assembly was formed, a draft was submitted for amendments to the Constitution on behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" signed by 27 MPs, although the legal requirement is 60. I'm sure Mr. Ivanov knows that too, Mr. Hamid has just touched on this subject. Colleagues, is this how we're going to make changes to the Constitution by importing similar projects that don't even have the required number? In fact, I wonder at all how this draft amendment to the Constitution has been submitted to the National Assembly? And I think one of the importers had said it then, if memory serves me right: "We left it there, who wants to sign it, to support it! " - Is that what this temporary committee is going to do?! Not to mention the proposals in the Chambers. If it's gonna work the way the Legal Commission does, we better not create it. Again, I remind you that on 7 December we submitted a bill of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and has not yet entered into the agenda of the Legal Commission. Let's get back to something concrete. Honourable colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria", your Draft Law on Constitutional Changes was.. I will not use the word "absourden", but the least unacceptable in some ways. First of all, you created with it different requirements for election of prosecutors and judges. Next, you created a possibility for lustration, and only for a period of 10 years. And how will this lustration be done, what will these conditions be?! Only an opportunity for lustration to be recorded in the Constitution without any specifics. You created another opportunity with this draft amendment to the Constitution for a so-called citizens' legislative initiative with a minimum threshold of 10,000 signatures. What's the effect on this thing? I will give an example, my colleagues from the "There is such a people" brought in a referendum of 600 thousand signatures to the National Assembly................................. what happened?......................................... what Nothing. Then what is the use of making a citizens' legislative initiative with 10,000 signatures? Colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and you from the ruling coalition when you want to set up a temporary committee, it should not be subject to high-profile slogans and intentions for some judicial reform, which you yourself do not know what it should be. When such a committee is set up, it must be based on specific requests that I see you do not have the courage to make them. We are going to do them the way we did with the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Judicial Authority, and I repeat it to you, for the temporary suspension of the Attorney General. You must make your specific demands, unfortunately, even when you do, they are wicked. I will once again give you a practical example of my colleagues from the ruling coalition with the Moving and Final Provisions of the State Budget Act for 2022. You are erasing the Institute of Judges of the Registrys. Yesterday I received a protest letter from their association. Is that how it works? It's supposed to be a change, isn't it? It's different from the colleagues on the right who were in charge until just now. With the "Transitional and Final Provisions" of a Budget Act. You know what kind of act it is, and why is it called law at all, you're changing other laws and erasing an entire institute without public discussion, without anything?! Is this how this temporary committee is going to work on amendments to the Constitution? We won't support her! We won't support her from the age of old! Please think of another time when you are talking about judicial reform at all, to offer to the National Assembly, when you are looking for support especially in its required number of 160 MPs, to say specifically what you want. I will give you a hot example when we said that we will make a constitutional complaint against the decision of the National Assembly, which you have taken, for access to the buildings with only a green certificate, we have stated the specific topic on which we will seek support from the MPs in view of the required number of 48 we are only 13, to tell you that we have received it. This is how you say the specific thing you want, honourable Members, and you don't talk to me here about the need for consensus and at all for judicial reform only to cover up some attempts to usurp the judiciary from some civil structures or NGOs that are funded by foreign agents disguised as foundations. I specifically refer to America for Bulgaria. Is this your judicial reform? Is that why we're making a temporary committee? I'm sorry, but we're not going to support this project. We will support the Temporary Commission Project when you place precise and concrete points both on citizens' rights, as well as on judicial reform, which can be discussed. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u33	Thank you. There is a line from Atanas Slavov and then from Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u34	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear colleague Petrov, you have read, but you have not read the Constitutional Project of the Democratic Bulgaria and your contradictions. He has ideas, he has no ideas, and he has specific texts, and he doesn't have any! It is a fact that in the previous meeting "Democratic Bulgaria" presented a very clear, concrete project, such as a Bill with reasons for amendments to the Constitution. Couldn't we have introduced him now? We could, but the goal is to seek and agree when we change the public treaty of the nation, namely the Constitution, and that is why we propose a committee on a monetary principle, so that everyone can present their constitutional ideas and not us trying to lead the parade, being one of the small parliamentary groups. That is why this committee is a discussion, dialogue, reaching consensus in the eyes of the Bulgarian people, and not just waving some projects that will not become a law. So, colleagues, I ask that everyone be responsible and broadcast representatives to the Commission so that we can do the work the Bulgarian people have chosen us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u36	Mr. Petrov, I would like to ask you to speak to each other about the party bases that have dropped on you, but please refrain from being smart on the subject of the referendum, because the referendum made by the Slavi Show then gathered over two and a half million votes and actually had more votes than President Radev gathered then to become president, and it is something that cannot be skipped, something that is already in the Bulgarian history and the decisions that people said then will eventually become a law. So, if you'll all please refrain from making silly remarks!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u37	The line is Plamen Abrovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Petrov, I do not know why you make the huge mistake of fixing yourself only on the judicial reform. The fact is that in Bulgaria we have a big problem with judicial reform, the fact is that there is a need for reform. Honourable Members, this committee gives an opportunity to address quite other issues that are beyond judicial reform. I'll give you an example. We have been a full member of the European Union for 16 years now, but unfortunately, the Parliament, of which we are absolutely all, currently has no internal mechanism by which to participate or at least have the right to participate equally with the Council of Ministers within the various Council formats where it participates in the legislative process of the European Union. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Mr. Bikov, I apologize, since I heard your line, if you visit the Agricultural Commission, you will understand what this is about. At the moment, the Council of Ministers has already voted at the level of agriculture ministers legislative proposals that engage the National Assembly without consulting it, that is what I mean. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleague Slavov, I have read your bill carefully, just to correct you for being introduced not in the past, but in the previous National Assembly, on the date of April 16th, which was the Day of the Bulgarian Constitution. In fact, I think it was the first bill, if memory serves, in the then National Assembly, and not only have I read it, but I believe that there were even two concrete proposals in it that I would support, namely the right of the citizen to appeal to all administrative acts, as well as the right to an individual constitutional appeal, that is to you. If you bring such a thing and such a request, of course, within the framework of the dispute in substance I would be happy, Mr. Slavov, to discuss it, it would even be my pleasure. Now to colleague Toshko Yordanov. I apologize, perhaps you did not understand me. I gave the example of the referendum as a good example of how such a great representativeness of the Bulgarian society was not respected by the Bulgarian Parliament, in the context of the comparison with a proposal of.. Democratic Bulgaria.... for constitutional changes, in which they allow 10 thousand citizens to make a legislative initiative. And I asked: what will be the effect of this after such a huge representation of your referendum, unfortunately, did not receive a subsequent positive sanction from the National Assembly, Mr. Yordanov. I apologize, I may have misinterpreted myself, but I say again: I set it as a good example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Hamid Hamid and then Thomas Bikov are now listed for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Committee on Rights and Freedoms, will not support the establishment of this committee. First of all, there is a permanent Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, where this debate can take place, must take place. We really need these constitutional changes, and I don't know why you chose this approach by setting up a temporary committee that will do nothing?! Why didn't you choose this approach from the previous National Assembly, gentlemen, this was the right approach to imagine the project and seek the necessary support. We will not be fixed on the 60 signatures, it takes 160 votes to make this a fact. So let's not talk about 60 signatures you can always find 60 signatures. Where will you find 160? For these tosses: the majority is great, it will pass, all of you will be crushed. How long are you gonna play this movie? Mr. Yordanov, we will do just that, today we will present to all parliamentary groups our Draft for amendment and supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here is a specific occasion and on this occasion you can now propose to set up a Temporary Commission. Do it yourself, give your project and then set up a Temporary Commission, because otherwise, although everyone attacked Mr. Petrov, he is right when there is nothing to argue about in this committee? You say, let's not jitter, let's not fight with you, I don't intend to. I have no intention of fighting with you, no one quarrels with a fallen angel. You went to Tarnovo, you said you'd beat them all. Did you get a mandate in Veliko Tarnovo? And there people found out that no one wanted the oligarch Prokopiev to be a member of parliament from Veliko Tarnovo. [[Elevator bell dings]] So I have no intention of hanging out with fallen angels. [[Applause from DPS.]] We import our project, we look for support, if we get it, well, if we don't get it, we move on. But we will not participate in a scenario played by the oligarch Prokopiev. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u43	Are there any lines to Hamid Hamid? I won't. The next statement is from Toma Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In recent years, we have been called by all sorts of insulting qualifications by the parties that make up the current ruling majority, including the mafia, the organised group of crime. Yesterday one of our colleagues from "We continue the Change" said that if the prosecution and KKCONPI are reformed, we will probably half become clients of the Prosecutor's Office as well. Today you invite us very kindly to participate in a committee to draw up constitutional changes, and you are calling us to dialogue. And you're a little bit contradicted here, because either you think we're a party or you think we're a mafia. And if you think we're a mafia, I don't see why you want to have a mafia dialogue. It would be a retreat from your principles if you really consider us a mafia. That is why we, and I will say it from the beginning, we want someone from the ruling majority to come out here first and say it not to us, but to our voters that GERB is a political party, not a mafia organisation, so that you can have a dialogue with us. Otherwise, this will be a problem for you. We are accustomed to these insults and those qualifications that offend our constituents above all, not ourselves, because we have voted for more people than for some of the parties in the ruling majority. The second thing we said at the beginning is that we would be a constructive partner as an opposition to the ruling majority, we have our ideas, but we insist that the ruling majority allow us to help him from time to time by distinguishing ourselves from certain speeches by the Minister of Interior Mr. Boyko Rashkov. Because this man also yesterday keeps calling us what you've been calling us all the time. By the way, summer of 2020 you said you wouldn't negotiate with terrorists, now you're obviously ready to negotiate with terrorists. Are you ready? Because we're ready to talk to you. Are you ready to talk to us? Do any of you have the courage to come out on this stand and say: "We want GERB to participate in these talks. We would like to talk to GERB. "To say it publicly, to say it to its voters, who until yesterday have been persuaded, literally until yesterday, have been convinced that we are some kind of mafia structure. Do you have that kind of readiness? Because changing the Constitution requires courage, and at the moment the greatest courage is for one of you to come out and say, "Yes." GERB is a party. I want to talk to GERB. And to hold that opinion and explain it to his constituents because, if you want mathematically, it is clear that no Constitution can change without our votes. That's how the voters decided not us. We are glad that today at least you have come to some point, that there must be political dialogue, that there must be some kind of unity. How long is this gonna take? Perhaps until the next item on the agenda in which you will return to your old form and continue to believe that you have in some way the moral right to change whatever you decide, regardless of what mandate you have received from your constituents. There's talk of low trust in the D.A.'s office. The truth is that trust is low in this parliament because of record low turnout. To what extent this is a legitimate National Assembly, which can make changes to the Constitution, is a complex issue. Yes, perhaps it would be possible if we really reached a consensus if all parties had united around something. What is this thing we have ideas, we have prepared proposals. I don't know if you have any. I'm following your suggestions, they're mellow, and everything that's melancholy says Goethe disappears because until three months ago you proposed the National Assembly to elect the Attorney General. Do you still care about that? Do the colleagues of the People still insist that prosecutors be chosen by direct choice, such as their proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u45	Yeah, we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u46	And that's very different from the other. And here we are talking about the big question: do you not have unity with the opposition, but do you have unity in the ruling majority with regard to the amendments to the Constitution? And only then can you seek the opposition when you have achieved unity in your ruling majority. And I think that's why you don't have a concrete proposal, because you know yourself that you have mixed ideas about the Constitution. And now you're saying let's talk about it. Okay. We will support this committee! We will support this committee, we will participate in it. We hope you appreciate this gesture, because it's a gesture. We do not need this committee, nor do we need to participate in it. But I hope you understand the gesture. And when you go out on this stand, to speak with political arguments, not with qualifications and with insults, I repeat, to our constituents. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Is there a line to Mr. Bikov? Iskren Arabadzhiev and then Toshko Yordanov and Hristo Ivanov for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Bikov, I apologize if I have in any way offended you with yesterday's speech. I just want it to be clear to the Bulgarian society on the basis of the speeches yesterday and today, possibly which of the persons have recognized themselves in my words. I said that half of the MPs would become clients of the Prosecutor's Office because I believe that there are decent MPs in each parliamentary group, so we offer our hand to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. As part of the importers of today's draft decision, we know that we do not have enough votes for constitutional changes, but we believe in the conscience that every MP will manifest and in the understanding of each of us how important it is to have the constitutional changes that we will propose in the Temporary Committee, which I hope we will adopt today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u49	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Tosko Yordanov for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u50	Mr. Bikov, it is normal for the ruling majority to have differences in how, for example, the Attorney General will be elected. We are, after all, different political subjects. However, we all have the same goal and the same understanding, and that is that the way in which the prosecution is currently structured and acting, especially with the one who is unfortunately the Prosecutor General, is disgusting. We don't have any differences here. There are evils that are solved one by one. First we solve the great evil, then we can later, at the next stage, measure our ideas and convince each other how the Attorney General should possibly be elected. And as far as this is concerned, you quoted my words here from this tribune by the previous National Assembly, yes, my opinion is the same. And the way from this thing to a normal party is participation in a similar committee. You have a way to go so we can begin to see you as a normal party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u51	Mr. Yordanov, a short time ago you made comments to your colleagues from aging for a silly speech, and now to colleagues from GERB for a mafia organization. This is the last time I'm not punishing you, but next time there will be a remark. [[Noise and shouting from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u52	You're right. Punish me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u53	With intent? [[Heckling]] Well, in the event of a deliberate remark about Toshko Yordanov about the speeches made during the meeting. The third line is from Hristo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Bikov! Yes, there are differences in the ruling majority, we have different ideas, of course we have been in elections and we have received as much support as we have received. And based on this support, none of us can bilaterally realise our ideas. That's how democracy works, and thank God. So we will seek consensus within these differences, both within the ruling majority and within the entire parliament, so that we can nevertheless find some overlap and some coincidence and some compromise from the point of view of the big objectives. By the way, it is not bad to return this word a little bit and with the possibility of positive connotation in the Bulgarian political dictionary. I said before you put this question to me in your initial speech, one important thing. I would like to repeat it: I personally and think that my colleagues saw what Iskren said, we are looking for the creation of this committee not only for arithmetic reasons, for arithmetic inevitability. We see in it an opportunity for a very long journey that begins with it. We will not be able to finish it today, as you may wish..................................................................................................... to seek the opportunity to rebuild and regenerate Bulgarian political life. The divisions are a fact, Mr. Bikov. Through these divisions are thrown all sorts of words, stones, rhetorical sometimes and not. Until we find a way to start closing them, it won't be easy, it won't happen with a phrase exchanged here today. Yes, we quite frankly address each of the factions in the parliament, both to you and to rebirth, and to the DPS, let us try. Because I also believe on the question of who is what a party it is. There is no political organization here for which no qualifications have been made by others what it is you will agree with this. Some of this matter should really go to, hopefully, in a better future where there are allegations that are covered by the Penal Code, there should be a prosecution and a court to rule on authority, and we shouldn't bother each other to judge each other. It's a civilisational effort we have to make together. I believe. But also, ultimately, who is defined in his actions. Who is what is defined, I personally apply this standard to myself, to the "Democratic Bulgaria" so it is not the question to define ourselves here, the question is to show our voters that we can work together. Yes, we're inviting you to do that, and I'm glad you said that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The time of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria has run out. I only inform you. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u56	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I accept the clarification of my colleague from "We are continuing the Change." I couldn't figure out in detail what he meant, but I guess he wanted to clarify that maybe everyone was innocent until proven guilty, though, and that some people in this room might be unpleasant to him, but that doesn't mean they're for prosecutors. Mr. Yordanov is a man who doesn't change. By Goethe's phrase, it means it's eternal, because everything melancholy disappears. He's not mellow. I will accept that in the ruling majority one of the parties, who is ready to talk to the mafia, is a people, because they are willing to talk to a mafia organization, as Mr. Yordanov said. And negotiate. They even want this mob organization to go the way they do. Because if you become like them, it means GERB from the first power to become fifth in three months something that did not happen 12 years. [[GERB-SDS.]] By the way, this happened to the colleagues from "There is such a people" because they behaved exactly the way they did and people felt them. And when you talk about your intolerance to corruption, take and tell your leader to file his declaration at last. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] So let's see his property status as we have all done here, who were MPs in the forty-fiveth and forty-sixth, and forty-seventh National Assembly. I've filed a statement three times and I've already worn my fingers to write the same thing. Mr. Ivanov, you're saying to go some way. So far, I see you've come your way. I don't know about us, but you've walked because you already want to talk to us. Two years ago, you absolutely refused to talk to us. Five months ago, too. So who walks what way, is seen by his actions, it's like on the train you stay in one place, but you walk somewhere. And you're a little bit like on a train, thinking you're standing in your seat and flying at a mad speed in a particular direction. And I'm glad this direction is headed our way. Thank you. [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Any other speeches? Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject of changing the Constitution is a topic that has been discussed for many years. It was adopted 1990 with the majority of the BCP-BSP with a single goal: to transform political power into economic power. And it was fulfilled in a perfect way. The truth is that 39 MPs from the.......... have seen the model that has been repeating for 30 years, then I will tell you two words about this model, they went on a hunger strike, they did not sign the Constitution and subsequently became the backbone of the........... which in those years carried out several reforms. I will speak slightly differently from my colleagues from GERB, in the forty-fourth National Assembly, once again tabled a proposal for amendments to the Constitution, which is not limited to judicial reform. By the way, we also believe that judicial reform is important, we believe that it is even very important, especially after recent sociological studies, which show that 3% of Bulgarian citizens are very excited about this reform, and we will support the judicial reform. But we have visions that this Constitution has become obsolete, that it needs changes. It was accepted in other times, in which countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland waited two or three years. We, as a young inexperienced organization, were trapped at the Grand National Assembly and the rapid adoption of a Constitution in which this model was set. This model, which we want to change, and the colleagues who are currently managing and talking about changing the model, can only change with a change in the Constitution. This is the model of interaction between the individual authorities, and if you read the Constitution carefully, you will see that out of the desire to highlight their role, the MPs have written that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, but when you see the powers of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, you will de facto be convinced that Bulgaria is a Prime Minister's Republic.................................................................... In this regard, we have proposed several times to initiate the convening of a Grand National Assembly and to make complete changes to this Constitution. Moreover, we are in a very new situation. We are a member of the European Union, a member of NATO, we have adapted many of the European Union's legislation. Last but not least is not solving the issue with the Institute Grand National Assembly. He's an anachronism. Only a few countries in the European Union have it, and if we did not have the Institute of the Grand National Assembly, now this ordinary National Assembly would have been much easier to change the Constitution in any direction. In our proposals to change the Constitution, I will only mark them from above: the second level of self-government, leaving part of corporate tax profit and the tax of individuals in municipalities where they work and where the companies are registered. We believe that Bulgaria would function better if there was a two-chamber parliament. We believe that the President should be elected by these two chambers. In our opinion, the Institute of Vice-Presidents does not need and order such things that are really on the agenda. Let the changes start now, but I am telling you that the moment is ripe all of us responsible to think about changing the Constitution because it really needs such a change and this overall change can only happen by convening a Grand National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. Christov. [[GERB-SDS.]] A line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u60	Mr. Hristov, because you recall how the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is signed. At this tribune, a representative of the Ekovoglastnostnosto.. one Vodenicharov of the system came and signed this Constitution. In the name of this Constitution, you have taken an oath as MP. In the name of this Constitution Philip Dimitrov also swore, Georgi Markov also swore, so if you wish to have changes in this Constitution, which many of you of the UDF took advantage of, do so. Because the first swallow of change was then an eco-voting. The hopes of the people failed you of the UDF, then. So, please, please, just don't talk about the Constitution. If you wish to support the temporary committee, please join the temporary committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u61	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines to Rumen Hristov? There's no other line. Here you are for the coat, Lord Christ.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Georgiev! Just because we don't like the Constitution doesn't mean we don't respect it. A very large part of Bulgarian citizens do not like some laws, but they are obliged to comply with them and comply with them. I say the position of my political formation. This does not mean that all of our representatives who have performed different positions, by the way, we have two presidents, several prime ministers, who have sworn in this Constitution and have respected it. So whether we like it or not, I'm saying that she needs a change and that will happen sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u63	Thank you. To make a statement, Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u64	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u65	It's extended, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! First, I would like to express my satisfaction with the debate today, which sharply contrasted with the debate yesterday on the occasion of Mr. Tsatsarov's resignation. And here I would like to congratulate my colleague from "We are continuing the Change." I apologize, I forgot your name, because you still found the strength in yourself and left, and to some extent apologize, or rather correct what you said yesterday. That's how it's done. Sometimes under the influence of emotion, we say things we probably shouldn't, and we cross a line. And with the exception of my colleague at IN, his, in my opinion, a rather inappropriate statement against the background of a rather constructive debate, I think it should be. When we talk about constitutional reform, this is not an easy task. It requires that we greatly exceed our own ego, our own political, selfish intentions, goals to show the public that we can actually look for common points and come up with something really meaningful. Now, with regard to the Commission that we are setting up today, let there be such a committee. How reasonable it is, how rational it is, given that we also have such a commission in place, and not a temporary one, but a permanent one, but a long one, but it is not so essential. I do have one remark, though, especially to Mr. Ivanov before you submit the proposal, perhaps before that all the parliamentary groups should have consulted each other, discussed this committee, if we were to create it, if we were to create it and not create it again as a kind of... This way it comes out a little like.. come on, we will now take the initiative and what happens. And here's the big question: do we really want something to happen, or are we just looking for some temporary dividend, or are we going to tell our voters tomorrow? Why did I mention yesterday's debate what you or most of the Chamber did not understand, why were we not actually opposed to Mr. Tsatsarov's resignation? We were against voting the resignation without Mr. Tsatsarov himself coming here to explain. He was the representative of this institution! It's the same as the Constitution. If we don't stop the interinstitutional war because it's been going on for a very long time, division in society will not lead to anything meaningful. Because, colleagues, note only my feeling that in society it is not a coincidence that 35%, for example, if this statistic is correct, are excited about judicial reform. It's extremely important. But why 35%?! And my answer is very simple because the word, the combination of judicial reform somehow began to wear itself out. It became cliché, it just doesn't make any sense behind it. Everyone goes out and says, yes, we are for judicial reform. Only that's not how it's done. In order for us to have real judicial reform, it is not to focus only on the Attorney General. Okay, remove it, change it. However, judicial reform is not just a prosecutor's office, it is a court of law. A very serious job is required if we really want to pass this test at this forty-seventh National Assembly. Because this is a test, a very serious test. We need to start talking to each other. We shouldn't take offense to mob organizations, because it's just very ridiculous, because we really insult our constituents. We are here at the will of these voters, not by the will of anyone, but by the will of the voters. I hope that this committee is set up, or if it is set up, or if such a Legal Committee is in place, will really pass this test, but in order to endure it, it must first dissipate the illusions or rather... I will allow myself to doubt that, in fact, more or less, there is just some vendetta going on here, for example, to one person or another, and not a really meaningful judicial reform, covering not just one part of the judiciary, but the entire judiciary. There really must be an extraordinary dialogue, transcending our own selfish notions of what we need to do to satisfy the desire and say something to our constituents. I hope, and naturally, we will participate in any form, quite constructively, because we have our proposals, and very serious proposals that have been made, with all our expertise. If the level of debate is what it is today, with few exceptions, then we could endure this really difficult test and do this difficult task. I hope we can do it together this time. That's how it's done! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u67	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, you said you wanted a dialogue that why didn't we invite you to this dialogue earlier? The establishment of this temporary parliamentary committee is therefore proposed on a parietal basis. Because the issue is extremely important, especially when it comes to reforming the judiciary system. Because it should be reformed precisely as a system along with its subsystems, with the related systems that should work in synergy. The rights and legitimate interests of citizens and economic operators should be placed at the heart of this reform. It is this dialogue that we hope to be held in this temporary committee, albeit for six months. This does not prevent, of course, this dialogue from being held in both the Permanent Parliamentary Commission and in all parliamentary committees. Why are we here after all, if not to defend the rights and legitimate interests of each of the Bulgarian citizens and of the business operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u69	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The second line is Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, I agree with the tone in which this debate started. However, I do not agree with the fact that everything is flowers and roses, especially with your thesis that we should not direct the reform to a particular person, which was already a personal vendetta, and everyone somehow swallows that thesis. It's not about one particular person at all! It is about the chief prosecutor of the state, who, during the Commission, at which we discussed the separation of authorities and the obvious fact that the executive authority then, in your person and the figure of the Prosecutor General, has contacts that are unacceptable. The same D.A. was texting with P.R. Sevi Boyko, which means he's communicating with the P.R. of the then Prime Minister. Starting this debate, I want to talk calmly and rationally. You have to agree that this is not about one person, but about the separation of authorities, which was extremely broken in those years when the Prime Minister was entering the Supreme Judicial Council, and they were on their feet when texting him about what was going on in the judiciary. You yourselves must first shift that what has happened is not right. You were part of this thing! You have to admit it to start this debate on the ground. That's what my line to you is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bojankov, I'll spare myself what I can say. I can say a lot of things in the way that, since this government was created, works and how it violates many rules, and it is precisely about this separation of powers that you mentioned, but I will not do it. GERB has been the subject of huge criticism for more than a year and a half. We heard all sorts of things about us, and even we began to disgust ourselves. It just turned out that we're some kind of villains, dark years, authoritarianism, totalitarianism, mafia organizations. You must appreciate the fact that we nevertheless, given the height to which we should be, and given the fact that more than 20% have sent us here to defend their interests, not only to them, but also to all citizens, I have told you that we are ready for debate. We are ready to support every sensible thing, every sensible proposal. Because I have already mentioned here, it is not a question of submitting a draft decision so that we can have a good debate, and it takes 160 MPs here, given that Parliament is quite fragmented. That takes a lot of willpower. As I saw just now, the rulers themselves have no uniform vision of what you want to do and what exactly you want to change, and because of that Mr. Hristo Ivanov just said. And that's why this time we don't come up with the introduction of the Constitutional Decision Project, but we start the other way, because you yourself have no common vision of how to change it. But it is a fact that without GERB, not as some threat, but at the will of the voters, it will be impossible to reach some final point in order to skip this test, this barrier. We're ready, despite all the insults, because that's how it's done. I think that's a reasonable position. It's up to you to soften your tone, stop insulting me. If you really want to reform, do it with our support, with our proposals, and not for example a simple example, for two days the Energy Commission can not make a draft decision so that we do not accidentally look at our draft decision for compensation of municipalities, hospitals and so on. That's not gonna happen! And the Constitution won't work, Mr. Bojankov. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u73	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Other statements by Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable importers! The first thing that makes an impression by looking at the draft decision that you have tabled is that it is signed by an incomplete coalition. Despite some of the coalition's demands that it would support the establishment of this temporary committee, it sounds rather insecure. Another part of the coalition puts new sympathies in the so-called constitutional reform. Here the question is: should a debate about constitutional changes begin at all when you yourself do not know what purpose you are pursuing. Some may find it a particularly important historical moment to establish this temporary parliamentary committee. However, as a realist, I would say, honourable Members, that even if it was created, although GERB said that you would receive support for the creation of this committee, do not expect miracles. Firstly, because the capacity of this ruling majority so far has not been clear at all. You don't have a management program! There have been some conversations at the mall, you've allocated your posts and you're still doing it, but so far there is no clear management program for one, two, three or four years. In this sense, requests for constitutional changes from this same majority, which even a management programme has not signed together, I consider just a good initiative. Secondly, perhaps you should ensure that the Constitution, the one that has been changed, your majority, the first requirement that it will set to citizenship and power, is that it is respected. Because don't you find it a little presumptuous that the majority, which supported and elected the prime minister who violated the Constitution, would like to make changes to the Constitution?! It sounds like an oxymoron! Thirdly, it seems to me that more and more often we need to train some of the MPs not only what is written in the Constitution, but how it is changed or how it is applied. My fellow Members, I remind you that there is a text in the current Constitution under which the right of initiative to amend and supplement the Constitution takes place with a quarter of the Members of the National Assembly or at the initiative of the President. And here's the question: what happened to that President's initiative a few years ago, has anyone seen it at all? You, of the majority, who applauded the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in his election and oath, who were behind the election campaign, do you know what changes in the Constitution the Presidential Institution envisages? Let's look at them too. Mr. Ivanov, you, I hope, have an idea of at least, as the main initiator and driver of the initiatives to change the Bulgarian Constitution. Something else I see that you have proposed a six-month period for the temporary committee in question to work. I do not discuss whether it is necessary to have such a commission, provided that there is a Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in the National Assembly. So, according to the current Constitution, the proposal to amend the Constitution by the National Assembly shall be dealt with no earlier than one month and no later than three of its entry. In this sense, Mr. Ivanov, I turn to you again because you are the main importer and speaker of the majority, how will you ensure that in 6 months a consensus will be found between the various parties from the ruling majority and the opposition so that you can meet this deadline, given that a national consensus, public energy and consensus is needed to change the Constitution? Too, too many contradictions in the very logic of constructing this proposal and in the proposal itself. However, we, as colleagues have also said, will support this initiative on condition, however. The condition is for the Commission to be chaired by the opposition or by the co-chair of the largest ruling party in the majority and the largest party in the opposition, respectively. I can now argue this proposal of mine, and I am doing it as an editorial proposal, Mr. Chairman. The two parties are continuing the Change, in fact We are continuing the Change is not a party, but some organization, and GERB are the two largest parliamentary groups in the composition of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. Together, without anyone else, we can submit a draft amendment to the Constitution if we decide. In this sense, it is most logical if you want support, if you want a conversation, to accept either GERB to receive the Presidential seat, or together in a co-chairship with [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, we're not haggling, and I argued my proposal. Otherwise, even if this committee starts functioning, because you, with the power of the majority, will choose it, no one can guarantee you that there will be a real change in the Bulgarian Constitution. Because, yes, if we're talking about a mathematical sum, without our parliamentary group, you can't. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u75	Mrs. Atanasova, your editorial proposals are just to specify where they are. Three?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u76	I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u77	Okay. Thank you. Are there any lines to Dessislava Atanasova? Krum Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, I'm missing the political elements and requests I'd like to answer in essence some of the things you said. The Prime Minister had violated the Constitution, you like to repeat this from the stand and there is a solution for a single action. Do you have any idea how many times the Constitutional Court has abolished laws voted on and proposed by your majority? Only in the Forty-fourth National Assembly were 16 such. [[Reply from DPS.]] So if Prime Minister Petkov violated the Constitution once, you violated it 16 times for just one term! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] If we go back to 2009, there'll be a lot more. I'm telling you to stop this game! [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] Our constitution, ladies and gentlemen, has provided for a mechanism that ends with a Constitutional Court whose members must soon be replaced here, by the way, in order to prevent violations. This mechanism is working. That's one. You also said about the President that he was declaring constitutional changes. By the way, such ideas for constitutional changes, especially in Chapter Six, are heard very often from different countries. I think that this is one of the reasons why such a committee with a long period of action is being organised - precisely so that all people who have taken part in the matter can place it in a normal centre of dialogue. In this sense, I welcome this way of action, not by putting any project forward, not by searching for automatic signatures and majorities, but with a centre where we can discuss the different ideas that have been launched over the years on this subject, including yours that we have discussed here, have a place in this committee. But there's one thing I agree with you about when you say: "Don't expect miracles." I heard at one time that GERB will support, I heard that they have ideas for a change in the Constitution, I heard other things. [[the President signals that time has run out]] But after you started putting conditions of a political nature, I realized that miracles can't be expected. But I'll tell you one thing: yes, you can block the adoption of constitutional changes in the judiciary, you have this power by virtue of the majority. But do not think that this means that you have some supreme power, because you will also take responsibility for it, and this responsibility is realized quickly. The fact that you are opposition is largely due to this. [[The President signals that time has expired. A line from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u79	Thank you. Is there another line to Dessislava Atanasova? Yavor Bozhankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u80	In fact, Mrs. Atanasova, it is not true that the ruling majority does not have a clear programme in the sector of justice. The special courts, which are already on the agenda, a reform of the KKCONPI, the Supreme Judicial Council, all of this is for the....................................the Coalition Agreement. One thing is disturbing about your behavior and it is that you constantly address these changes to the majority. If you do not recognise the status of a non-mafia organisation, if you do not put a chairman, and vice-president, this is not about your relations between opposition and majority, it is about your understanding and your responsibility to your constituents. Is there a problem in the judiciary, is there a problem with the powers of the Attorney General, is there a conviction on the high levels of power............................... and can this be the result of this and this be subject to changes that concern the Constitution? If you think there is, you are doing it not because of us, not because of the position of President, Vice-President of the Commission, not because of your status as a mafia or non-mafia organization........................ you are doing it for your constituents, your sense of justice and your understanding of what is right for Bulgaria, what is right for the judiciary. You're not doing this for anything else. This is not a bargain, this is the future of the judiciary, this is the rule of law in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u81	Thank you. Third line by Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, as I recall, October of 2020 you headed the Commission on amendments to the Constitution in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I will not comment on how the changes themselves were written, but then your majority tried to propose something. Now our majority will introduce our proposals for changes, you will be able to offer yours, and if consensus is found there will be seen who is constructive and who is looking for some political dividends. So I see no problem with the Temporary Commission being set up and everyone making their own proposals for constitutional changes. Give a good offer, why not be encouraged we will make ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u84	Thank you. During the lines. Mr. Zarkov, I was not referring to the intruder Petkov, but to the act of the President, which violated the Constitution because the Constitutional Court on this act ruled. Otherwise, we can talk a lot about unconstitutional acts. For example, in the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly there was a single act of the ruling majority to which you belonged, and it was for a moratorium, which the Constitutional Court immediately declared unconstitutional. One single act during the whole work of the Forty-Fiveth National Assembly, I would like to say it! [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] So on the subject with unconstitutionalness of the acts of the National Assembly, yes, there is an authority................................................................................................. the acts adopted by the National Assembly.............................................................................................................................................. Mr. Bojankov, you have not understood anything from the debate that is being held here once again, although I am not surprised. I am surprised otherwise that you, honourable Members, consider the establishment of this temporary committee to be some kind of litmus of integrity, some step towards morality. Just as yesterday, you passionately argued that resigning, which Mr. Tsatsarov has submitted at his will, not because of your efforts, is a first step towards reform! Well, that's not true, ladies and gentlemen! Now you are doing the same with this committee, you claim that this is some sort of historic moment. It's not like that. You know that is not the case, Mr. Ivanov, because many historical moments and many historical compromises have you experienced. But very soon these colleagues, politically unburdened, will understand the same thing. Regarding Mr. Ananiev. Yes, Mr. Ananiev, in 2020 on 2 September our Parliamentary Group, within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, submitted a Draft for a Constitutional Amendment which required the dissolution of the National Assembly and the convening of a Grand National Assembly. Then we had a prepared project, and now we have prepared proposals. From my memories, you were also in the National Assembly, only you were lying on the floor with Maya Manolova at that time. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u85	Are there any other speeches? Toshko Yordanov and Lyuben Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u86	Today's discussion, colleagues, is really useful for the simple reason to see who stands where. At the risk of being fined again, or whatever comes next as punishment, the hypocrisy of that part of the room is shining at this moment. . [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] Because yes, you suggested then some strange Constitutional Project written on a knee by a man who is no longer among you, I will not tell him the nickname on the Internet because he is not here to answer me. I don't give a shit what they say about me. . [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] I had no way to answer Mr. Bikov before because it was his duplicate speech, how we collapsed from first to fifth, to tell you, it doesn't matter because we are aware that by making political decisions, there may be consequences, but we think consistency is more important. But the good thing about three choices in a row is that you're not in the department. It doesn't matter if you're 65, 40 or 35 [[Applause from..We continue the Change..... BSP for Bulgaria...............................................................................................]] The important thing is that you are not and will not be in charge for a long time. And at the moment you continue to try again, this time from the stand, to bend your hands, offering a chair in this committee, which will eventually be formed, which again shows that you have no idea what the Constitution is and how important it is for Bulgaria. You're looking at your own interest to shove something up and make yourself important. Now you have the opportunity to answer me with lines and tell another lie, and I will have the opportunity to close the debate in this case. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u87	The line of Toma Bikov and Alexander Ivanov. Mrs. Atanasova, may I ask you about the written proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u88	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yordanov, your view of the time you will not be around for a long time is different from the normal idea, because five months seems like 12 years to you. I rather make a line for your misunderstanding about the function of this committee. We do not do this because, having co-chaired a temporary committee, it will give us terrible power and something who knows what else will happen. We make this proposal to ensure that you have guarantees that we will be committed to responsibility in this committee because you rely, continue to rely on that we consider you to be very moral and must a priori support you simply because you are some very moral people?! First of all, do not think that we believe that you are moral people! You think you're moral. We don't think you're moral. And now that we're quoting classics, Nietzsche has said that there's nothing more immoral than morality. And you've been doing this for a year. So if you want us to be truly involved with this committee, give us responsibilities. We're not just gonna stand by you because you're cool. There's no such thing as politics. If you believe that, then you don't know anything about this job. And that's why we're trying to do you a favor right now. If you understand it, you will get this service. If you don't understand him alive and well! You have enough capacity, as I see it, you will write reforms, you will accept them, and why do you need us then? Let's just give you some votes. You consider haggling and mathematically not us. This is an important topic for us, and if we do not have the opportunity to take responsibility and you take account of the vote of voters, it does not make any sense from this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u90	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u91	Mr. Yordanov, short line. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Yordanov, at the very least give an account of the Commission to which you broadcast the President, how many times has it been held, yet there is not even a report submitted by the Commission, Mr. Ribarski, for the Temporary Committee for Energy, that we should be looking at is not working, so we are offering you a co-chair from our group to assist the work and this committee to really exist and to meet. And the other thing, when you speak from this tribune of principled positions, it is nice to remember something, without insulting you, I hope, to remember your political leader who wanted to do some tattoos, that he would not enter the government with BSP, now you are ruling with BSP and are in coalition with them. First principled position you violated. Second principled position, Mr. Yordanov, without insulting you again, your relationship with Mr. Asen Vasilev does not interest me, but you, as far as I know, are in lawsuits because you from this tribune called him a criminal and so on, and he, as far as I know, has a case against you. So this is a second principled position that you've broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u92	Third line, Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Yordanov, I just said in my speech that it was a test for the National Assembly. Now I'm going to specify it's a test for the government. So far you're failing this test, I'll tell you which part. You started the National Assembly.. Forty-seventh, when the committees were allocated, you gave no chair to the opposition. You don't think that's necessary. In the same way for the parliamentary delegations, which both events have never happened, at least when I am in this Chamber. Whoever has always ruled has always respected precisely proportionality to this, as voters have desired. And it makes sense. Makes sense! This is about a Constitution, it's about something much more important. We are never lovers of these committees, we have said so several times. However, this is about something more important. A constitution without broad support in this House is not possible. We do not want a chair or a co-chair for the reason that someone will hang on to this medal, but because we really believe that this is a way to show, if you will, that we are ready, in this Chamber, in this Chamber, no matter how fragmented it is and no matter how much you do not love us and think that we are any organization, to show that we are ready for dialogue and that we can achieve something meaningful. So far, I'm telling you, Mr. Yordanov, you're failing this test that you're ready to hear the voice of others. Now let's see if you're ready to do it and take this decisive step today? This is the test for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u94	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u95	Thank you very much. In the order of tricks. To Mr. Bikov. Time. Of course we have a different relationship with it. I don't need to quote other people's thoughts that time is relative. The responsibility, in my opinion, is not whether you are co-chairs in the same committee, but what you will do in it. I mean, if you have any responsibility and you're trying to convince us of what you say you're sincere, you need to see inside this committee from your actions, not from whether you're co-chair or not, the other is a political demand. Secondly, Mr. Ivanov, who tried under the line: I will not insult you, and I will not insult you. In the last parliament, when Slavi said that thing, we did not make a coalition with BSP. We want the minority principle. We received no support from anyone, including BSP. In this parliament, the leading party is not us. And by the way, we have a coalition agreement with.. We continue the Change. As for Asen Vassilev, where I have retreated, which I have retreated from, given that he has filed a lawsuit, and we will continue this dispute either in the courtroom or we will clear it between us. What have I given up on my principle in the case of Mr. Asen Vassilev? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So, please, no offense, watch your mouth! Mr. Nenkov, first of all, the chairmanship of the committee, you refused. You were offered, you refused.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u96	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u97	I think he was on the Committee of Religion, and you turned him down. Religions. As for whether we hear the opposition's voice, we heard about the moratorium on electricity prices and voted on your proposal. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u98	Thank you. Mr. Dilov, you're scheduled to speak. You have about a minute, a minute and a time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I beg your condescension, give me at least 30 seconds on top! Dear colleagues, things seem quite simple to me. I listened carefully to the whole debate. If you do not agree with our proposal, at least personally, I will have the feeling that what we will do will not be a parliamentary committee that will lead us to a Grand National Assembly, as said by my colleague Hristov, or to amendments to the Constitution, will be another psychoanalytic cabinet in which some people will be speaking on this troubled topic. I feel like my life has passed with two things: with Lily Ivanova and with judicial reform. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] While I can expect uncompromising quality from Lily Ivanova, fierce talent, cruel hard work, judicial reform is right at the opposite pole. Some screams that are constantly passing into dissents, which are constantly noticeable, the people who most talk about judicial reform, most often tinkle the judicial laws, and we continue to listen to them and believe in their moral authority to deal with this reform. I don't remember a proposal that wasn't made by the so-called city right, important for judicial reform. That the current Attorney General has not been elected, Mr. Ivanov, correct me if I am mistaken, I will apologize by the rules that you created and invented? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I'm done, our parliamentary group's proposal is simple. The only guarantee that this committee will work consciously is the model that we proposed to you a short time ago....................................in the management of the committee. Otherwise, we will lie on the leather couches in this committee and speak aloud to the psychoanalyst what our erotic relations with judicial reform are. [[GERB-SDS lines]] [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Krum Zarkov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, the treatment of psychoanalysis goes through recognition of the problem and its speech. And as a matter of fact, it is quite normal that 30 years of judicial reform is being talked about and this issue is constantly exciting the Bulgarian public, political life, various parties are interested in or against it for the simple reason that it is only about fighting for the construction of a European state. And this country isn't over. If the transition that started with the adoption of the Constitution, which entered into force on 13 July 1991, quickly and radically realised the transition from one economic system to another, then building the mechanisms that prevent this economic system from acting only for a few people to be able to circumvent the law, it was never built to the end. This is a continuous struggle of people who are doing something successful or unsuccessful, others who are resisting, who sometimes prevail, which is the political history of the last 30 years and it is perfectly normal for some to be bored. I'm sick of it, too. I therefore call on you to finally take steps to move to another level of political development, in which we will not talk about judicial reform, but about the redistribution of the goods that the Bulgarian people create for the left, for the right, but we have not reached that point. Ladies and gentlemen, some in this room are more guilty than others why we haven't gotten there, but I'm putting it aside. And to the interim committee, I would like to make it clear that the current Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is, in my opinion, the best legal document that has been drawn up in our country. This Constitution guarantees and makes it so that parliamentaryism and democracy eventually prevailed and prevailed. This Constitution contributed to Bulgaria being a member of the European Union. This Constitution and those who created it in 1991 deserve our respect. And the change in it should not be considered as questioning its main postulates. It must be seen as a way to be improved because our Constitution, among other things, has foreseen a way in which to be changed, improved, adapted to time. And this is also a very good way of doing that, on the one hand, it allows you to set up committees such as the one we are looking at to bring concrete, precise and accurate changes. On the other hand, the Institute of the Grand National Assembly hinders political fins that question the foundations of the nation and our democracy. So this part of its Constitution is very good, and most of the parts of the Constitution, including the practical... The Charter of Rights and Freedoms contained in it, are very good and must be treated with respect and I would say even with awe. Therefore, this approach of setting up a committee that will have enough time and which will be built on a parietal principle is the right approach. We cannot hide that for years there has been talk of changes in the Constitution in one particular part of it. These changes are spoken, discussed and should be channeled in the National Assembly. This cannot happen between two other laws in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let, since we will talk about this topic, it be sufficiently studied and thought out to resist improvisation. This is the respect due to the Constitution and its creators. In this context, the need for an in-depth discussion, which is mentioned in the motives, deserves to be supported. Who exactly will chair the committee is a secondary issue, however, it is important that it is created on a monetary principle and in my opinion it should bring into its work and to the National Assembly the academic community, the constitutional circles and in general the entire civil society dealing with this issue. I conclude with the following: changes, if necessary, yes, with respect and awe to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and those who created it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Krum Zarkov? I won't. To make a statement, Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We fully support the establishment of this committee, not because it is proposed by "Democratic Bulgaria", perhaps it is one of the political forces that has an undisputed merit for the imposition of the issue. "Judicial reform and the rule of law in Bulgaria, not because we are in the ruling coalition, nor because the Venice Commission, monitoring reports and all international mechanisms tell us to do so. We support the establishment of this committee because this debate must begin because we have such a commitment to our constituents and because we are guided by a clear understanding that there is a problem in the judiciary, its resolution goes through a change in legislation, but also through a change in the Constitution. Because we are aware that the replacement of one Attorney General with another will not solve the problem, as it is obvious that several chief prosecutors are changing, but the systemic problem remains, and it is rooted in the too broad powers, in the hierarchy itself, in the vertical structure of the state prosecution. We support this committee because we believe that the Supreme Judicial Council should function differently because the judicial system cannot change to the desired extent without changing the Constitution itself how it will be the subject of this committee. And we don't do it because we want a presidential seat or we don't want a presidential seat because we have some old debate with the opposition or we want revenge by not giving them a presidential seat. When people went out to protest because of the actions and in general the structure of the Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria, GERB offered them a new Constitution in which the Prosecutor's Office had a legislative initiative. I have a doubt that GERB can lead this debate, in fact, they can head it when they do, however, realize that they have gone the wrong way. Today I did not see such a signal, I did not see that there were even some starting colleagues to say: yes, then we were wrong and in all our concept of changing the Constitution and about their positions in terms of protests and positions in terms of the Attorney General. I therefore think that they can hardly lead this debate, but any of us can make our proposals, any of us can tell where we see this change. If we have enough common and common points, such a change will happen if we don't, it won't happen. But it is not for the government, not for the presidency, for the Bulgarian citizens to go this way, to make this debate and everyone in it to position themselves, to say where it belongs and on which side it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines to Yavor Bozhankov? There are no lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the debate. Will Mrs. Atanasova make the specific proposals? [[Definitions between President Nikola Minchev and MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Honourable Members, we are going to vote. First of all, we will vote on Dessislava Atanasova's editorial proposal, which is: 3 the word "President" to be replaced by "two co-chairs" on one of the parliamentary group of the "Keep the Change" and by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ. This is Dessislava Atanasova's editorial proposal. Please vote. Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u105	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u106	Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u107	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u108	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u110	And Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u111	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u112	Thank you. Vote in the Chamber 189 MPs and 4 online.. total 193: for 62 in the Chamber and 1 online.. total 63, against 117 in the House and 2 online.. 119, abstentioned 10 in the Chamber and 1 online...................................................... 11............................................................................................................................................................................ The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on the import text. Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u113	OJ L
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u114	Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u116	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u118	And Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u119	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u120	Thank you. Vote in the House 169 MPs and 4 online " 173" total: 131 in the Chamber and 3 online. 134 in total, against 38 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 39 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to nominations for the provisional committee. From the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" who will present the nominations? Peter Kulenski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group we continue the Change we offer Stoyu Stoev and Rena Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u122	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. On behalf of GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, GERB-SDS parliamentary group will not propose members of the Temporary Commission. We believe that we have made efforts to have constructive dialogue in order to have consensus on a topic that excites Bulgarian society. You didn't accept the hand, so have a good job. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u124	Thank you. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? The DPS does not propose members of the Temporary Commission. We are going to BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we propose as Commissioners Philip Popov and Yavor Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u126	Thank you. There is such a people, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group there is such a people who are members of the Commission we propose Mrs. Iva Miteva and Mr. Andrey Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u128	Thank you. The Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Mr. Atanas Slavov and Mr. Hristo Ivanov as a member. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u130	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party REGION, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the parliamentary group of a party, we will not propose members for this committee [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] since we have failed to be convinced of its appropriateness and we believe that in such vain temporary projects that aim only to beat the ball and simulate some reforms, we do not want to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u132	I'm opening a discussion on the nominations. I am closing the discussion. I do not see anyone who wishes to speak. We're going to vote on the nominations. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u134	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u136	And Peter Chobanov? Vote in this House 126 MPs and 2 online " 128" total: 125 in the Chamber and 2 online " 127" total, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That's the end of it. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask the President to read clearly what will be the agenda for today and tomorrow, or at least for today, so that we know what we are going to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u138	On the agenda, as we voted yesterday, there were no changes. So far, it's: Draft decision to set up a Temporary Commission. We've passed this point. The next bill is: First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance First vote on the Bill on Covered Bonds; First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act; First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Investment Promotion Act; First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection; First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. These are all the items on the agenda for today. For tomorrow there is parliamentary control according to the order of art. 104 "Blitzcontrol," and regular parliamentary control under the Programme. Procedure by Zhecho Stankov. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I'm taking a procedure regarding yesterday's conversation from the stands. You have made a commitment that you will assist the minutes of yesterday's extraordinary meeting of the Energy Committee to be able to join the National Assembly. We have made an inquiry through our technical secretaries at the Energy Commission. The protocol has not yet entered the National Assembly. Yesterday we commented several times with both you and the Members of the National Assembly that in the end the agenda of the National Assembly is determined not by the vote of 240 Members of Parliament, but by the public, so I ask you once again for assistance, to actually coordinate the work of the Chairs of Committees, so that administratively it meets the expectations of both the Members of the National Assembly and the Society. Another request regarding the procedure. Yesterday I personally had the following case in which the Energy Commission and the Economic Commission met at the same time. After expressing my desire to still make some kind of shift in order to be able to participate in both committees, I had to choose which committee is more important to me so that I could attend it. So what I am really proposing is that you make a common internal chat between all the chairmen and be able to coordinate with you the conduct of the committees so that, depending on the members of the committee, all those entitled to attend are not prevented but able to act. And the last part of my procedure is: with a request to note to the Committee Chairs that there is no way, after we have informed in the evening that a draft budget of the National Assembly has been received, the next day these 410 pages will be put into committee without the possibility of being examined, secretly, without being commented on to the committee itself, including by the ruling majority, there will be, so to speak, one question in detail relating to the bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u140	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. The report from the Commission's work suggests that it has not been deposited since yesterday and after the plenary day, the Commission's work has continued until late, but I will speak to the President of the Commission again. On the other issue, unfortunately, there is an overlap in the work of the committees and sometimes it is necessary for MPs to choose which committee to participate on a particular day. There's an organization, we're doing everything we can to minimize these cases. Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! For years on the date 1 February, the memory of the victims of the communist regime is noted. There are innocent victims, and not a lot of them. This is a unconditional and non-conferenceable fact. However, there are also two other facts that there are convicted criminals with proven crimes, and national traitors, and that before 1944 there were just as many innocent victims of the regime that ran it. These are also two categorically established facts beyond denial, and their denial must be stopped. In Bulgaria, in 1918, a civil war was launched with the Warrior Uprising. In the coming years, white terror and red terror took turns, thousands of Bulgarians lost their lives because of their beliefs. After 1944 the victims of the royal regime were heroised, after 1989 it was time to heroize the victims of the communist regime. Is it right to ask the question right? It's time to find out there's no civil war and there can be no winners. There are only defeated and this is the whole people... in this case the Bulgarian people. As long as there's only one victim's day and the others are completely denying it, the war, although now only information and propaganda, will continue to separate us. Are the murdered children in Hawk and the chopped into pieces eaten by the police dogs bodies of the children Vassil and Sava Kokareskovi in Belitsa not as innocent victims as Professor Alexander Stanishev and Ivan Beshkov, for example? How do we decide that we have the authority to determine who is the victim and who is not? We believe that we need a day of national reconciliation in which the heirs of one and the others stand side by side and bow their heads in general grief. The days of memory must unite, not divide. That is why February 1st as the Day of the Victims of the Communist regime divides our nation. After the Spanish Civil War, which lasted three years from 1936 until 1939, in which more than one million Spanish died, the victorious dictator Franco ordered the bones of those who died in almost three years of battle for the Spanish capital to move to Madrid to the Valley of the Fallen, where a huge pantheon was built next to each other without order, both communists and phalangists, both fascists and Democrats, both monarchists and Republicans. Franco himself wishes to be buried there next to those who fired at him. At the top it says: "They fell for the fatherland. " - And that's all. Today, Spain has completely closed this page of its past despite the unimaginable victims and the severe wound at the heart of the Spanish nation. We, in turn, continue to fight communism, and although our common victims are dozens of times, thank God less than those in Spain, we continue to dig through their bones and divide them. It is good to draw the lessons as mature people, as mature Bulgarians. We Bulgarians from the Bulgarian Revival have made our conclusions "For us Bulgaria is above all else." Everyone who has given his life for his beliefs and for his country deserves respect, and we give it to him, no matter what ideology he believed. Peace be upon the souls of the dead for the motherland! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. We move on to item two of the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. There has been a report from the Leading Commission dealing with the Draft Law, namely the Commission on Electronic Governance and Information Technology. I ask Mr. Simeonov to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u143	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 47-202-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2022. The Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies at an extraordinary meeting held on 1 February 2022 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Minister Bozidar Bojanov. At the beginning of the presentation of the Bill, he stressed the reasons why the draft regulatory act was required. The proposed project is related to the National Assembly decision adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 13 December 2021. (prom., D.V., No. 106 from 2021) , which designates Minister of Electronic Governance, creates the Ministry of Electronic Governance and transforms the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The draft of an act is in line with the Joint Management Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria 2021 on strengthening trust in state institutions to work in the interests of citizens and businesses to stimulate innovation, digital environment and e-government. The reasons for the draft Law indicate that the draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance aims at conferring all the powers exercised by the President of the State Agency (SEA) in the field of electronic management and the powers in the field of information technology to the Minister of Electronic Governance. It is envisaged the closure of the State Agency of Electronic Governance and is entrusted to the Council of Ministers to arrange the issues related to the closure of the State Agency of Electronic Governance and the passage of the Ministry of Information Technology and Communications to the Ministry of Electronic Governance. First of all, the proposed bill creates conditions for the establishment of a body for the implementation of the e-government policy, which will conduct state policy in the field of e-government and in the field of information society and information technology in interaction with other executive bodies. Next, the Law defines the powers of the Minister of Electronic Governance. They are the following: - to develop and import for adoption by the Council of Ministers Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria and strategies in the field of information technology and information society and to ensure their implementation; - implement projects relevant to all administrations in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; - prepare projects of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society and ensure the implementation of international treaties in these areas; - ensure the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society related to its membership in the European Union and international organisations, including by representing the Republic of Bulgaria in international organisations in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; - to support the development and introduction of standards and standardisation documents relating to electronic management, information technology and information society; - participate in the work of international standardisation organisations and technical standardisation committees in the Republic of Bulgaria related to electronic management, information technology and information society; - to promote investment programmes and projects in accordance with priorities in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; - to coordinate interdepartmentally in the preparation and submission of draft legislative acts of the Council of Ministers in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society; - to exercise other powers provided for by law or by any other regulatory act. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill also provide for amendments to all laws which terminate the powers and empower the Minister of Electronic Governance in the field of electronic management, information technology and information society. After the presentation of the Bill in relation to art. 73, para. A public discussion of the bill was held by 10 of the sub-conferences. The President of the Commission presented the views of the non-governmental organisations sent to the Commission. The Bulgarian Association of Software Companies (BASCOM), the Association of Innovations, Business Services and Technologies (ABEST) and the Bulgarian Association of Information Technologies (BAIT) have no objections and no comments and support the Bill. The Bulgarian Startup Association (BESCO) expresses its positive opinion and supports the changes described in the Bill. The opinion of the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization 26, of letter................................................................... 2 of art. 7c, as it is contained in item 7. 27 of the same letter, paragraph, and member of the Bill. It is also available for editing of t. 27 and Appendix to §10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which refers to changes in art. 213a of the Election Code in the Bill. The members of the Commission discussed and adopted the opinions received by the listed NGOs. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. It contains the problems of solving, objectives, options of action, analysis of the impacts and possible effects of the adoption of the Bill. In addition, a Report on the compliance of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The opinion of the Ministry of Justice through the Directorate-General of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights is that the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. A report on the submission of proposals from the public consultations on the bill has been attached to the Bill. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts and the Decree on its implementation. People's representatives Kiril Simeonov, Rosen Zhelyazkov, Nikola Dimitrov, Stoil Stoilov and Alexander Nestorov took part in the discussion of the Law. They asked questions to the importers of the Draft Law relating to the transformation of the Agency for Electronic Governance in the Ministry and the preservation of the Agency's personnel, concerning the proposal of the BIS for some of the functions of the Minister and the extension of the scope of the activities the Ministry will deal with, as well as for a different approach to e-government. At the end of the discussion, the MPs expressed their support for the Bill. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 14 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 47-202-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u144	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Dear Minister, would you like the floor on the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Simeonov presented the details of the bill. In a nutshell, they transfer the powers from the State Agency to the Minister of Electronic Governance and a small part of the powers of the Minister of Transport in the field of Information Technology. They are also arranging the closure and the corresponding transformation of the State Agency "E-Governance" so that we can effectively implement the e-Governance policy, already having a combination of state bodies, i.e. employees who have experience in this thing, with political will and political level, which is the Ministry of Electronic Governance. Thank you in advance for your support for this bill. It is only the beginning, only the basic structural change, which we will follow with many changes in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am opening the discussion on the Bill and on the Report. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, during the Commission one of the MPs of the European Parliament Continue The Change asked a question about the remuneration of the specialists who will work in the new ministry. You replied that we would probably not be able to afford competitive salaries for this area. Here comes my question: since we cannot afford competitive salaries especially in the sector of Cybersecurity, what will guarantee the security of state agencies, businesses and our personal data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u148	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u149	For better or worse programmers in the public administration there must be little. The ministry will make e-government policies and will not program the systems themselves. We have an adequate and highly qualified private sector on which we rely, as well as the support of the service in service, which is the right hand of the state in this policy. The problem with the qualification of staff dealing with this type of innovative policies really exists, but I can assure you that we have tools to solve this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Stoil Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I would like to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of.. We continue the Change...... that we support this bill. It establishes the basic conditions for the establishment of the necessary e-government administration to support the Minister, implement and implement policies in the field of e-government. As the minister himself said, a ministry is being established from the current structure of the State Agency and the Directorate of Information Technologies at the Ministry of Transport. We had a consensus of our committee on this bill with 14 votes for abstention and only one. We also have the support of associations in the portfolio of Bascom, BAIT, AIBEST, BESCO. We also have support from the public consultations made and the opinions of the public are reflected. I appeal to you to support this bill from all sides of this House. We really want to have a great focus on e-government during this government and this National Assembly, and we hope to achieve significant results in the digitalisation of the state. I would be happy to receive support for this bill from all sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u152	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to express the attitude of the parliamentary group of the people who will support the Law in the first vote. Of course, I would also like to say a few important things that will be extremely closely monitored and on which our focus will not be diverted all the time until the second vote in this House. First of all, the Minister mentioned the service and that is where I want to start. I would like to remind you that the service was at the heart of many scandals. That is why we need a clear structuring of the activities in the service of service, the way in which they will be carried out, the control that will be exercised over these activities, and the well-defined processes with the controls of these processes so that funds are not leaked, or the leak of information and data from the service of the service. Personally, I express my concerns that I still do not trust not to say full, but I do not trust the transparency of everything that is going on in service. That is why I ask the new ministry, which is being formed and in the face of the Minister, to have clarity of the Members of the National Assembly on how and in what way will the activities of the Office be organised; what controls will be exercised in this activity and how will they perform the function so that there is indeed a guarantee of traceability of the processes in this agency? The other thing I would like to draw attention to is the cybersecurity that we are so talking about, we also had a special hearing here about security, and in particular about the cybersecurity of Bulgaria, of the country, right in this direction for me, it is important that cybersecurity is not under the same hat with everything that is managed as processes in electronic governance. Why? Because cybersecurity should be separated from the point of view of operational activity. We can't have operational and cybersecurity under the same hat. That's my opinion. I suppose colleagues in our parliamentary group also share this opinion, as cybersecurity must guarantee the way data is used, whether it is open, shared, or closed data. These data must convince all of us the MPs and society that they are managed in a way that has nothing to do with the operational processes in the implementation of electronic governance. And electronic control, just to remind you, is nothing but a mirror of what the government is at the moment, but this mirror must be with a very clear image, as it is in all other European countries. The dynamics that can give such e-government must be controlled by an authority to which we can somehow guarantee independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u154	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The fact is that this law does only reflect the decision of the National Assembly to form a composition and structure of the Council of Ministers. There is no so-called change in ideology, a re-conceptualization of the sphere of governance, e-government. There may also be a lack of requests from the ruling coalition that there will be an abbreviation of the administration. On the contrary, it's going to be totally the opposite. However, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is for the development of high technology and e-government since the end of the last century, honourable Members, and that is why at this stage we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u156	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Lyubomir Karimanski's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nestorov, in this law there can be no norm or any process that leads to a reduction of some administration. There's no way in this law it's gonna be. In my opinion, what you are saying from this tribune is untenable to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u158	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there any other lines to Alexander Nestorov? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Karimansky, yes, it is, after all, a new sector, now a ministry. However, there are some moments when it is said that there must first be stabilisation in legislation, and we in the Commission have concluded that this is only a first step, then we will make a second amendment, a third amendment, and the honourable minister has confirmed it today, an executive agency will be set up. Perhaps part of the procedures in which Bulgaria is on the scale in front of our international partners is precisely due to the lack of such stability in the legislation. And with regard to the reduction of administration, I agree that there is no way to have it, but these are the requests of the ruling majority when entering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u160	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Tsoncho Ganev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u161	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I understand that you have recently been in this position, and I understand that even to date, your ministry is unlikely to act operationally as it should be. I sincerely hope that the entire ministry will work at a much greater and faster pace. In this regard, we in the ARCHEGATION believe that national security is unacceptable, because cybersecurity is part of national security, because this cybersecurity is not just a database of parliament or a database of the Council of Ministers, here is absolutely everything related to the state as a state. It is unacceptable for us to entrust this to outside companies. Yes, we know very clearly that in Bulgaria there are some of the most brilliant specialists who work for both Bulgarian and foreign companies. It is very clear to us that it is much easier to delegate and pay foreign companies to do so, but they are not part of the state, they are not part of the national security. We believe that, given that we have even, I don't know how much from here those present know, but we will submit a concrete bill of change, that we have a Financial Supervision Commission which is reassigned to year 20 million for salaries, bonuses and current expenditures related to offices and cars, and the state has given them this money to use. We believe that for cybersecurity this should be one of the really serious priorities of the state, in particular you as a minister, and this thing that we observe to give to external companies is unacceptable to us. We don't have to come up with the hot water. We can look at a number of countries, not to say all developed countries, that this is really part of the country. It's not normal to delegate to outside private companies to protect our database for absolutely everything. In this room it has been heard and commented from a really high level that our cybersecurity is at an extremely low level and that our really important strategic sites, structural-determining objects, have everything else, but not a guaranteed database and any functioning. If their security is compromised, we will cease to function as a state. That is why my appeal is, beyond this bill, which will now be voted on, we will not support it precisely because of all these arguments, to rethink you as Minister and in the Council of Ministers to put cybersecurity as one of the leading topics, because nowadays, when this is not a priority and both conventional wars and wars that are in cybersecurity and related to Internet security, it is really not normal to delegate rights and obligations to foreign companies and then give them the hope that they will perform them correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u163	Dear Members of Parliament, indeed the topic of cybersecurity is very important. It was affected by two MPs, so I allow myself to comment on it. However, we need to distinguish the cybersecurity policies that will be in the Ministry, namely what good practices the ministries must observe and not just the ministries, how they should be controlled in compliance with these practices and so on. We need to separate this from the operational monitoring of systems, which is a separate task, which we need to separate from the operational monitoring of critical systems and those that really relate to national security. I am firmly confident that, both in our services and in, as I said in the Service of Information, which are state-owned, there are sufficient experts to be able to secure the functions of these really critical systems. The country also operates not only critical systems and we can use external capacity for them. As for being a priority, my personal expertise is precisely in cybersecurity, and I can therefore guarantee you that it will be at the highest level so that we can raise the really unsatisfactory level of cybersecurity at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u164	Thank you. [[The National Representative Nikolai Radulov wants the floor.]] Are you talking about a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u165	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u166	Okay, I'll put you on the record. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u167	Mr. Minister, you have just commented and said that there is no money at stake to secure the state at the moment the necessary people with the necessary payment. Believe me, we from the age will support you in every way to give money for this thing. We believe that national security should be a priority in order for Bulgaria to have at all. It is cybersecurity that is related to having the necessary specialists who are employees of Bulgaria and not of the company "H" which is whether Bulgarian, or foreign, is still a private company. We don't have to save money on this thing and we will support you if you have it as a priority in order for the state to hire such people to be its employees, to take care of security not only for ministries and ministries' sites, but all structural-determining enterprises really need a much more professional attitude. At the moment it's gone and we all know it, you probably know it best, but it's not normal to give it to outside companies. We will support you if you have a vision to change it and I think that we as a country can afford to hire Bulgarian specialists to work in Bulgaria and not to go abroad, even under the hat of the Ministry.. There is nothing wrong if they receive the necessary payment for their really highly qualified work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u168	Thank you. Welcome from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria we will support the submitted bill at first reading. I think it is high time for us to get real electronic governance and for the state to come into its power and start controlling the implementation of all the parameters set out in the plan. It is also time for the political will that has been shown to become an action, and I am very pleased that we are actually discussing such a bill, that we are discussing what is important, what is necessary, and that we hope we are aware of the importance of any change, the importance of both cybersecurity and of electronic identification and of many other factors for both public administration and citizens and businesses. And let's continue with this dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u170	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! My line is provoked, of course, by the word that is constantly used by the people in charge of change. I am worried about something I expressed in the Commission, Mr. Minister, at the first meeting we had. We, yes, are changing something, we want to change something, our colleague from the parliamentary group said that we will support this bill at first reading, but the Agency, which is of poor fame, and because we are talking in figures and spending, there are talking about over 2 billion spent money over the last 10 years. My recommendation to you was to ask for a report, to prepare a report: what in recent years this agency has assigned, to whom and where this money has been spent because we, as a result of electronic governance, are currently not seeing anything. I am very impressed with your ideas and I want to achieve the results that the public expects of us, but if we go with this poor reputation of the Agency and we prove to be the successor of this agency, I do not think that we will be able to take this into account in the proper way to the citizens of the state. My line in this regard is yes, we are changing something, but it is good to distinguish ourselves from the bad model, and it is for such a serious amount we are talking about. Thank you. [[National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u172	Wait a minute, Mr. Karimansky. Is there another line? I won't. Do you want a hole, Mr. Kirilov? No. Mr. Karimanski for procedure. Come in for a procedure, we've run out of this part.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way it is conducted very quickly. I very much ask that no lines, duplicates, or any statements outside the scope of what we consider to be a bill be allowed to be made. What my colleague has done is for the Committee on Electronic Governance. It has nothing to do with this bill that we are looking at, and if it wants to, let it be put there in the Commission. What does the budget now have to do with what we look at as a bill? Let's have a debate that really gets to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u174	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u175	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I listened carefully to the MPs who spoke before me. In fact, what they were talking about was cybersecurity, not cybersecurity, because cybersecurity is a much wider concept, and when cybersecurity is ignored, great damage is caused to the country concerned. I'm just going to mark that the United States of America loses about 50 billion a year to a cyber-espionage that is mostly done by China. I believe that this law will give an opportunity to create a germ of a national structure in the near future, I hope, which deals with cyber-intelligence and cyber-control intelligence, something that all modern states have bet on and if they have not yet created such a structure, are now in the process of creating. Such a structure is necessary because there is no country that has not assigned its intelligence tasks to become a powermaker. We need to know that the world is changing very rapidly. You see this thing when you look at your phones. Something that ten years ago was impossible is now possible. A giant computer is in your pocket. Everything is gradually being transferred to the virtual world. This means that all the crimes that you hear about and that you believe are possible are also being committed in this world. This means that cybersecurity tasks are very wide. More and more day-to-day activities and work activities will move into the field of cyberspace, and that means that it is something much greater than the safety of existing or those systems that are currently being created. So let us try with this law to initiate a modern structure for national security. And I'm going to take occasion from a statement that our companies have to work. Yes, indeed, it is good if our companies could accomplish anything that concerns the structuring of both government and all security systems. But I've been in the security services for many years, and I know how much we relied on foreign specialists who were given to us by the relevant intelligence and counterintelligence services around the world, to the United States, to England, to France. So we shouldn't shut down the possibility of foreign companies specializing in these tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u176	Thank you, Mr. Radulov. Are there any lines to Mr. Radulov? Ilin Dimitrov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to strongly support Mr. Radulov, as we had a conference this year on cybersecurity in tourism. 76% of hotels hit by a cyber attack do not recover. This is a loss of data, a total outflow of clients. I do not want to comment on the credit cards with which the services have been paid, what damage can be done, so we strongly support it. We have a huge problem because we are practically an open door and we need this law. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u178	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Another line to Mr. Radulov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u179	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am interested to clarify first what our companies mean, because in recent months we have seen our appointments, appointments of relatives, relatives and now we are hearing from the stands our companies - do you want to say foreign or possibly companies of Ivo Prokopiev. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u180	Mr. Bayram, who was that line to? Is it for Mr. Radulov? [[Noise and lines.]] Is there a third line to Mr. Radulov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The ministry, which is being established, the esteemed Minister is here, this is the successor of the State Agency. It has very specific functions and has a Law on this agency. For the cybersecurity that everyone has said is extremely important, but in 2018, with a last change, a 2020 amendment, this is the Cybersecurity Act. There are very clearly distinguished functions, including the former Director of the State Agency. There is an exception from it and this Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Interior, different types of special services is said how all this is managed. Of course, this cybersecurity law, in light of the establishment of the ministry, must also introduce certain amendments. As far as our companies are concerned. My personal opinion, honourable Members, has such hardware that simply cannot be created in Bulgaria, cannot be served, and when talking about foreign companies, it should be borne in mind that we have allies - these are allies in NATO. It really takes a lot of attention in this regard, but it should not be speculated and a little bit of insulting to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u182	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Radulov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u183	Dear colleagues, I was surprised by the idea that our companies are companies of my mother, my father, my aunt's. I think that in the context of what we are talking about, I mean that our companies are Bulgarian and if anyone thinks that anything else I have meant, I apologize. This is about Bulgarian companies. But from another point of view, I must tell you that we are also members of the European Union and NATO, so, although I am not saying about them our companies, these are companies that we can work with. I, of course, prefer Bulgarian specialists to work, I prefer Bulgarian specialists to work in electronic government, Bulgarian government and to work in special services. And this is another issue that we will probably be discussing, but we need these specialists to secure them with at least the minimum average wage for the sector -- that's about 5,000. And we need to keep that in mind. But our specialists are these specialists - Bulgarian specialists, not Turkish, not Chinese, but Bulgarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u184	Thank you, Mr. Radulov. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u185	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I really don't know how much we need this law. Mainly, it replaces the word of the agency's chairman with the minister, the agency with the ministry and a change takes place. Indeed, we have very many ministries, very many ministers. So much that it was even comical when the President's oath didn't have enough chairs for them, so they sat two people in one chair. However, obviously the number of ministries is agreed in the ruling coalition so as to properly serve the distribution of pizza according to Djankov, the budget, according to the electoral burden of the individual partners in the coalition. Indeed, the problem is very serious, indeed our data of Bulgarian citizens are leaking in all directions. A huge amount of data in any direction including facial recognition, including any data that we do not imagine to be collected and processed to our advantage or rather to our harm. I really hope, anyway, that this law will be voted out and the Ministry will enter into its duties as the successor of the Agency, and we will no longer have a chair of the Agency, but I very much hope that this will indeed respond to the extreme weight and the extreme seriousness of the situation with the use and processing of personal data, because if our specialists, both software and hardware, are really good, our country is currently extremely behind the challenges in the modern world and needs them. I really hope that the transition from an agency to a ministry will be for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u186	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Replices to Mr. Drenchev? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I'm putting an end to the discussion on the bill. Colleagues, before we proceed to the first vote on the Bill, I would like to make a procedural proposal. On the agenda for yesterday there were two points which we did not reach, which are related to filling the composition of the parliamentary secretaries and filling the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. The two points of the draft decision to elect a secretary of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly and a draft decision to change the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. The points were four and five according to the National Assembly programme for this week, we did not reach them yesterday. I propose that they be examined today after the conclusion of this point, I understand that there is also a Commission meeting that is not fully in line this afternoon and both are from the quota of the "There is such a people." This is my procedural proposal to consider these two points after the end of this. I request a vote on my procedural proposal. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u188	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u190	And Peter Chobanov? 138 MPs voted in the Chamber and 2 online. 140 total: for.120 in the Chamber and 2 online total.. 122, against 7, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u192	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u194	And Peter Chobanov? 141 MPs voted in the House and 2 online The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose the time limit for written proposals under art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of the Environment, No 47-1-2-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, to be extended by another 14 days and to become maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u196	Excuse me, Mr. Genov, which bill? This is the bill we went through last week? Okay. First of all, we move on to the first vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, which we have been discussing so far. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u198	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u200	And Peter Chobanov? 148 MPs voted in the House and 2 online "150" in total: for " 139" in the House and 2 online total " 141," against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to the vote on the proposal of... Yeah? Explanation of negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are opposed to it because national security cannot and should not be left in the hands of private companies. It's a game of fire, and we can't afford it. It is not right for outside companies to do what the Bulgarian state should do, and it is not right for us here to blow up the state of secretaries and drivers, but for people who are truly cyber-security specialists and on whom it depends to be little and unable to do their job. This must be guaranteed by the State no matter how much money is needed. Because otherwise we question national security something that we repeat, we cannot afford. For this reason, we are against and I urge you to introduce the necessary legislative changes so that it can really happen that civil servants and the Bulgarian state can do so. If you can't, get help from us, we will help you and if we have to enter these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u202	I'll give you the floor now, Mr. Simeonov, for procedure. First of all, we are voting on Manol Genov's proposal for an extension of the time limit for written proposals under art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection. No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, to be extended by another 14 days. We are voting on Manol Genov's proposal. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u204	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u206	Peter Chobanov? Vote in the House 134 MPs and 2 online, total 136: 125 and 2 online The motion is accepted. The deadline for proposals shall be extended by another 14 days. Here you are, Lord Simeonov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the time limit for proposals between the two votes be reduced to 4 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u208	Mr. Simeonov, this concerns the Law which we have just adopted for amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Governance. A reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting for Kiril Simeonov's proposal to shorten the deadline for proposals to 4 days. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u210	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u212	Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u214	Thank you. Vote in the House 133 MPs and 3 online, total 136: for 122 and 3 online " 125" total, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The deadline for proposals is 4 days. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF THE ELECTRICATION DECISION OF THE PARLIAMENT SECRETAR. It is then completed by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Then we continue with the first vote on the Bill on Covered Bonds and the first vote on the Bill on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments. A draft decision was made to elect a secretary at the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Project! DECISION for the election of the Secretary of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Deyan Petev Petkov as Secretary of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I am opening a discussion on the presented project. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. We are going to vote on the draft decision. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u218	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u220	Peter Chobanov? Vote in this House 127 MPs and 2 online, in total 129: 126 and 2 online, 128 total, not against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Deyan Petkov was elected Parliamentary Secretary. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION IN COMMITMENTS COMPOSITION. Mrs. Vassileva, please come in and present the projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u221	Thank you. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Alexander Velislavov Todorov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 2. He elected Deyan Petev Petkov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. And the second draft decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Alexander Velislavov Todorov as a member of the Commission for direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. 2. He elected Deyan Petev Petkov as a member of the Commission for direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. I'm opening the discussion. There aren't any. Mrs. Vasileva, may I suggest some editorial changes? Alexander Todorov is no longer a member of the Commission of any of the two committees, as he is not a Member of the National Assembly, to be first on the project concerning the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports, in the title of my first proposal is: not to be a request for a change in the. To remove the reference to art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, since this is also a text concerning exemption, that is to say the words...................................................................................... 19th para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 1 also to be a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and so on. 2 remains as the only text. The same editorial proposal I am making regarding the Commission's direct involvement with the citizens and interaction with civil society is replaced by a fill-in in the title. The text and art. 19th para. 4 is deleted, t. 1 is also deleted, etc. 2 remains the only text. On the draft concerning the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, I first put to the vote the editorial changes that I have just proposed. I say we vote 'em enbloc. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u224	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u226	Peter Chobanov? Vote in the House 130 MPs and 2 online, total 132: for 129 and 2 online The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the draft decision concerning the Committee on Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports, by importer in compliance with the editorial changes already voted on. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u228	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u230	Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u232	I call off this vote and ask the Quaestors to invite, if there are MPs around the House, let them come inside. Colleagues, please take your seats for the vote! We're overreacting. Colleagues online. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u234	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u236	Peter Chobanov? Vote in the House 131 MPs and 2 online, total 133: for 130 and 2 online The motion is accepted. We move on to the draft decision concerning the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. I'm voting on the editorial changes I've proposed. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u238	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u240	Peter Chobanov? Vote in the House 123 MPs and 2 online, total 125: for 122 and 2 online The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the draft decision on importer in compliance with the editorial changes already adopted. Desislava Taneva? Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u242	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u244	Peter Chobanov? Vote in this House 126 MPs and online 2, total 128: for 125 and 2 online.................................................................................................................... The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COVERED BENEFITS. You're welcome, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u246	I'll take your word for a moment, Mr. Karimansky. [[Part of the Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]] Do not go out, colleagues, you will probably now have to vote on admission to the House! [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u247	Colleagues, listen up and focus a little bit, please! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber to allow the following persons to be admitted: Mrs. Rositsa Petkova Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u248	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. A reverse opinion? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Desislava Taneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u250	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u252	Peter Chobanov? Voted in the House 122 MPs and 2 online, total 124: 121 and 2 online Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Here you are, Mr. Karimanski, to present the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Bill on Covered Bonds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u253	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a covered bond bill, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. At a meeting held on 20 January 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Kaloyan Simeonov The draft law introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/262 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision thereof and amending Directives 2009/65/EC and 2014/59/EU and establishes a national legal framework for covered bonds which is adequate to the development of modern markets. In Bulgaria, since 2000, the mortgage bond law has been in place, which regulates the issuance of one of the most typical types of covered bonds, those issued on the basis of a mortgage loan bank portfolio. After the adoption of the LEO, only 29 issuances of mortgage bonds totaling 270 million were issued. The reasons for this situation in the mortgage bond market are primarily related to the fact that the Bulgarian banking sector is highly liquid, i.e. market participants have access to other sources of funding that may be cheaper, easier for structuring and/or more accessible at present than the issue of covered bonds. There are also considerations of a purely regulatory nature. In this regard, the European Commission notes in its final report before the adoption of the Directive that Bulgaria, among other Member States, needs a working covered bond law to help market development. Unlike all developed covered bond markets, there is currently no specific supervision in Bulgaria regarding covered (including mortgage) bonds and issuer banks are subject to the general prudential supervision by BNB. Although some of the elements of the covered bonds directive are present in Bulgarian legislation, others represent novelty. Many upgrades are needed in relation to the current framework in Bulgaria, as well as a number of new norms and situations to be introduced. This requires the adoption of an entirely new covered bond law to replace the current mortgage bond law. The overall impact assessment and the Draft Law were drawn up jointly by a team of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance within the framework of the Technical Assistance Project to establish a legal framework for covered bonds. The covered bond directive provides for multiple options and divisions for Member States. Based on the overall preliminary impact assessment, the choice of the appropriate options and options provided by the Directive is followed by a balanced approach: on the one hand, the lack of a functioning covered bond market in the country and the small experience in issuing and investing in covered bonds among local market participants and, on the other hand, the possibility of developing a covered bond market in accordance with good international practices, without unduly increasing the administrative burden on stakeholders. In line with the practice of countries with developed covered bond market, the Bulgarian National Bank is defined as a competent body for supervision of covered bonds. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The expected effects of the application of the future law with regard to issuer banks are linked to the need for certain additional initial and follow-up costs for initial authorisation to issue covered bonds and current costs for the administration of covered bonds issued, including for preparing and carrying out periodic reporting to the public oversight authority and for maintaining a cover register. No increase is expected in the administrative burden on institutional investors and other potential investors in covered bonds as well as on borrowers. The requirements laid down by the Draft Law will not have a significant impact on existing regulatory regimes applicable to the issuance and supply of securities and disclosure of information, including on the requirements of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities and the prospectus Regulation. The proposed bill will not lead to an impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the course of the discussion, the MP Vladislav Panev asked the question why the body under the Law would be BNB and not the Financial Supervision Commission, to which Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov replied that this was one of the most discussed issues during the initial coordination, and a thorough analysis of the benefits and costs was carried out. The representative of the Ministry of Finance pointed out his position by drawing up the main arguments in favour of the decision for a body for public supervision of covered bonds to be designated the Bulgarian National Bank, supported by the practices of most countries with developed market for covered bonds. Prof. Rumen Gechev pointed out that in the reasons of the bill, despite the importance, there are no quantitative parameters and what the impact will be. He expressed concern that Bulgarian capital could flow abroad. Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov pointed out that this is a new law and concerns a whole new market. The legislation in the other Member States has been carefully examined. The Ministry of Finance believes that the implementation of the Law will not lead to the flow of capital abroad. With regard to the effect of the impact in the reasons, it is stated that this will not lead to an effect on the budget. The representative of the consultant at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Mr. Nikolay Bebov detailed how the impact assessment of the Law was prepared. Naturally, as stated in the reasoning, certain costs are expected for issuer banks, including in relation to public supervision. At this stage, however, it is difficult to calculate them as there are no empirical data to step on. It is also difficult to formulate clear expectations about the volume of potential future emissions. Believes that in any market that has created such arrangements for issuing covered bonds, the impact is positive for the financial situation of banks and for the development of mortgage markets; The law would stimulate the issue of covered bonds in Bulgaria. Mr. Chobanov drew attention to the requirement in the Bill for insurance of the material assets which serve to secure the assets of the cover and used the occasion to raise the issue of the need for detailed insurance arrangements in public procurement. Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski is interested in whether the protection of investors will be carried out by BNB as a body for public supervision of covered bonds or will remain in the portfolio of the Financial Supervision Commission. Mrs. Nina Stoyanova, deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, said that there were discussions on where the supervisory authority should be and how the powers should be allocated. In the end, everyone has agreed that given that covered bonds are issued only by banks and there are numerous requirements in this regard, the Bulgarian National Bank will carry out public supervision regarding the authorisation of programmes and issue covered bonds, monitoring of compliance with the requirements related to the collateral pool and others. Compliance with the rules on the collateral pool and other requirements are in themselves a guarantee for investors. In cases where covered bonds are offered on a regulated market, the general rules of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities will apply, and supervision of compliance with investor protection rules will continue to be carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission. Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov noted that although Bulgaria has not yet developed a covered bond market, the bill should be adopted both in relation to our commitments to transpose the Directive and in order to create the necessary legal basis for this market to develop. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 12 votes for............................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill on Covered Bonds, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u254	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. There has also been a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Who will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a covered bond bill, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. At its regular meeting on 26 January 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Bill on Covered Bonds. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The draft Law, submitted by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/262 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision thereof and amending Directives 2009/65/EC and 2014/59/EU. With the adoption of the covered bond bill, the Law on mortgage bonds will be repealed, which governs the issue of bonds based on a mortgage loan bank portfolio and is the legal act regulating relations in this area at the moment. Although Bulgaria's housing market has grown in recent years, the covered bond market in Bulgaria is inactive mainly due to the fact that the Bulgarian banking sector is highly liquid. The proposed bill aims to expand existing investment opportunities by facilitating credit institutions in the use of covered bonds. The categories of assets that may serve as collateral shall be settled. A certain part of the assets providing cover assets is allowed to be located in third countries. The possibility of the participation of the Bulgarian banks in covered bond issuing entities, participation in joint financing of covered bond issuance, inclusion in the cover pool of derivative contracts and appointment of an observer of the cover is envisaged. An obligation to appoint an extraordinary manager shall be introduced only in the event of insolvency of the issuer bank. No exemption from the requirement to maintain a liquid buffer shall be allowed. The assets shall be separated from the cover from the remaining assets of the issuer bank. The Bulgarian National Bank shall be designated as a competent supervisory authority. No increase is expected in the administrative burden on institutional investors and other potential investors in covered bonds, as well as on borrowers in view of the fact that the Bill does not provide specific obligations for these groups of interested parties. The bill does not exceed the minimum administrative burden requirements of the European Union. The requirements provided for by the Bill will not have a significant impact on existing regulatory regimes and will not have an impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank Nina Stoyanova supported the bill. During the discussion, the national representative Desislava Trifonova noted that some of the texts of the Bill are unclear and this will create difficulties in implementing them, such as: the lack of a definition of a............................................................................ 5, para. 3, which shall be available to the issuer bank in the case of the inclusion of assets in the cover pool; the need to provide a deadline for issuing the Ordinance under art. 26, para. 7 of the Bulgarian National Bank; the lack of sanctions for the obligations which the Bulgarian National Bank has under art. 22 and others. In response, Deputy Minister of Finance Ivaylo Yaydzhiev voiced readiness to refine the texts between the two votes of the Bill. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill on Covered Bonds, No 47 102 01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u256	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. There is also a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Who will present the report? Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe under the covered bond bill, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its meeting held on 12 January 2022 examined and discussed the Bill on Covered Bonds. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Deputy Minister Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Associate Professor Kaloyan Simeonov, Acting Director of the Department of Financial Markets and Rositsa Petkova, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Financial Markets and Labour and Social Policy: Minister Georgi Gokov and Deputy Ministers Ivan Krastev and Lazar Lazarov. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to establish a national legal framework for covered bonds adequate to modern market developments and to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/262 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision thereof (the Directive) and amending Directives 2009/65/EC and 2014/59/EU in Bulgarian legislation. The time limit for transposition of the Directive is 8 July 2021 and the provisions of the Law should apply at the latest from 8 July 2022. The draft and its overall assessment were drawn up jointly between the Ministry of Finance and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development within the framework of a project for technical assistance to create a legal framework for covered bonds. The directive provides for multiple options and divisions. Based on the overall preliminary assessment of the impact of the choice of options provided by the Directive, a balanced approach is followed, on the one hand, taking into account the lack of a functioning covered bond market in the country and the little experience in issuing and investing in covered bonds, on the other hand, enables the development of this market without increasing the administrative burden on interested parties. Within the framework of the Bill there are changes in the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Social Security Code, which are aimed at extending the opportunities of pension insurance companies to invest in covered bonds. The characteristics of the low risk covered bonds, the existence of special public supervision, collateral requirements, requirements for maintaining a liquidity buffer, separation of assets from the remaining assets of the issuer bank, including in the event of insolvency and other In this way, the opportunities of pension insurance companies to invest in fixed-income instruments are increased, which improves the possibility of diversification of their assets. The Bill establishes additional low-risk instruments in which key groups of institutional investors can invest and ensure their protection against the issuer's credit risk. The amendments to the Social Security Code are discussed and agreed with the Financial Supervision Commission. The law is also agreed through public consultation within one month. It was approved by Council of Ministers Decision No 565 of 9 September 2021 and submitted to the Forty-sixth National Assembly, but was not considered. The draft was approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 851 of 7 December 2021 and submitted to the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. The European Commission sent a special notification letter that there was no notification of transposition of the Directive on 30 December 2021. An overall assessment of the impact of the Law as well as those required under art. 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Denitsa Sacheva expressed the opinion that the bill was submitted on 7 December 2021 by the caretaker government and is formally without an importer because it was not submitted by the current government. GERB-SDS Parliamentary Group has no substantive comments on the bill and supports it. People's representative Momchil Ivanov expressed his opinion that the Bill extends the circle of privileged creditors, enshrined in Bulgarian trade law, allowing not only pension insurance companies but also other capital market participants to invest not only in government securities but also in new instruments. The Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" supports the philosophy of the Bill. People's representative Georgi Ganev raised the question whether there are interested banks to take advantage of the possibility of covered bonds and expected amounts. In response Mr. Yaydzhiev said that the market is highly liquid and this mechanism would not attract any particular interest from the banks, but it is important that it exists because it develops the capital market and the possibility of financing, which in the future may be more attractive than it is now. National Representative Hasan Ademov expressed his opinion that this bill enables private pension funds to have greater flexibility and greater opportunities to expand their investment portfolio. The DPS Parliamentary Group supports the Bill. Dr. Ademov asked Mrs. Miltenova about the yield from the new instrument. In response Mrs. Miltenova said that this framework is not new for the European market framework. The main comment is that this bill is absolutely necessary, but it is not new for the Bulgarian capital market and for long-term investors because before the crisis there was a issuance of mortgage bonds by banks and pension funds. Everything will depend on the yield as well. Currently, both globally and in Bulgaria, liquidity in the banking sector is extremely high, which is why it is not possible to immediately issue the banking sector, but a low-risk and high-security instrument similar to mortgage ones is needed. The limits of 2% and 4% set in the Bill will not be sufficient when these covered bonds begin to be issued. With regard to profitability, it is a little speculative and opportunistic to say what it would be. In the global context, when interest rates normalise, there are expectations that banks will also start taking advantage of this instrument. People's representative Georgi Ganev made a remark that not only the yield on debt instruments is important, the risk profile and the time profile are important. If this instrument enables pension companies to diversify better and hedge certain risks, it will also be valuable to them, even though the yield may not be the highest. People's representative Hasan Ademov commented that risk management is an extremely serious issue and when it comes to long-term instruments and secure investments, there is no way to be high profitability. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u258	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. There has also been a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Who will present the report? Mr. Mateev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the Bill on Covered Bonds, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. At its regular meeting on 19 January 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Bill on Covered Bonds, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. The meeting was attended: by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Andrey Tsekov Deputy Minister, Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov, Acting Director and Mrs. Mrs. Snezanka Koleva, Director of Financial Markets and Mrs. Nikolay Bebov and Mr. Damian Leshev Consultants of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Andrey Tsekov, who pointed out that the project introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/2162 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision over them and amending Directives 2009/65/EC and 2014/59/EU. Mr. Tsekov noted that the deadline for introducing the requirements of the Directive was 8 July 2021 and the provisions of the Law should start to apply by 8 July 2022 at the latest, and added that the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Bulgaria on 30 September 2021 due to the failure to implement the Directive. The Bill aims to create an efficient financing instrument and further development of the mortgage market and to reduce the costs for both banks granting such loans and borrowers. The draft law establishes the regulatory framework relating to institutions directly related to covered bonds and regulates the implementation of specialized supervision in respect of covered bonds. The categories of assets that may serve as collateral are defined, allowing a certain part of those assets to be located in third countries. It is envisaged that the Bulgarian banks will be able to participate in the covered bonds financed through the issue of covered bonds in the use of encumbered structures, as well as in joint financing by using different transfer methods and structures by the participants in it. The bill defines the competent supervisory authority and its powers, providing for public supervision of covered bonds to be exercised by the Bulgarian National Bank. The draft shall regulate the issue and appeal of individual administrative acts and provide for a special order for the application of the right to be heard by the person concerned by the administrative act. In connection with the transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/2162, changes are also proposed in the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and the Law on Credit Institutions and others. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Branimir Balachev, Atanas Slavov and Milen Mateev. In relation to the questions raised by Mr. Balachev regarding the reasons for the delayed implementation of the provisions of the Directive in the Bulgarian legislation and the main objections of the banks Mr. Stoyanov emphasized on the duration of the national legislative procedure and the detailed analysis and assessment of the impact, as well as the re-public discussion of the bill. Mr. Bebov added that the countries affected by the bill are the banks-employers and investors, with the main notes of the banks being of a technical nature. On the occasion of Mr. Slavov's questions Mr. Stoyanov clarified that on 30 September 2021 a letter of formal notice was received from the European Commission for a initiated infringement procedure against Bulgaria, which represents the first stage of the criminal procedure. He added that the second stage prior to the judicial procedure includes a reasoned opinion of the European Commission and a two-month period for Bulgaria to respond accordingly. Mr. Stoyanov pointed out that the full transposition of the directive will be achieved when regulations are adopted. In relation to the questions Mr. Mateev raised, Mr. Tsekov noted that the introduction of an in-depth legal regime of such type of debt instruments will have a positive effect on the market and added that covered bonds are a low-risk instrument, providing strict collateral requirements, as well as special public supervision. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs unanimously with 20 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 47-102-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u260	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I am now opening discussions on the bill tabled for the first vote. Anyone? Come in for a statement, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group will continue to support proposals from the Council of Ministers on covered bonds. We will support the Bill because it creates an adequate framework of market developments for covered bonds and introduces the requirements of Directive 2169/2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision thereof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u262	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Are there any lines to the statement of colleague Sabrutev? I won't. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The theme is really quite specific, but it's important. Let's say that we are talking about one of the numerous instruments in the capital market, and the capital market should also become the main motor in the development of the market economy in Bulgaria. If in Bulgaria economic growth is not as high in recent years as we would like, one of the reasons is precisely that the Bulgarian capital market is less developed than the capital markets of all other EU countries. Therefore, the adoption of changes or new laws in the field of the enrichment of the capital market, the increase of the risks of the securities that are being realised on this market is a step in the right direction and it is beneficial not only to the capital market itself, but especially to the economic development of Bulgaria. In this regard, it is about the adoption of a Bill that relates to the so-called covered bonds. It was said that covered bonds, or to say them in an understandable Bulgarian language, bonds, these assets are covered by certain guarantees in the bank, these guarantees can be: bank assets, may be mortgage loans, but it is still about developing instruments on the capital market, by which to provide financing for construction of housing and other sites, and along with this to expand the trading palette: buying-selling between banks and the realization of deposits of citizens and companies. From this point of view, this project, which is proposed, must be supported not only because it complies with the EU directives, which set the limits for the development of these markets, but because to a significant extent the Bulgarian interest is also protected. By the way, the fact that it is entrusted to the Bulgarian National Bank to carry out prudential supervision is also a step in the right direction for two reasons. Firstly, because at the time of European capital markets, unfortunately, not so much on the Bulgarian market, with little exception, usually the main players in the purchase-sale of such securities, of covered bonds, and previously of mortgage loans, as mentioned years ago, these are the commercial banks, these are the central banks without the restrictions on BNB, which is located in the Monetary Council, even the European Central Bank, because through the trading of these securities besides the financing of such business activities, as I said, purely banking purposes are being implemented. Furthermore, one of the reasons for the realization of these securities is to lower the price, lower the interest rate, and the decrease in interest, among other things due to the reduced risk of issuers of these securities and buyers, and thus by reducing the cost of servicing these operations, ultimately both people and companies who need such credits for certain constructions will also receive cheaper resources. What is the problem for Bulgaria? In both committees I expressed no concern, but rather a recommendation to the Bulgarian institutions to increase their coordination for the following reason: we all know that there is almost 100 million in Bulgaria at the moment. lv. frozen, so to speak, deposits of citizens and companies for the reason that the Bulgarian economy does not offer suitable conditions for investment. This frozen money instead of dynamizing growth in Bulgaria, stands and is realized in another way. Interest rates are zero or low on deposits, interest rates on loans in Bulgaria still remain slightly higher than in the European Union, that is, we have problems with too many free, unwanted free funds to be used. And this is where the question arises: when these additional instruments are included, these are instruments that allow the money to be realized, and because in Bulgaria the money is not realized, and in other countries there is no money for credit activity, the worry is that our free money in the unilateral development of the capital market can go in another direction. And we are not to blame here the European directives, nor are we to blame for the modern market economy and modern markets. We Bulgarians are guilty because we have not coordinated, we have not organized and we do not use the advantages of the modern market economy, including the capital market. So in the coming days and months there should be meetings, coordinations, measures and strategies of the Bulgarian government, of our national bank, of the Financial Supervision Commission, of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange in order to use these occasions to bring the Bulgarian money into motion for the benefit of the Bulgarian economy and not only in the interest of other brotherly, otherwise economies, in the European Union. So let us support this bill, this is a step in the right direction, but let us be more demanding also to the Bulgarian institutions, which have a responsibility these changes in the laws to benefit the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u264	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any lines to Professor Gechev's statement? I can't see. For other speeches? Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? I won't. I'm putting an end to the discussion on this bill. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors, if there are any colleagues... Come in for a procedure, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u265	Dear Mr. President, since colleagues are apparently having lunch, please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, continue Changing for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u266	Fifteen minutes of rest until 13.30. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u267	Please take your seats. If there are people in the halls, the Quaestors should invite them. Guess not. We move on to the first vote of the Bill on Covered Bonds, No 47-102-01-7, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2021. Desislava Taneva? She's gone. Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u269	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u271	Peter Chobanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u273	197 registered MPs in the hall and 4 online, total 201. They voted 114 MPs in the House plus online 3, 117 total... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u274	Dear Mr. Chairman, I suggest we move to the next point. You have closed the debate on this bill and the vote to do so when the debate expires on the next one. My suggestion is to move on to the next point. [[The National Representative Petar Petrov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u275	Do you have a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We believe that the point is an important, separate duty of the coalition is to secure the quorum, so my reverse proposal is to continue the current vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u277	Thank you. There was a motion to re-vote. We're overreacting. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u278	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u279	On behalf of a parliamentary group, a name check before the upcoming vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u280	Through the computerised system? [[Noise and lines: No!]] Name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Alexandra Valentinova Korcheva- here Alexandra Stefanova Milcheva- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Dimitrov Dunchev- here Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- absent Alexander Nestorov Nestorov- absent Alexander Nikolaev Rakshiev- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alyzan Nihat Yahova- absent Angel Zhekov Georgiev- absent Andrey Atanasov Ghurov- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mikhailov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Anton Yordanov Tonev- here Antonia Kancheva Dimitrova- here Asen Georgiev Baltov- absent Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Dimitrov Mihnev- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bajram Yuzkan Bajram is absent Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Blagoevest Chanev Belev - absent Bogomil Ivanov Petkov- here Boyko Lubomirov Kletchkov- here Borislav Antoniev Antonov- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Branimir Nikolaev Balachev- absent Valeri Plamenov Lachovski - absent Vassil Petrov Zashkev- here Vasil Stefanov - here Venice Ognyanova Nezova-Angova- here Venko Nikolov Sabrutev- here Ventsislav Ivanov Petkov- here Ventislava Milchova Lyubenova- absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victor Gasan Nasser-- here. Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Marinov Marinov- here Vladimir Slavev Tabutov- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- absent Faith Emilova Yordanova- here Galina Sabeva Georgieva- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Yordanov Gkozdeykov- here Georgi Nikolaev Georgiev- absent Georgi Nikolaev Stamov- here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- absent Gergana Kuzmanova Daneva- missing Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Guner Nihat Ahmed is absent Danny Stefanova Canazireva - absent Daniel Pavlov Mitov - absent Daniel Petrov Petrov - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Denitsa Dimitrova Simeonova- here Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- absent Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Zhekova Taneva (through the Internet) Videoconference platform)- absent Desislava Tsvetanchova Trifonova- absent Delyan Petev Petkov- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dimitar Angelov Ivanov- here Dimitar Danailov Nedyalkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Kolev Gochev (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Dimitar Mihailov Tashev- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Ekaterina Kirilova Dimitrusheva- here Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva- missing Elena Tsoneva Guncheva- missing Elisaveta Dimitrova Belobradova- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Tsenov Georgiev- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Esheref Kasim Esheref is absent. Zhecho Donchev Stankov- absent Zarko Filipov Marinov - absent Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova- here Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Valentinov Shotev- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- here Ivaylo Hristov Hristov- here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov- absent Ivan Borisov Totev- here Ivan Valentinov Ganchev- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yovkov Chervenkov- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Kosev Manev- here Ivan Rumenov Klisurski- here Ivelin Stattev Ivanov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Ivo Georgiev Ruschev- absent Iliana Petkova Zhekova - absent Ilin Pavlinov Dimitrov- here Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev- here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Inna Vladimirova Ivanova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- absent Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Iskra Mihaylova Mihaylova- absent Iskren Nikolaev Mitev- here Sincere Tsvetoslavov Arabadzhiev- absent Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Yvov Terziyski- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Yordan Yankov Madjunkov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Yordanka Yanikova Kostadinova- here Kalin Ivaylov Ivanov- here Kaloyan Tonev Ikonomov- here Kiril Milanov Ananiev- absent Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Konstantin Zhivkov Bachiiski- here Kostadin Georgiev Angelov- here Kostadin Todorov Kostadinov- absent Kostadin Tomov Stoykov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasen Kirilov Kralev - absent Krasimir Georgiev Valchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Lozko Stefanov Lozev- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- absent Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- absent Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Manoil Minchev Manev- absent Manol Trifonov Genov here Marin Shishev Shishev- here Mario Kirov Rangelov- absent Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Maya Yordanova Dimitrova- here Milen Iliev Mateev- here Milko Asenov Penev here Miroslav Nikolaev Ivanov- here Miroslava Petrova- here Mikhail Petkov Iliev- here Michal Grigorov Kambarev- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- absent Mladen Todorov Zaprianov- here Momchil Donev Nenov- absent Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- absent Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant is absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mumyun Sally Mumyun is absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Ismet Kabak is not here. Nikola Angelov Dimitrov- absent Nikola Georgiev Minchev- here Nikolay Georgiev Angov- here Nikolay Georgiev Drenchev- absent Nikolay Nankov Nankov- absent Nikolay Stefanov Radulov- absent Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Pavlin Pavlov Krastev- absent Petar Vassilev Kyosev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Lubenov Milanov- here Petar Nikolaev Kulenski- here Petar Nikolaev Nikolov- absent Petar Nikolaev Petrov - absent Petar Pandushev Chobanov (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- absent Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Plamen Petrov Shalafov- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- absent Radoslav Krasenov Vasilev- here Radoslav Stefanov Ribarski- absent Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rena Encheva Stefanova- here Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov- absent Rosen Dobrev Turtle-- here. Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- absent Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- absent Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- absent Snezana Veliko Apostolova- here Snow White Raychova Trayanska - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- absent Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Ivanov Shilev- here Stefan Nedelchev Mirev- absent Stoil Miroslavov Stoilov- here Stoyu Teodorov Stoev- here Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stoyan Ivanov Georgiev- here Stoyan Nikolov Taslakov- absent Tanner Kadir Turkoglu- here Tatiana Slavova Sultanova-Siveva - here Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova- absent Tihomir Gochev Tenev - here Toma Lubomirov Bikov- absent Tomislav Peykov Donchev- absent Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- absent Fatme Hassan Ramadan is absent. Philip Stefanov Popov here Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristo Bogomilov Terziyski - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- absent Hristo Simeonov - here Hristo Hristov Petrov - absent Tsveta Todorova Galunova - absent Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev - absent Tsvetelina Kalinova Simeonova-Zarkin - here Tsoncho Tomov Ganev - absent Julia Borisova Ivanova - here Yuri Olegov Kozlov - here Yussain Hasanov Weyselov - absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- here The roll call check showed that 141 MPs were present in the Chamber. Please proceed to the vote on the Bill. Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u282	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u284	Desislava Taneva? She's gone. They voted 123 MPs in the House plus 2 online, 125 total: for The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u285	Dear Mr. Chairman! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The term for the Law on Covered Bonds shall be 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u286	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. There's no other opinion. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski. The deadline for proposals to be 14 days. Desislava Taneva? She's gone. Dimitar Gochev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u288	Yordan Majunkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u290	They voted 121 MPs in the House plus 2 online, 123 total: 119 plus 2 online, 121 total, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The deadline for proposals will be 14 days. I'd like to read you some messages: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of a plane with crew members of the Royal Air Force of Australia. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international and plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 2 February 2022, with entry No 47-203-09-11, and was made available to the Defence Committee. [[Replyes: the period is extended by the time of the holidays given.]] There's still a few minutes left. The next bill has three reports. Parliamentary control messages on 4 February 2022 Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, Friday, 1. Debates on asking: - debates on the questioning of the MP Hristo Gazhev to the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev on the role of the Ministry of Defence in protecting the state border and maintaining the security infrastructure; 2. Questions and questions: - Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev will answer 4 questions from the MPs Rositsa Kirova, Desislava Atanasova, Martin Dimitrov and Ivan Totev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and Industry Kornelia Ninova will answer a question from the MP Denitsa Nikolova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov will answer 12 questions from the MPs: Boyko Klechkov, Elhan Kulkov, Momchil Ivanov, Ivan Chenchev, Sevim Ali, Escheref Escheref and Fatme Ramadan - Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, 2 questions; - Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer five questions from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev, Petar Petrov, Daniel Petrov and Vladimir Marinov with two questions; - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer one question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; - Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov will answer one question from the MP Blagovest Kirilov; - Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova, Ivaylo Hristov and Rositsa Kirova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer two questions from the MPs Mummyun Mummyun and Denitsa Sacheva; - Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev will answer one question from the MP Petar Petrov. Due to a trip outside the country the Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov, Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova, Minister of Youth and Sports Radostin Vassilev, Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The blitz's got everybody involved. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u291	Dear Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. Let me remind you that due to the requested holidays on behalf of the parliamentary groups of ARCHIVER and "We continue the Change" respectively, the meeting is extended with the time of the holidays given. In order to spare you, however, the awkward situation of not having a quorum again in this House, you may proceed with the reports, and the debate will be postponed for another time. And to remind the MPs, who are still in the House of the majority, that sometimes you need opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-02-03.u292	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We had a break at the request of.. We continue the Change....... only................................ we continue the Change.. only. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There was only one break at the request of the Change Continue, Mr. Gazhev, that's why we're at 2:15. We'll continue next time. We're adjourned.
