ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u2	(We continue The Change, via the Internet platform for video conference): Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u3	Registered 188 MPs in the hall and 1 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] A few messages and I give you the floor for procedure, Mrs. Angelkova: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of aircraft with crews from the Air Force of India and Japan. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the crossing with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notification was received on 10 March 2022 by IC. No 47 203 02-21 and granted to the Defence Committee. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets on 31 December 2022 by the Ministry of Justice, the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. Decision No 137 of 10 March 2022 of the Council of Ministers, which withdraws the proposal to the National Assembly, to give consent to increase the shares of the Republic of Bulgaria in the paid-up statutory capital of the International Investment Bank under the International Investment Bank's capitalization programme for the period 2018. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, for a procedure. Mrs. Angelkova, I have spoken to Minister Subev and if there is still no answer to the questions at the beginning of next week, please come in and we will call him to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u4	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! My procedure is once again linked to parliamentary control. Mr. Chairman, I really don't understand why the ministers continue in violation of the Constitution of art. 90... Yesterday, I commented on that question again. In accordance with art. 90 of the Constitution, the Members of the National Assembly are entitled to parliamentary questions and questions to ministers and ministers are obliged to answer them. I really don't understand how they, or do you interpret the verb, are they? Separate from that in art. 103 of our Rules, if the Prime Minister or the ministers do not respond within the time limit... On my four questions, actually, the Minister of Transport Nikolai Subev was obliged to answer me within seven days. They are from 14 February and this period is long over, but your ten-day period is also over. Every day you make me think you're gonna talk. Now again you are telling me that you have spoken and perhaps, perhaps, future uncertain time, the Minister of Transport will appear to answer the written question. The ministers are extremely disrespectful and disrespectful. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Calling Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev]] , you answer our questions, but as part of your office please pay attention to your colleagues.? Nikolay Subev does not answer my written questions, Boyko Rashkov does not answer the DPS...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u5	That's not true, and it's not your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u6	... Ivan Ivanov doesn't respond to Dunchev who said it...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u7	And that's not true, and it's not your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u8	How is that not true?! Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u9	And it shows you it's not an attitude towards the opposition, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u10	Yeah, exactly. It is somewhat joyful that it is not a direct attitude towards the opposition, but it is not a joy that you do not respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u11	Your time is up, Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u12	It is important that you follow the Constitution and the Rules. Please, Mr. Chairman, I do understand that the ministers are part of the ruling coalition, but it is right for you to carry out your duties as the first among equals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u13	Thank you. Just to say that this case with Nikolai Subev is the only one missing an answer. [[(Replys from the parliamentary group of DPS: "A," is not true! That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u14	It's true. [[Noise and lines.]] First raised his hand for the procedure Mr. Mladen Shishkov, then Alexander Dunchev, Branimir Balachev, Peter Petrov and Sevim Ali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Obviously, the violation of the Rules of Procedure by members of the Council of Ministers is becoming some kind of standard of conduct. Yesterday you made a list of ministers who violate the regulations, today I suggest we update it. I ask that the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works be added to the ministers of transport, agriculture and home affairs. Why? Because on 9 February 2022 I submitted a request for submission of documents by the Minister of Regional Development on the basis of art. 138 of our Rules. Today is March 11th, more than a month later. I have neither received any documents at this time nor have I any information as to whether such documents are being prepared. Mr. Chairman, please explain to the Members of the National Assembly what the time limits under art. Art. 138, Art. 111 of our Rules of Procedure, and if these deadlines are not met, I ask the Minister to have his legal responsibility as it is written in the Rules, whatever it is. By the way, the documents I requested are not some state secret. They concern the construction of the highway of Hemus. The parties of the protest built their campaign precisely on the thesis of the highway. This thesis also largely defined the course of the events and the results of the elections and is, in fact, the cause of today's absurd management collaboration. After the elections, however, the Minister of Regional Development continued to develop this thesis and continued to suggest to the public that there were some irregularities associated with the highway. The documents I've asked for will once and for all uncover all the mysteries I've drawn up. They will either prove the Minister's words [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, or he'll be disproved. By the way, two days ago it became clear that last year the Regional Ministry paid more than one million leva for legal services. I don't want to believe that these great lawyers were hired to create a lie. If these same lawyers are currently performing legal services, they need to be terminated as soon as possible, because one month can no longer collect and systematize 20 documents. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Article 138 does not provide for time limits. [[Relations from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] Okay, and what time limit on the GPC is subsidiaryly applicable to you? [[Relations from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] This procedure does not pass through the Chairman. The text on legal responsibility is only for parliamentary hearings, but I will assist you in this matter. I promise!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u17	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I'm asking you to cooperate... [[Heckling]] Can't you hear it? Yesterday you didn't want to hear from me, and now you want to listen to me?! I don't know anymore. The question is this: we from the National Assembly are still quite young MPs, we are still learning how to use the instruments of the National Assembly. You can see that we are even testing innovations and new approaches to protecting democracy and the rights of all of us. With regard to parliamentary control, I would like to address the Chair for assistance, as I have tested art. 138. In addition to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions, I have used several times and art. 138. In one or two municipalities and one or two ministries worked perfectly, people were extremely polite. But I haven't received one of the requested documents under art. 138 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the Minister of Agriculture. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Among other things, I ask for your assistance to speak with the Minister and to give these notorious names to all the personnel changes in the forests, as I tabled a proposal in the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry to discuss with colleagues and to ask the Minister to come and be heard about all these issues instead of discussing them and arguing in the media. I guess the public interest is huge. I wasn't expecting it, and I just got caught up in a situation where I had to tell things that we had to solve here. But we have a chance to make this right. I ask you to help me ask him to collect these names, to provide them, to take the documents with which employees are fired and employed, including many directors from GERB, who are fantastic professionals, fantastic, absolutely impeccable, and are currently on the street. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] I will not mention names because yesterday a name that I mentioned, also related to GERB, was fired within the day. [[Applause GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u18	Okay. Thank you. I will cooperate, as I promised to assist Mladen Shishkov and you in the procedure under art. 138. And this procedure is on my shoulders. Maybe I'll leave it with an order from some vice-president. Branimir Balachev is next for the procedure. I am also recording Yordan Tsonev and Georgi Svilenski for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u19	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is related to the agenda and the procedure on it. About a month ago, I asked the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev a question and I expected his reply, as I expect it not only myself but tens of thousands of citizens expect it from the municipality of Kavarna to the municipality of Beloslav and Devnya. It is related to the crash of the ship's accident, and in particular to the 3000 tonnes of urea that were in it. This answer to a question was included in the previous meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u21	...a previous Friday. We reached a consensus with the Minister from his cabinet asking me that he had very important commitments to postpone the inquiry. What was the surprise when yesterday I was asked again to postpone this question by offering me different options of written answer and anything else. However, I and the citizens hold on to his personal appearances from this tribune. I would therefore ask you, because today he had urgent commitments in the port of Burgas, I hope it is not related to any preparations for military action, to withdraw item 9th of the agenda and leave it for a subsequent meeting, which, however, should be the last. Let Minister Subev finally come and answer our questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. The item is included in the list because we have not received a specific notification and therefore I have no reason to remove Nikolai Subev from the list of ministers who will answer questions, but the presence of a discussion between you and the Ministry definitely surprised me. I'm writing down another matter to consider. Peter Petrov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will make a purely procedural proposal. Yesterday was a busy agenda. Not a few items were considered on the agenda, honourable Members, we even had a one-hour break in which you and I honored the actions of our ancestors in saving the Jews, as well as the memory of, unfortunately, the deportees. So with regard to today's agenda, I will take advantage of the opportunity given to me under art. 49 in the second alternative prerequisite of para. 2, namely: I will offer you point six of yesterday's hearing, which could not be considered, we did not reach it because of the conclusion of the meeting, today to become point two after the hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister. I believe that this will not disrupt the pace of work at today's parliamentary session, including with regard to parliamentary control under art. Art. 91 to art. 103 of the Rules, which, even if replaced, I believe, will proceed in its normal course, seen by previous parliamentary Friday sittings. I'm making a suggestion. 6 of yesterday to become t. 2 of today's parliamentary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Which paragraph did you refer to, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u25	49, para. 2, second prerequisite after... Mr. Chairman, I think I have the opportunity, the rules give it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u26	I think only the chairman can. Okay, I get the point. The next procedure is Mr. Ali's. [[Heckling]] Reassigning to Mr. Tsonev, okay. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My procedure is about what my colleague Dunchev said in the manner of conduct, of course. Mr. President, and we have found many times, and colleagues from GERB, I see already the colleagues from 138 doesn't work?! How many months do we want from the Home Secretary? Now colleague Dunchev wants documents from the Minister of Agriculture. Do you know whose duty it is to translate the Rules into action? Yours, Mr. Chairman, Yours. Please translate art. 138 in action! Otherwise, we violate the Constitution with regard to the control of the executive power by the National Assembly. Conduct it uncompromisingly because this violates other balances in the functioning of the authorities, which is a fundamental principle in general of the functioning of the democracy of the Bulgarian state. There's no way we can move forward if executive power doesn't slick around here. Papers are required. I.D.'s on. It takes control. Don't hide any minister. He comes here, whatever he did explains it. It does not explain it to us to the opposition or to anyone, explains it to the Bulgarian people, to the voters who sent us here. Uncompromising must be translated into action art. 138. Because if you don't, there's gonna be some other stuff we've seen and no one likes it. I'm just asking you to step into the chair! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is also in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, and it is unacceptable from the stand to allow people who are already clearly protecting the interests of the forest mafia...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u30	Well, Mr. Svilensky, don't be like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u31	No, no, that's right... [[Replications and cheers by GERB-SDS: "Eee!" and applause by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u32	No, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u33	That's right, Mr. Chairman, in front of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister I have to say these things because this representative who came out here and said that he was looking for documents, his parliamentary group has a deputy minister (applause from the BSP for Bulgaria) and can at any time take all documents. And if anyone wants information that he can get, he has to get, and the law allows him to get it. But if he wants information to speculate with it, to carry it around to other departments, to other structures, to other NGOs, that won't happen. Because, Mr. Chairman, we have witnessed two days of lies, speculation, manipulations and suggestions from the MP who uses the parliamentary tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u34	Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u35	... used the media to indict a Bulgarian minister, the government in which, Deputy Prime Minister, you are Deputy Prime Minister. I really wonder how you look at these things, given that you have a Deputy Minister in the Ministry, given that you have the full monitoring of what is going on, and finally to hear the assessment of the 12-year good management of GERB in the sector. Why, then, ladies and gentlemen, did you want the change and you were baptized for the change when you liked how GERB managed for 12 years?! That's what your MP said...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u36	We get it, Mr. Svilensky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u37	Good government for 12 years! Well, congratulations! There he is, you got him there! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u38	Thank you. Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you, and it is in the manner of conduct. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are those democratic values and principles that we share, Mr President, to remind you that they are deeply embedded in the fundamentals of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and there is no way we can give them up. I, like every colleague of mine, am holding a meeting with voters from my elected district and last week to quote what has been shared with me. One man said the following: "The last time in my home a militia leg was set in the distant 1983 year when Bulgaria ruled the totalitarian regime. That regime that didn't recognize human rights and freedoms. Just because I am an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Freedoms last summer of 2021, in July again militiamen were in my home just for being an activist of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, only for giving away agitative materials. This man, Mr. Chairman, is waiting for an answer. On the basis of art. 90, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 Reg. 91, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, asked a question on 15 December, to which you did not answer. The Home Secretary didn't give us an answer. There was some correspondence between you. On February 10th, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we put 50 specific questions through you to the Interior Minister Mr. Rashkov, you returned them to us on February 15th. We re-entered them on February 18th this time separately when we wanted you to provide us with the documents and to hear Minister Rashkov about all these 20,000 cases. Because these 50 questions that we've asked them are just the beginning before we put all the other 19,000. 950 questions. Mr. Chairman, this week you had parliamentary control on Tuesday. At parliamentary control there were nine ministers who had to respond, Mr. Rashkov was ninth in a row. Now, there is parliamentary control again today and Mr. Rashkov is the 14th Minister of 15 in a row. Tell me if you follow art. 102 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, or make a proposal from your parliamentary group of the ruling coalition...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u40	The weather, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u41	...that art. 102 does not apply only to the Interior Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u42	Thank you. If you want to look at the Rules of Procedure, look at the President's Decree on the arrangements of the ministers, if something is not clear to you, I can also assist you in a private conversation. Another procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] There is the arrangement of the ministers and the rotation is according to them, Mr. Letifov. If you want, we can discuss it with the entire parliamentary group, we don't have to waste everyone's time. Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The President's decree of cabinet arrangement applies to the office. The award of the Decree for the election of a new Council of Ministers is ultimately a choice of the National Assembly. How will the National Assembly arrange them and call them to the Rules of Procedure is your job as the first of equal, and of the National Assembly itself. It's a rule of law. I understand that all your colleagues and you, Mr. Chairman, are asking yourself what is Rashkov really going to do when he comes here? [[Heckling]] He must answer, he must be responsible for his actions, he must answer why the Constitution and the laws of the country have been violated. This thing needs to be answered. We know what the big problem is. There is no answer for the violation of rights and freedoms. We're gonna get an apology, we're gonna get something else, but we want those answers for all the 20,000 cases he's announced on this stand. We don't know who they are, we only know one part. That's why we want documents and we're gonna need documents for everyone to find out what they were doing. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u44	Another procedure? [[Heckling]] Maybe there's more. Alexander Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is in the way it leads to you. Can you explain, Mr. Chairman, which regulation states that parliamentary control is being carried out under the Decision to determine the structure of the Council of Ministers? In fact, what you said on Wednesday to my colleague, Mumyun Mumyun, and today twice it turns out to be a factual inaccuracies. I'm quoting art. 102, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: First the Prime Minister responds, then the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Ministers, with a rotating principle in the response of the ministers. My procedure and desire...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u46	And how do you think they fit in?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u47	Rotary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u49	My desire for you today, starting parliamentary control, is to call Minister Rashkov and be the first to answer after last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u50	Thank you, but that's not the rotational principle. The rotational principle means, which answers, goes at the back of the rotation and thus push up. We move on to Peter Petrov's procedural proposal, which is point. 12 of the program to become t. 13 of the program. In this way he will receive a place in the Programme after the current hearing of the Deputy Minister. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] After the Health Insurance Manager's hearing? Let's do it. 14? [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] Okay, I get it. I get it. I get it. Petar Petrov's proposal is t. 12 of the program to become t. 14. Thank you, Mr. Petrov. We vote on the proposal. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u51	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u52	Thank you. They voted 184 Members of Parliament and 1 online. 185 total: for 102, against 61 and 1 online.................................................................................................. 21.................................................................................................................................................. [[Heckling]] It's a re-vote. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u53	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u54	Mr. Petrov? Yeah, I get it. Thank you. Cyril Ananiev can't vote? Okay. I'm giving it time. Did Lachezar Ivanov manage to vote? Okay. Let Cyril Ananiev say it. It's not an active console, okay. I'm calling off the vote. Maybe without Kiril Ananiev's voice, we can announce the results. They voted 197 MPs and 1 online.. in total 198: for 111, against 62 and 1 online.. 63 total, abstentioned 24. The motion is accepted. So the point becomes 14 and stands in the Programme after the hearing of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund before parliamentary control. We move on to item one of the agenda for today, namely: HEARING OF THE EMPLOYMENT MINISTRY ON THE EUROPHOND AND MINISTER OF THE FINANIAN ASES VASSILEV ON THE CONTENT OF THE NATIONAL RESTRUCTURING AND RESISTANCE PLAN AFTER THE OBSERVATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, AS WELL AS THE END OF THE COHESION AND STRUCTURING FUND OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE PROGRAMMING Please come in for a procedure. Then Jevdet Chakarov for introduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because you asked if there were any more procedures, so I'm going out. Mr. President, since the hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister is extremely important for both the MPs and the entire Bulgarian people, I propose that the hearing be broadcast directly on BNT 2 and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u56	Mr. Hamid, it is broadcast on BNT 2, as it is a form of parliamentary control. I'm not sure about BNR just a second to check. It's also being broadcast on BNR. Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria is the only EU country that has not yet received funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. DPS for the fourth time in the last year wants a hearing of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. This is because it has not been formally represented by the government in full since it was submitted to the European Commission last October by the caretaker government and the Commission's comments were received in December. After the DPS submitted the request for a hearing, an extraordinary council of the ruling coalition was held urgently to present the Plan and improvised public discussion in quotes of projects in transport, health and energy. Both events were clearly provoked by the request of the DPS for a hearing and were in fact a crisis PR action in order to show active work on the Plan, as well as transparency in quotes of this work. We hope that today there will be a real discussion which will produce proposals that will best protect Bulgaria's national interests. Main issues in the Plan. From what we have heard, we at the DPS have huge concerns about the compliance of projects with Bulgaria's national interests, especially in the areas of transport and energy, as well as in other areas, but here it is most prominent, where the included projects are not justified as part of the general concept of reforms in both areas, which obviously there is no, and there is no analysis of the socio-economic consequences that will be severe. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, my question is: we expect an answer to what commitments will be made by the government in relation to the European Commission's request to speed up the closure of coal, electricity and heat plants, given what was set out in the Policy..................................................................... On this occasion, you, Mr. Vassilev, stated that a specific commitment with capacity closure will not be made in the Plan and that there is no way to remove the old before the new, because otherwise we remain in the dark, but we explained that Bulgaria has commitments to reduce the carbon emissions. In this context, 40% of the capacity of the plants in the Maritsa-East will be reduced. According to the estimates of the trade unions of the SSTB and of the SSTS, a reduction of this 40% automatically leads 4200 people to be unemployed, to be on the street. According to NSI, this means 12 thousand people to be harmed with their families, and those working in the US power plants whose long-term contracts expire in 2024 and 2026 respectively. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we expect an answer in how these commitments are linked to the social consequences of their implementation, what measures are specifically identified, if any, not to allow so many people to be left out of work at once and no alternative to restructuring energy in general. Thirdly, it is important to note that the Plan does not provide for the financing of replacement of coal power plants because the European Commission's requirements do not allow this. It is important to recall that the coal plants in Bulgaria produce one third of the electricity, or 32% per year. NPP "Kozloduy" production 21%, hydroelectric power plants in Bulgaria, including NEC's large plants, produce 5.9% of electricity, wind power plants produce 2,5%, photovoltaic power plants "1.9%" and so on. The plan provides, evidently following adjustments made by the current government, an increase in funding for renewable energy projects. However, it is apparent that RES projects cannot be replaced by the capacity of these one-third capacities. The plan includes a project that raises many questions: to build battery storage containers of renewable energy with a capacity of 6000 megawatts, as well as geological studies to detect geothermal sources of energy production. In your words, Mr. Vassilev, in order for the battery container project to take place, it must start running immediately and start making payments, because this should be done by the end of 2026. These are the regulations. The geological research project for geothermal energy has also not been approved. It is not known whether such power sources with the kind of power we want will be found at all. As regards these three projects, justified doubts arose that they were related to specific private economic interests and that only the name of the contractor was not indicated. The other question I want an answer to is this expectation: what basic replacement power is envisaged for those who would eventually be closed for 2038. In fourth place, there is concern that what is envisaged in the area of transport is to be purchased in the absence of such infrastructure wagons and high-speed locomotives, something that we undoubtedly need, but this must be laid down. Finally, it is important to note a number of substantial remarks from the European Commission, namely that the Plan does not meet the European Commission's structural requirements and instead lay down specific reforms with specified objectives and deadlines for implementation, it has been developed as an operational programme. For many of the projects, the European Commission notes that there are problems with the determination of costs either with regard to their justification or eligibility or due to doubt of double funding and so on. As an example, even for such indisputable projects, such as the modernisation of railway transport and the Sofia subway, it is noted that they are not sufficiently well justified. Also, frequent comments are made on the existence of unacceptable State aid. Prime Minister, we expect an answer: have they already been removed in the revision of the European Commission's comments plan and how specifically. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, on the Programme Partnership Agreement 2021, and on the operational programmes we should be in the second year of the period and still... [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm done. ... not approved partnership agreements and operational programmes to be financed by the Cohesion and Structural Funds of the European Union. Apparently, this year too, unfortunately, will be a zero year. I hope not! My question is: when will the Agreement be signed and if the beneficiaries are ready to start implementing the programmes quickly. Regarding the Project of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, I would like to ask, as far as I know, it is not classified information, why there is no publicity of this plan, to see exactly what is at stake, how it is at stake, to have a broad discussion, public discussion and to make the right decisions. And I will end again with the fact that unfortunately, Bulgaria is the only country that at this stage does not receive funds and we are the only country that has not submitted the Recovery Plan to the European Commission. We must speed up this process in view of the Bulgarian national interests. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Procedure by Philip Popov. Come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I would like to take the moment that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is here, and say two words about the change Mr. Dunchev here is defending from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u60	Mr. Popov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u61	This is what, honourable MPs, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is the change of Mr. Dunchev. [[Shows picture material.]] This is Georgi Donchev's boss, his name is...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u62	Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u63	...the director of the Regional Forest Directorate in Sliven. Here, not Hekimian, but here with the arrow of a rally of GERB. Is that the change, Mr. Dunchev?! Is that your change?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u64	Mr. Popov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u65	Those are the high-ranking professionals? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for such a change. Something else we meant when we formed this coalition, not this change. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Gives the Deputy Prime Minister a picture.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u67	I present to your attention, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Popov. [[Gives the President a picture. Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u69	This is the change of your colleague Mr. Dunchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u70	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u71	That's right. The question is just provocative with this guy, because with the same red color, other people are installed. We're right up against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u72	How do you know him?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u73	Please, no lines. If you have a discussion, hold it outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u74	I was his lecturer at the University of Lesotechnics and was one of the excellent students at the University of Lesotechnics where I taught. This guy, like everyone else, whether they're political red, blue, green, pembeni doesn't matter at all. Our idea is that what we want from your minister is that he has rules to follow, that it does not depend on what his political decoration is, but what his professional character is. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u75	Thank you. Let's listen to Assen Vassilev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chakarov, many of the things you have said are not true I give it to lack of information, not to maliciousness. So I'll start in a row. Firstly, what you said was that there was a crisis PR and that is why the public discussion took place, and then, for example, the hearing in the Commission yesterday. Mr. Chakarov, the public discussion was made when the new projects were ready. There was no way to make public discussions on projects that were not ready, on projects that were not discussed with the European Commission, and on projects that were not discussed with industry, the Ministry of Energy and everything else. This public discussion is not a precedent. If you remember, during the first office on various topics there was exactly this type of public discussion that had been held, and they were not a crisis PR. Specifically on your issues regarding the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. If you remember, from this tribune I said that it is very important for Bulgaria to have a plan that is good, and it is much more important than having a plan that is quickly adopted. What did I mean and what do I keep saying? The plan that we found, coming as a regular cabinet, envisioned the closure of 1600 megawatt coal plants in the Marishka basin by 2026. The dispute was whether it was 1400 or 1600, but it envisaged the closure of coal power plants or TPP 2, or TPP 1 and TPP 3, and the construction of a steam power plant in their place. If we had adopted this plan, Bulgaria would now be committed to building a gas plant in the absence of gas and gas prices that exist at the moment and at the same time to shut down 1600 megawatts from coal plants that have national resources and are critical to the security of the energy system. We didn't accept that plan. We said that this is not working for the Bulgarian energy system and we started negotiations with the Commission so that this can be stopped and a plan which the Commission can adopt that meets the objectives of the Green Deal, but which does not pose such a mortal danger to the Bulgarian energy system. The moment the projects were ready, the talks with the Commission have progressed, we have had a public discussion to discuss both with industry and experts and with people the absolutely publicly alternative plan that we are proposing and which will be closed with the Commission by 15 March this year at the technical level. These are the assurances we received. From there on, you know, we can begin the preliminary implementation of projects that are closed at technical level, so that payments that are provided for in the budget can begin immediately after that date. And there's a purely technical approval process that'll pass in a few weeks after that. What does the new plan provide? First of all, it does not foresee that these 1600 megawatts will be closed. In 2019, we have set targets for reducing carbon emissions, and they need to be implemented, there is no way to review them. These objectives mean that although all plants continue to work, they will have to work in a smaller period of the year. There must be a 40% reduction in carbon emissions. However, this does not threaten our energy system, because, as you know, the summer peak is about 4500 megawatts, which can safely be taken over by all the other available capacities. The problem in Bulgaria is with the winter peak, which is between 7500 and 8,000 megawatts, when we need coal capacities to make sure that we do not have a breakdown in the system. From this point of view, the security of the energy system is guaranteed. As far as new projects are concerned. As you know, the Fit for 55 package, which is being discussed in Europe, which now includes the transport sector, and everything else as part of a carbon footprint reduction, means that sooner or later the production of electricity from energy sources that are subject to carbon emission allowances will become too expensive. So what Bulgaria does in the framework of the Plan is to build an opportunity for energy storage, so that when we have energy produced during the day, it can be used in the evening, because our winter peak is dark, cold January or February evening. That is, the energy that we have produced within the day from the most diverse sources, when consumption is also lower, we must be able to use when we need it. To this end, there is a PAVEC in our energy system, which we found with a working turbine of four, the second one is now released, in a few months the third and fourth I think will be released within the year. The other thing that we have staked in the Plan is a large capacity of battery capacity, which is 6,000 megawatt hours, which can supply high energy of about 1 gigawatt, i.e. reduce the peak of consumption by 1 gigawatt. These capacities will be built on a competitive basis in Bulgaria, such as auction management, so that there is no doubt, as you said, that they were known producers and so on, all of this will be managed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, according to its rules and procedures. If you think they're corrupt, maybe we have differences of opinion. The same applies to geothermal research. The truth is that we have maps from the late 1980s, which show a large presence of geothermal resources, it has been proven to be low temperature of the depths in which this resource is explored. It has been studied in depths from about 800 to 1800 m. What needs to happen now is to do research into larger depths to see what temperatures are there, but even if we accept the low temperature resource, it is enough for heating. It is enough for vegetable production and all kinds of greenhouse complexes. It is enough for us to actually reduce energy consumption at least through heating. There are already several pilot projects that yesterday the Ministry of Energy signed with six municipalities in this particular area with the low-temperature resource, which is known to go to heating projects, which once reduces our dependence on gas on heat efficiency, the second time reduces the need for energy consumption through the electricity grid, where there is no gasification. So even if we can't reach a high temperature resource or a medium temperature resource with binary technology for electricity production, this project is not pointless because it helps reduce the consumption of electricity and gas in the country. As to whether the projects in the Programme "Transport" are meaningful. In general, in the Operational Programme "Transport" in the last programming period was asked the construction of high-speed lines some of them were built. From Plovdiv to Svilengrad and from Plovdiv to Burgas there are already high-speed lines. Septemvri - Plovdiv - the route, as far as I know, is also complete. Currently under construction the route from Sofia to September, which was to be completed at the end of 2023. If it will be completed, we may know in a few months. What we are lacking are trains and locomotives, rolling stock, moving along these high-speed lines, as well as security and train management systems, so that this service can eventually reach the citizens. The fact that we have a high-speed line Plovdiv "Burgas" is of no use to any of us if there is no train Plovdiv "Burgas," which can be enough for an hour, hour and a half. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is what is set out in the Recovery Plan and the management and security systems. The same applies to suburban railways, which also do not require additional infrastructure, but buy rolling stock and management systems on already existing rails. From this point of view, we also have an additionality between the transport and road transport programmes, we take the rolling stock and the management systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We're moving on to the questions from... [[National Representative Iva Miteva wants the floor for procedure.]] Maybe a procedure, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u78	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Just a moment ago, the people representative Petar Petrov made a procedural proposal by proposing. 6 on the agenda on the basis of art. 49, para. 2, a proposal for a second move and become a t. 2 for today after the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev. Separately, propose extending parliamentary control over the time that will take up point. 2. When we voted, however, you proposed something completely different after that. 13 to be the Decision on annulment, and then, as you remember, on Wednesday, we voted to hear the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund. So if the will of the MP has been replaced and we have voted on your proposal twice, that is, after the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev, if it becomes 11.00, we move to parliamentary control, please put to the vote now the proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov as has been duly done. 2 for today to become the Decision on annulment, then to start parliamentary control and to be extended by as long as the time taken for the Decision on annulment is extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u79	I don't think we have any arguments about renumbering. Right, Mr. Petrov? Let me get this straight. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, it doesn't matter. Mr. Petrov, we don't have a fight over the renumbering, do we? [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, please. Just a second to be clear. Mr. Petrov, we don't have an argument over the renumbering, do we? The draft decision from yesterday, which is t. 12 in the program for the week, becomes t. 14, i.e. t. 13 and so on. 14 are shifting one way up, that is, the decision to cancel comes after Mr. Petko Salchev's hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u80	I didn't say that, I didn't say that. [[noise and lines]] I didn't say that. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u81	One second, one second. Can I have one thing at a time? [[Noise and lines.]] Now, at 11:00 we understand, but as a numbering your idea is the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev, then the hearing of the manager of the Health Insurance Fund. [[(Noise and lines from the National Representative Iva Miteva:]] Was it like that, or was it the other way around? [[Heckling]] Maybe I was wrong, no problem. [[Definitions aside from the microphones between President Nikola Minchev and the MP Petar Petrov.]] You said "t." 14 to stand up, Mr. Petrov, it is, only the other two, when they go up, t. 14 of the Project... Okay, we'll fix it. We'll put him to the vote again. There's no problem with that. Explain it clearly to everyone and we'll put it to the vote. Explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u82	Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to make one clarification. Earlier in my speech, I made the following proposal: we are listening to Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev the man has come here on his feet as he is under the rules. I, by the way, was also wearing the agenda paper, and I made a suggestion: after his hearing, i.e. 2 for today to be the solution for the green certificate. And not only that, dear colleagues. Given that parliamentary control should normally begin at 11:00, my proposal was that it should shift, and that is why I told you twice that the pace of parliamentary control will not change. I was as diplomatic as possible to the President because every Friday parliamentary control does not end with all the questions, we are only looking at a few questions and therefore I said diplomatically to the President that even if it starts later, which was the idea of my proposal for parliamentary control, all the questions will not be heard anyway. That is what I have said to you, honourable Members of Parliament, and that is what I have proposed. I just said it more diplomatically, not to make accusations that this is how the program is done, that at three o'clock parliamentary control we listen to only part of the questions and to my question specifically to the Minister of Defence to wait a month. I said it more diplomatically simply, but I suggested that this parliamentary control be further back, respectively, not to start at 11:00 and end when the Lord says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u83	Okay. [[Heckling]] No, it's okay. There's an opportunity to see the express transcript, but I don't think it's necessary now to look for who's wrong, who's right. Okay, that's how we're gonna put it to the vote. After the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev to move on to the draft decision to repeal the previous decision on access to the buildings, then to move on to the hearing of Petko Salchev or to start parliamentary control? [[Heckling]] Let Mr. Petrov speak. [[Heckling]] We're not going through. We move on to parliamentary control after that. [[Noise and lines.]] No, Mr. Petrov will say it. [[Replys from MP Iva Miteva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, with my proposal, I have been trying not to start this parliamentary control at 11:00 before, but to start later and so on. 2 to be our solution for the green certificate after the deputy prime minister is heard and to shift back control. You still won't say it, and you still say that at 11:00, we'll begin control.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u85	No, I don't mean that control will start...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u86	Well, no, the controls won't start.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u87	I mean, once we're done with the green certificate, we start with control, and the control will be three hours. That's how we do it? [[Noise and lines: "Yes, yes. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u88	Let's start later, don't start at 11:00. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, that's because it's fixed. That's what I said in my first nine-something speech. I don't think we have any disagreements, do we? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u89	Okay, that's settled. That is to say today's agenda: the hearing we are currently holding, then the green certificate, then the parliamentary control, then the parliamentary control to be three hours, respectively the meeting to be extended enough to have parliamentary control for three hours. [[Heckling]] Voting mode. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u90	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u91	They voted 198 MPs in the House and 1 online.. 199: for 108, against 22, abstentions 68 and 1 online "69." The motion is accepted. We continue with the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev. Questions from the parliamentary groups. First, we continue the Change. Is there a question? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Both today and yesterday we heard accusations from the opposition that we are one of the last countries without a prepared plan and final plan for recovery and sustainability. I think that you have explained quite well that it is better to have a plan that works than just a plan and my assessment of what you are doing is really positive, because by adopting projects that will lead us to a higher dependence specifically on natural gas supplies and so on are unnecessary. So I ask for more public clarification on what challenges you must face with the update of the projects in the Plan, and the specific question to you is on what are the energy efficiency measures that will eventually be covered by the Plan and will be approved by the Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u94	Mr. Tabutov, thank you for the question. As I said, there is a reason why the plan was not submitted by the GERB government last year before the elections and why negotiations with the European Commission lasted so long. And that reason is simple. Bulgaria does not want and will not give up its energy independence, so that our electronic and energy system works with national resources. Any proposal that has been discussed or accepted for the closure of electricity plants and their passage of gas means that we put our electricity system directly depending on the presence of gas and the price of gas, which is a resource that Bulgaria does not control and in our region we have a major supplier who is currently at war with the European Union and put us on a list of hostile countries. [[Relations from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u95	No lines from place. You will have opportunities for questions and for attitude. Please, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u96	As far as other measures are concerned, there are very large-scale measures relating to the installation of small solar plants, there are measures relating to renovations, a very large renovation programme within the Plan to help improve energy efficiency. We have already talked about geothermal energy sources, which even under low temperature mode can help with heating and heating of greenhouses. Last but not least, there are a lot of measures that are related to the construction of photovoltaic and wind power plants, as well as the storage of this energy. Measures outside the Plan, if we are talking about the overall energy strategy, include the construction of new nuclear power, include the construction of greater capacity on existing water plants, the expansion of PAVEC, Yadenitsa, investigating the possibility that some of the other stunts could be used in PAVEC mode, which would give us additional flexibility in the system. All of this is outside the Plan, because by 2026 it cannot be completed or does not correspond to do not do significant Harm, that is to say not to cause significant damage, which really means not to do any harm, a principle which is enshrined in the Plan and largely does not allow projects related to water plants and nuclear energy to be included in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Desislava Trifonova on behalf of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for being here today. A few details regarding your speech. Firstly, the GERB government has never committed itself to closing base capacities, this was done by the first office in which you participated as a finance minister. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] . The second thing, I think the current prime minister was an unconstitutional minister of the economy at the time. He then turned the grants into financial instruments. Third, thanks to your December plan, notes of 43 pages have been received, which you are still removing. In addition, Bulgaria has lost an opportunity to benefit from 1.6 billion in December. lv. advance. [[Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev nodded with his head.]] You admit it, thank you for that. In this regard, yesterday it became clear that on 15 March we will have a recovery plan or will we have technically approved projects? I understand from the media that you said we would have a recovery and sustainability plan. So far, so good. It has become clear in the Commission that you will give 1.5 billion. lv. For batteries, 650 million. lv. For trains and 200 million lv. for geothermal plants. With regard to projects, whether they are appropriate or not, we have yet to see because they were not subjected to broad public discussion as should be, the Plan has also not been published. We do not really know what you are talking to the Commission and exactly what you are sending to the Commission. But the more important issue is that under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism Regulation, Bulgaria must negotiate 8.7 billion this year, i.e. 70% of the Plan must be agreed this year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please explain to me exactly how much you intend to negotiate on these projects by 31 December 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u99	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u100	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Trifonova. Maybe I didn't make myself clear. The reason you didn't send the Plan is because you had to make such commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u101	That's not true! [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] It was all agreed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u102	Absolutely everything was agreed, but we didn't send the Plan because... [[speaking indistinctly]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u103	Why on the first day without lying?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u104	Mr. Stankov, wait for the second question, for a hearing, for consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u105	We're moving on to your question. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u106	What gives you reason to say these things? I won't, because that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u107	Because we know the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u108	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u109	Let's wait for Mr. Vassilev to say and you'll have a second question. You will also be able to express your attitude not from the place. We're listening, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u110	As far as your question about the requests is concerned, yes, they have been removed. As for your other question about the public discussion or rather a comment, such a discussion has been made and continues to be made. " Yesterday we were in the Commission, today we are in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u111	This is not a discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u112	This isn't a discussion, but what is it? Hearing, I apologize. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Well, you tell yourself your opinions on the matter, so we can accept it for discussion. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] From this year onwards, the budget provides for revenue of 1.3 billion and expenditure of 1.6 billion to actually make payments on the projects, not only contracted but actually paid and actual revenue from advances on the projects concerned. As for what part of the projects will be able to be negotiated within this year, I can give you a detailed reference, I do not have it here at the moment. What we expect a large part of energy projects to be able to be negotiated, projects that are related to the construction of additional RES facilities are estimated so that in a four-year period, rhythmically they can be made. A large part of the projects in the Transport Programme can be negotiated. We are currently working on a scheme so that projects that are related to renovation can be quickly unscathed on the basis of the accumulated projects that are sitting and waiting under the National Programme. The other thing we are talking about is the projects that are related to digital transformation, also for the most part, to be able to be negotiated within the year. In total, I'll lie to you, but I think we're talking about 5 billion. BGN to be negotiated within the year.. Maybe a little more. Again, this also depends on the implementation of the Plan by the different ministries and the Managing Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. The next question is from DPS Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister Vassilev, the question I am going to ask you is of particular sensitivity to the DPS. By the way, we expected it to be quite natural and you to have sensitivity on this subject, but let's see. In Part One, General objectives and coherence in the Plan, p. It is a level playing field between women and men and equal opportunities for all and it is pointed out that the Recovery and Sustainability Plan also prioritizes equality between different groups in society. In theory, this should also cover issues related to Roma inclusion and equality. It's practically not like that again. The European Commission raises the question why, despite the high risk of poverty and social exclusion of Roma, much higher than those of the general population, it is not explicitly considered in component E 2 for social inclusion. The EC also raises the question why, despite worse health compared to the general population, often combined with more limited access to health care of members of disadvantaged groups, including the Roma, it is not considered in component D 3, which applies to healthcare. Moreover, the Commission reminds the government that, based on the EU framework for Roma equality from October 2020, Bulgaria, together with the other Member States, has been invited to make full use of available Union funding and national co-financing to promote the socio-economic integration of marginalized communities, including Roma. Last but not least, the EC invites the government to outline in the section on gender equality and equal opportunities of all measures planned to address the problems of vulnerable ethnic communities, including Roma communities, regardless of the source of funding. By the way, because documents are hidden here, as they were not hidden before 1989, our reading of the last available documents shows that many topics, such as child poverty, energy poverty, gender equality, as well as active desegregation and non-discrimination policies, are also not addressed. So my question is in this regard: will you include in the Recovery Plan measures to address the problems of vulnerable ethnic communities, including Roma communities, including measures for their social inclusion to improve health and education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u116	Mr. Anastasov, the measures included in the Plan are to overcome poverty and social problems in all ethnic groups, not in specific ethnic groups. That's the principle of equality. Regardless of what sex, what ethnic group, you have equal access to these services. You know better than I do the projects that are at stake, they've been public since October 15th. There is continuing support for the deinstitutionalization of care for elderly and disabled people, with the total amount of national co-financing being 753 million - personal mobility and accessibility of people with disabilities - 24 million - modernization of the material base and the introduction of information technologies in the Agency for Social Assistance - so that it can actually help people - we are talking about a little less than 10 million - additional funds for the Employment Agency to help these people get involved in the labour market - we are talking about around 32 million. These funds are not ethnically targeted. They are aimed at all those who are disadvantaged, all those who are at risk of poverty, all who are currently institutionalized, regardless of their ethnicity. As you yourself said, in some ethnic groups, this percentage is higher, so they will also receive more support, because this percentage is higher. But to make programs on purpose aimed at specific ethnic communities would, in my opinion, be a huge mistake. This, on the one hand, stigmatizes these communities and says: "You can't do it alone. " on the other hand, creates a division in the Bulgarian society and a third country, lays down a principle in the support, which is not related to the disadvantage of the person concerned, but is related to the belonging to a particular ethnic community, which would be a huge mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Is there a question for Bulgaria? There's Dragomir Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vassilev, yesterday in the Committee on European Affairs you have detailed, comprehensively presented the Recovery Plan. I believe that colleagues who have been present will hardly have any questions to the Plan, but in the end there may be some questions left that we have not explained. Mainly driven by energy problems for large investments, which this plan will really provide, there is still one issue that is perhaps mainly people and business, mostly interested. In the grant resource Bulgaria will use, it amounts to approximately 6 billion. 300 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. We also have the opportunity to borrow, as much of the countries do. When GERB did not support my initiative to look at this plan in the National Assembly, therefore in France, in Italy, in other countries is viewed in parliament and this plan found greater sensitivity, greater understanding, greater support and therefore a large part of these countries resorted to loans. Why, colleagues, loans? Because they're really low-interested when you want to make the most of it, it's perfectly normal to take a loan that you'll then pay back. Okay, but the state gave up this loan, and in this plan you are de facto reformatting or not reformatting, because this is my main question when you presented the changes to the ratio between grant schemes and financial instruments yesterday. If there is a change, colleagues, we encourage business to take financial instruments and explain how good this is. We at Left say that better is business, at this moment needs more grant schemes. You from the Change and you say: No, no, the financial instruments are more important. However, at the same time, what example we give the State is refusing to take a loan because the financial instruments, colleagues, it is a kind of loan, it is not good for us to borrow, but you, the business, will take a loan because you see, it is better for you. Yeah, but the business says, "We want grant schemes. " There was a mix-up and it didn't really get clear because you didn't make it look like a change yesterday. Please explain to us, lastly, the ratio between financial instruments and grant schemes, and what is it really like to value it? Eddie-how many hundreds of millions are for grant schemes, so hundreds of millions are for financial instruments, really being clear in the final version that says, by the way, thanks to the progress it has, it will be expected to be adopted on 15 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u119	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u120	Thanks for asking, Mr. Stoinev. Maybe we should start with why and in the current version of the Plan we do not use the loan instrument. The simple reason is that Bulgaria can take loans, direct, at lower interest rates and with less conditions. In the budget we voted on, we are borrowing to make national investments. We don't need the instrument of the Recovery Plan to take loans. Countries with higher debt to GDP or much less grant component use part of the loaned in the Recovery Plan. As regards the issue of grant instruments in relation to financial instruments. The value of grant instruments as an absolute amount is the same as was requested by the industry and approved in the first version of the Plan. What happened in the summer version, and in this version, and therefore I have not given it as a change, is that the value of the financial instruments has been increased, that is, giving more money to the business, the same grants more financial instruments. Why do we think that's a good thing? Because right now what we are seeing is a smooth rise in interest rates and it will continue. Because of inflation, the European Central Bank is starting to raise interest rates. Accordingly, what we have so far had is interest of one, two to three percent, on which the business can be financed, and the more risky five-six, in fact, are likely to jump up. Jumping up, it is extremely important that businesses have access to relatively cheap loans. And if you remember 2013, there was a credit program at half interest and so on, all this requires financial assistance from the state through the Plan so that loans remain open to business. We can argue for a long time whether this is better than a direct grant or not, but the truth is it reaches more companies. The required financial resources by the state are smaller and it can reach more companies and they can be financed under better conditions than banks. This may not have been very critical in the last one, two, three years when interest rates were low, but we believe it is becoming extremely important in the next four, five years, where we expect a serious increase in interest rates. So the business isn't damaged, he gets his grants as set out, but more money is at stake for financial instruments. The proportion is different, but it is not different because the grants are reduced, but because the financial instruments are increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. On behalf of the "There is such a people"? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Vassilev, I begin first with the admiration of the efforts you are making to remove in full all the remarks of the European Commission, and to present really a plan that will be good for Bulgaria. The very name of this plan also contains its extreme importance, because it not only needs to restore Bulgaria from all the crises it has gone through and continues to go through, but it also needs to pre-determine the development of this country within several subsequent generations, because what we are doing now is going to have generations coming forward. I am pleased that you are present at all the committees to which you are invited to explain the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, but do you not think it is appropriate to see it in black and white? It's very nice to have an opinion on stories, but it's even better when you've read it and you've seen it with your own eyes. I do not know why the information about this Sustainability and Development Plan is kept so zealously, if you say so, we will go and read it in the secret case of the National Assembly or at the Council of Ministers. We're only listening to what's coming in energy. Is this country just energy, forgive me? We are interested in what will happen in agriculture; what will happen in education; what will happen in healthcare. I understand that energy is currently the most fragile issue and that is why everyone is spending so much time on it. It is undoubtedly important because in the end energy is the structural-determining industry, it depends on everything else. I think you'll really only benefit from this if you make this plan visible so we can get to know it in detail. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u123	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u124	Thank you for your constructive comment, Mrs. Vasileva. The plan is visible, which was transmitted on October 15th with all the tickets that have not been changed, for example agriculture has not been touched, this is visible. The new projects were not visible because very intense discussions were going on with the Commission. They are also visible after yesterday's discussion, I have to check with my colleagues, so there should not be any dramas there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! I will also stress because we are talking here about specific projects in specific sectors, but we know that the whole table has all the tickets, whether updated or not, compared to the month of October. A larger number of lines are in reforms and not so much to spend, but things about changing the structure of their happening in the country concerned and one of the important things that this plan is talking about is linking the absorption of funds to the rule of law. Could you give us a little more information about whether something has changed in planned reforms in Bulgaria? And how exactly will what you have gained with all the interactions with the Commission as impressions be linked to the continuation of the funds under the Reform Plan, especially in the area of rule of law?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. You're on a very important subject. Unlike operational programmes, money under the Plan is to be returned if we do not do our job on reforms. But as for the rule of law, there are now far more ambitious goals than what was set before. They are related to a reform of the prosecution and basically everything that is enshrined in the coalition agreement and does not include constitutional changes is laid down in the Recovery Plan, which was also one of the requirements and main comments of the European Commission on the Plan, which was submitted in October. Together with the Ministry of Justice, we worked, they reviewed the coalition agreement and everything that does not require a constitutional majority is laid down as a reform of the Recovery Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. From the parliamentary group of a party of rebirth? Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u130	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I would like to add to the statement that it would be easier to comment on something that we have seen, read, is subject to some normal discussion, heard different opinions, not only from your side of the executive, but also from all the parties concerned, but it is clear, anyway, that it will not happen. As you have said, we in your stories now have to guess and ask questions about your speeches, which are not always clear enough, for which I regret to say it, but it is. Some time ago, maybe a week ago, you were talking about some nuclear power that we never knew were available, are you going to do it now, where you're going to do it, how you're going to do it, how they're related to us, is there anything there in the Plan on this issue? The other thing you actually very often comment on are those battery parks around Stara Zagora that you like to mention. However, this thing, when you started talking about it, the circumstances were different, the situation and the situation were different, and at the moment, we did not have to make any changes again at the last moment, given the appreciation of the raw materials. Where and how will these raw materials be used, where will they enter, how will we make them? You say you want to make them in Bulgaria, and when will this production take place? You say you're willing to pay any percentages that you think are justified to produce them here, but with what raw material? At the moment, the lithium rises by 30%, there is an upward trend, and do you currently have a new financial justification that is up to date in relation to this particular project of yours that we, again, say, have not seen in black and white and it is quite difficult for us to comment in greater depth? I hope you'll respond in detail, because that's all we're really gonna be left with, with the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u132	Mrs. Mihailova, I would love it if the administration worked with words. She, unfortunately, works with paper yet. So we won't stay with the words, and there's plenty of paper. As far as your question is concerned, whether there is a new financial justification, yes, the amounts have been recalculated, yes, it has been introduced, anyway, since the very beginning of the escalation of the prices of metals. No, we don't expect, for example, the price of nickel to remain at these levels in 2026. We expect the markets to calm down. There will certainly be an increase in prices, certainly they will not be what they are now. What you're asking me: can we, with the available resources, purchase these 6000 megawatts of batteries, the answer is yes, we can. If it turns out that there is a very big price increase and all kinds of other things, do there are plans to escalate down to, there are plans to escalate down. Is this going to make the project economically inactive? No, it won't make it economically inactive. I hope that answers your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Moving on to the second round of questions. Are there any of us from the Change Continue? No. From GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is reconnected to the notorious batteries. I do not know who is interested in these batteries, certainly not Bulgarian energy. There are countries that build batteries on a much smaller scale, of course, like Australia, which has specific needs in terms of its energy system or in the state of California, where the case is the same. No one in the world has ever set a target before and made such a large battery for nothing else, but because it cannot be repaid. My question to you is: how did you decide that we needed storage at all? Have you compared the various technologies, do you have a financial analysis, and can you present it to us? From your interviews in the last days we have learned that the requirement for these batteries will be to be able to recharge 7500 times, i.e. to have 7500 cycles and this will be presented as a service to traders, for example, who need such a service, and the price will cost 10 BGN. Ten euros, that's right. It doesn't come out, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because 7,500 10 euros charge is 75,000 euros, and one such battery costs 250,000 euros per megawatt hour. How will you guarantee that these batteries will be produced in Bulgaria? It's a discriminatory criterion. The European Commission will never, under any circumstances, allow you in the tender procedure to have a requirement for these batteries to be produced in Bulgaria or in any way to fix the construction of a factory in Bulgaria. It seems to me that you're just saying that to make this, in other words, a scandalous idea. In fact, the battery project is so scandalous that it remains in the shadow of another purely lobbyist interest in this plan, and this is the interest of the company " Postscriptum" as far as we know it wants to receive, not only it, but also other companies probably, grants for renewable energy projects, which is incomprehensible to us, provided that, without any grants in Bulgaria, the most modern thing is to develop projects for RES and already there are requests submitted to the system operator for more than 15 000 megawatts. Why, if there is no personal private interest, is it claimed in the media, including that it is the company of Postscriptum, I hope it is not related to you or to another member of the government, will grant grants from the RES Project Plan? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. You have the floor, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u136	Mr. Dobrev, obviously you weren't paying attention in math class. [[Voices: "Auuu!" by GERB-SDS.]] You said 7,500 recharges of 10 euros, which I said in megawatt hours. Now let's multiply by megawatt hour! From now on, grenades are not given for RES projects. Grants are given for the battery component, which is required to be 30% of the real energy, which is the real installed power of the relevant RES installation. Last but not least, this whole thing is being managed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development just so there are no suspicions of any personal interest. And what I think is extremely important to say, because you said how we did an analysis that we need storage times. Let me ask you: do we need PAVEC? What would the Bulgarian energy system be, and how would any green power be involved if there was no PAVEC, which is just a battery? My second question is: with these 15 thousand megawatts, which you are talking about, which are placed as projects that want to be realized in the country, how will they be balanced? How will we ensure that when the sun shines, all that power, all that power can be used when we need it? You know as well as I do that the peak in Bulgaria is when the sun does not shine at night in winter. And that's why we need power, where we can store energy and use it when we need it, so that all that energy that's cheaply produced can be used when we need it. In the original plan, which was provided as much as Mr. Donchev says that there was no commitment to close the capacity, a steam plant was installed. [[(Reply from GERB SDS: In your plan!]] This steam plant is an absolutely non-costable project for two reasons. One of us sees it today when we're wondering if we're gonna have gas or not. And the other is because even if we build it, in seven years we have to close it down, to 10, for purely economic reasons related to quota prices. [[Reply from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]] Yeah, it'll do us good. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u137	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u138	Personal explanation? [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, have any of you figured out where the error in 7500 times 10 is 75 grand? Is that right, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u140	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u141	And the price for megawatts is 280 thousand. Euros, or 250 grand. It could be 350, because the nickel has jumped 400 percent in the last two weeks. In other words, the revenues from this project of yours will not pay off 20% of the investment you will make. And I didn't hear an answer to the question I asked you about Postscriptum? Was this firm involved in writing the Plan officially at the Ministry? Why does a private firm take attitude, give ideas? Does this private company develop renewable energy projects with batteries and are there people from the office connected to this company? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u142	From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Yes, come in, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u143	To be very clear, the answer is: none. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u144	Here you are, Mr. Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I will bring you back to the topic of transport and transportation. An investment of 5 is provided for in the project. The project aims to improve the safety of road traffic in the Republic of Bulgaria by creating conditions for sustainable road safety management. This investment provides for the development, integration of software applications for the management and priority of road activities to ensure road safety, as well as the establishment of a National Electronic System for the submission and processing of signals related to road infrastructure safety. According to the European Commission's remarks, road safety in Bulgaria is a very serious problem, and not only according to it, because deaths and severe injuries are among the highest in the European Union, and real measures in this direction are not laid down in the Plan. The Commission calls on Bulgaria to set a reduction target by 30% of the total rate of deaths and serious injuries from road accidents by mid 2025 compared to baseline in 2019 and to reduce by at least 50% the number of road safety risk points by the end of 2025 from baseline in 2019. In view of this, the European Commission proposes instead of proposals in the Investment Plan for Specialized Equipment and Software Applications to invest in infrastructure upgrades, removing risk points for road safety, as well as upgrading and securing tunnels for which there is a pending case for breach of European requirements and according to the European Commission would be more than an obvious choice. According to the European Commission, software applications seem a very complicated idea, but they are not necessary at this stage. In this regard, my question is: has this Commission note been taken into account in terms of transport connectivity in accordance with the European Commission's proposals? The second part of my question is what you said, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, regarding the European Commission's Plan to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030: what is the strategy and what are the measures that the government has taken in terms of transport? Since we have over 100,000 people employed both in the transport freight sector and in those who make components for the automotive industry, in reducing the harmful emissions, how will we keep those over 100,000 employed in this sector, provided that you said.... and it is so, of course, there is no way, we will reduce emissions by 55% by 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u146	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u147	Thanks for both questions. Regarding the first question, yes, the Commission's comments are taken into account. We have also recently voted on the budget, and there you have seen that in fact the funds for ongoing road repair have been dramatically increased, a large part of which will go exactly for such points. So this is not just about using European funds. It is about us doing our job at national level and making our national road safety investments, which are absolutely necessary. As for the heavier and more complex question you are asking about the decarbonisation of the transport sector. Within the framework of the Plan, there is a significant development of railway infrastructure, which is a natural way to achieve part of this objective. Because if more people and cargo can walk through railway infrastructure, it helps decarbonise the sector as a whole. I know that the Ministry of Transport is currently working on a comprehensive road transport strategy. It is beyond the context of the Recovery Plan and my advice is really very active with Minister Subev to work on this task. As far as financial security is concerned, we are committed to helping with this financial provision so that we are not surprised by the decarbonisation in transport in the way we are surprised by the decarbonisation in energy. It is good to prepare early so that we do not have to face very serious problems at the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Do you have a second question from the BSP parliamentary group, colleagues? You don't. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u149	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the PWU is fine. It is commendable that you are doing absolutely everything so that he can be accepted and accordingly go to work on it. But what's disturbing, which is specific to the maritsa-east complex, is that we don't have any alternative for reserve capacities there. Moreover, in some of your interviews you say that certain plants will be closed, which do not meet environmental standards. But directly related people working in these plants are more than 5,000 people. What's the alternative for these people? What is the alternative for the people working in the complex "Mini Maritsa East"? Yes, storage batteries that will be located on the ESO sites are fine. You know that energy is of national importance for both energy security and national security. I think we should really be very careful there. First, what we say, we must be very careful in the steps we are walking in. Energy must be developed 15 years ahead. We need to know what we're doing today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, after 10 years. We must have a clear vision of this. One battery, one battery factory, if we don't have replacement power, it's not gonna happen. And what's more, the alternative of these people who work in these plants, which you say are non-ecological, but these plants are also directly related to the supply of enriched energy fuel to several heat outputs that are in the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u150	Mr. Tenev, state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u151	Do we have a clear view of the energy complex Mini Maritsa-east and the people working there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u152	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u153	Thank you very much for the question. He, of course, I suppose, is primarily to Minister Nikolov as a man who makes energy policy. As long as the recovery plan and decarbonisation targets are extremely important, what we can say is what is set in the Plan from the point of view of the complex.. Mini Maritsa-east is that TPP 1, TPP 2, TPP 3 continue to work without having to remove the capacities from them. From this point forward, if we are talking specifically about the "Brickel" and "Bobov dol" like the two power plants that I mention often, they have given about 1% of the energy in the country last year, the last year and so on, so from the energy system's point of view these two power plants are not key. They are key, as you said, in terms of the social system and the people who work there in the region. There we have the Fair Transition Fund, which, under a clear concept of the Marishka Basin, can now be detailedly signed, as far as I know, this process goes to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development, and is used to help these people precisely and to enter new businesses in the region. From the point of view of the Plan, as we said, there is a requirement that the batteries not only be deployed but to be produced there. The other thing we know is that it's going to start happening right now, the process of reclamation of the parts of the mine used is highly neglected, not to say it's happening at very small speeds. This has to be accelerated. Last but not least, there is also a provision for the construction of an industrial area, preferential in particular in the coal region of Only under the Fair Transition Fund, which is outside the Recovery Plan, we are talking about a 1 billion resource. 800 million. BGN, if I'm not mistaken. Separately in the plan, there is a resource for an industrial zone, there is provided, as you know, as part of the batteries there will be a provision for the plants that are there, so that really complex between the three resources and real work in the region that should be able to provide well-paid jobs for all these people and a gradual smooth transition. That's what's at stake, again, from the perspective of the Recovery Plan. From the point of view of the energy strategy and the Plan for a fair transition are indeed Minister Karadjov and Minister Nikolov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u155	Madam President, Prime Minister! Unfortunately, the problems in the electricity market will continue this year, and they have expanded because of the insane aggression in Ukraine, the needy war, of course, I mean. In this regard, I wanted to ask you about an element that was not... there was an element that was discussed, but it was not explained what was the place of it in the Recovery Plan, and these are smart grids that reduce the demand values of consumption and help with less production in practice to meet the needs. Now, I realize that this is a huge investment, and if you could make it the private sector, that would be good. The question is whether the Recovery Plan supports this process, if necessary even methodologically, would still be useful, or coordinated, or in any other way. We and our colleague Georgi Ganev and the Democratic Bulgaria have asked ourselves the question, because this is a huge investment, we realize that it is difficult enough and complicated to do, but already many European countries are thinking and working on the issue.... if it cannot be realized with the current resource, that this can be an occasion for attracting borrowed resources and an additional Recovery Plan, if that is how you imagine it, because the issue is really important and despite the huge investment there is a chance that it will be paid in view of the overall development in the electricity markets in Bulgaria and in Europe. But if you've found a way for the private sector to absorb these costs and investments, that's, of course, I say, the best option. Are we helping this process and its realization with the Recovery Plan? That is our specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u156	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The plan included a total of 611 million to improve the transmission network, of which 370 million came as a grant from the Plan and 241 million as a private co-financing of the project concerned. This investment is primarily aimed at a high voltage network, i.e. the ESO network. With regard to the networks average and low voltage, there we have had a number of talks with the operators of these networks -............................ and they have a clear investment plan in these networks, and at the moment in the measure provided for here, which is for the ECO, can be helped, as you said, analytically where there is a need for seats, it is clear where there are large capacities that want to join these networks, where the capacities should be strengthened, but the investments must be made by the companies concerned and they are anyway receiving a return on these investments through the electricity that we are all paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u158	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u159	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Minister! First of all, I must point out, as one of the previous issues concerned the question of..Brickel.... that we welcome this decision, it was an urgent and extremely late decision, and the social consequences that will actually have will be addressed at the expense of the health of the people in this region who suffer in an outrageous way from the work of this plant, precisely and specifically at this plant, which, as you said, produces an extremely negligible percentage of the mix. There are three TPPs in our area. We're commenting on the state. You and Minister Nikolov went to the States a few weeks ago, and I think you also met with the U.S. power stations. At least in a conversation with him I was left with this impression and since I am sorry, but it is only your media appearances to obtain this information, we do not have black and white, although we are in the National Assembly and we are MPs another official one, I ask you this question: how are the three plants involved in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, what are the Americans involved, are they currently planning any change in the way they work, because this has also been commented, again, unfortunately, I have to comment on it, based on media appearances, and in fact how will they continue to work? Because the situation we're in right now, the world situation we're in, even if the war ends tomorrow, none of us think we're going to recover very quickly. Given that Bulgaria is the poorest European country, given that we were faced with the wall and before these series of crises that are imposed on us, given that we still have coal capacities that the European Commission said a few days ago that we would tolerate and support, we believe that we should rather go not in reducing, but in increasing what we have available, and it can very quickly start to use and provide us with sustainability, stability and independence in terms of energy. In this regard, I ask you to tell us what is the participation of the two other plants, which we have not commented on today, I exclude the state-owned TPP Maritsa-East 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u161	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Mihaylova. The answer is quite clear. Firstly, there is no obligation in the Plan to close these capacities so that they can continue to work. Secondly, these capacities, together with the solid buy-in contracts until 2024 and 2026 respectively, remain, so we have solid buy-in contracts until 2024 and by 2026, which ensures that they will work at least until then. From then on, the plans of the plants are to try to mix the fuel, i.e. not pure coal, in order to reduce harmful emissions. This will, of course, depend on a market situation, on what will happen next year, year and a half and as a European policy, and as a cost of emissions. So there are no plans for these plants to stop working that we know of, and certainly by 2024 one by 2026 the other will not be terminated early, so they will also have an obligation to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the questioning is over. We begin by expressing our attitude towards the answers given. We begin with the Parliamentary Group of.. We continue the Change. Attitude? You don't have to express yourself. Mr. Donchev, come in from GERB-SDSS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u163	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs! In psychotherapy, there is one such maxim: The memory is pain, forgetting is therapy. - I'm sorry to start by trying to refresh your memory. Firstly, I specify that the steam plant project was not present in our latest version of the Plan, it appeared during the service governments. It is true that one cannot remember everything, but I hope that you have done your duties as a minister conscientiously and at least paid attention to it. The second that I would like to remind you of the last version of the Plan until the end of our mandate appeared probably a year ago. At the time, much of the political forces commented that this plan was outrageous and there was only, what it was like, theft and asphalt. The second and third versions of the Plan are between 85 and 80% the same. Now all you have to do is tell me what that means. That's the one! Refreshing everyone's memory, the reason the plan wasn't submitted is another. In the last days of the cabinet's mandate, Borisov 3 had several political forces, some of them represented in this parliament, others outside the parliament, who said they had better alternative plans. Better alternates! I haven't seen an alternative plan for a year, and one year you're processing the latest version of our plan, and it's 80% the same. So much for refreshing your memory. I could comment a lot on the content, but I prefer to focus on the fine correlation of two factors: time and money. The colleague Trifonova asked you a question... is it true that you have paid attention to the provisions of art. 12, § 2 and § 3 of Regulation 241, which indicates the rate at which funds must be spent. All we're talking about here is the Plan, we haven't made it to the operational programs. From the conversation between you and the National Representative Trifonova I realized that you easily announced that we would lose three billion this year. That's how it came out. That's not an accurate prognosis. My prognosis is that we will lose at least four, at least four! Because the pace of negotiation, even if the plan is approved in the middle of the summer, which is possible, I wish it, I cross my fingers, I besides opposition, in the first place, am a Bulgarian citizen. This means the rate of negotiation only under the.2.1 billion per month. If you add what needs to be negotiated from the budget, which has a generous investment programme for over 8 billion, and what should run under the operational programs, I advise you to pay attention to art. 105 of the general regulation, the Bulgarian state must negotiate about 4 billion per month. That's not gonna happen. Not even with a magic wand. One last, very collegiate council, no attempts at cheap political abuse. It happens when you run a project, when you arrange a public procurement, to make an irregularity or a mistake, it's not a crime. It is not good for the purposes of relations with the European Commission before you receive funding before it is approved, to declare your intention to spend it the wrong way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Welcome, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is urging this debate with the awareness that it is extremely important, even at this moment, for the whole Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian society. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your patience and for your kindness. Patience because you had to listen to fifty procedures and an internal coalition photo shoot, but this, as they say, should be a bonus. The specifics. I wrote down a lot of things that you said, but let's start from there, which I think is most important, from where your first statement is most important. The fact that the plan has not yet been adopted has not been agreed, you said it was more important to have a good plan than a plan. Perhaps in some circumstances, perhaps in some other specific cases, this is true as reasoning. I dispute it, it is not true! Do you know why? Because in this situation where we have several crises, in this situation where we have very severe inflation, it was more important to have a plan than a good plan. In another situation, it would have been true to have a good plan. In this situation, it was more true to have a plan, because this plan is primarily an anti-inflation tool. For several months, I have been paying attention to you from this platform of inflation, because this is the problem which is currently in the Bulgarian society, which we talked about on the occasion of the budget, and not only in Bulgaria, it is necessitating all the economic activity, savings. Not to mention, it'll be five minutes and I won't be able to tell you everything I want to tell you. This plan is also an instrument for tackling inflation, a very well-acclaimed macroeconomic investment target, as a repayment of inflation processes. Well, you don't have one tool that should have already acted, which, by the way, works in all the other countries. From this point of view you will say: we are a new government, I will answer you: no, you are not, because the plan stopped it when you were in the office. You may have had the right to stop him for some reason, but our opinion is that you shouldn't have. It should have been triggered at the time, because an advance is only taken in the first year. We missed that option, too. There's a lot to talk about in particular, there's no way in five minutes I can touch on it, but I can't miss out on some very important things. We do not have a partnership agreement and therefore the first year of the programming period is missed, we are about to miss the second. It will happen, alas, despite the effort. It is very important here, I start with the programs and the Partnership Plan, because more of the things you bet on, you want to bet on the Recovery Plan, they actually belong in the operational programmes. That's where the batteries belong, and all green policies, because the entire programming period is oriented towards green energy. The entire programming period is oriented towards decarbonisation. There is no point in reminding you of what programmes there are, including combined funding, including with the Investment Bank and so on, which exactly can implement the policies you want to bet in the Plan, that is, you had to speed up the Plan and push these decarbonisation projects into the programming period. That's where it was. I see, here colleagues questioned above all whether there is a need for the battery plan in question and you very rightly answer: there is a need. In fact, the problem is another yes, there is a need, but not here, and there should be used a resource from the entire programming period, which, once again, is oriented towards decarbonisation and towards green energy. From this point of view, I want to tell you this: we are a very well informed party, if you have noticed. You may not answer that question, but I'll say it for the record, so I can remind you later. We believe that the plan was stopped to design those projects that concern one person, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Be absolutely sure of that. When the plan is adopted and when the realization and production of batteries and all the other things start, we're going to take out this shorthand and I'm going to say it now. We have no fixation, as it seems at first glance, to the energy oligarch Prokopiev, but his projects have waited for them to rise. And it will be one of the main participants in the production of the batteries in question. We have been informed that this has also been about Solarpro in the production of these batteries. I'm saying it not to mess with you, there's no need for that now. I'm saying this because when that happens, we need to have a chance to remind him that we warned him back then. Because if it turns out to be true, we need to look into why a whole plan has been stopped, so many opportunities have been missed for the Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian business in order to realize some of its private interests, which could, by the way, be realized as any other Bulgarian businessman and on the agendas to do their homework, to participate. It's okay if it's good for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u166	Mr. Tsonev, time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u167	Yes, thank you. But our conviction, and it does not rest on doubts, rests on real facts, we will prove it when the Plan is adopted and when the realization of the projects in question begins. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u168	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u169	Mr. Tsonev, I'm really surprised at your last statement, and please, if you have any evidence, give it to us, we'll give it to the prosecution. I'm totally serious. Whatever evidence you have, hand them over to us, we'll turn them over to the D.A. to be investigated. This is an extremely serious accusation, and it must be investigated at the moment if it is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u170	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. From the BSP parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u171	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We understand the situation you are in, Minister, because you have de facto found a plan that was a collection of various projects. This plan was presented in Brussels as almost the country's recovery and sustainability plan, which did not fully meet the European criteria. Because, fellow Members, we have learned to absorb European funds, but as if we have not learned to absorb European ideas, European policies. With this plan, Europe aims to become a factor and a leading role in a new economic and global model, for Europe to have an advantage over other countries, and we had to take advantage of this plan. Unfortunately, however, it seems that because of the nature, because of what is inherited, we become consumers of European production rather than invest mainly in Bulgarian production. The idea that the batteries will be made in Bulgaria is good, but I am not convinced that for the short period we can really succeed. After all, there are also high-tech industries. In Germany, a huge factory is being built for an American company from which these batteries can eventually be taken, I speak at one first stage. But, Minister, Europe is talking about a hydrogen economy. In Germany, trains begin, buses move on hydrogen. We had to allocate more funds to the production of hydrogen, whether it would be green, whether it would be blue, whether it would be grey hydrogen, but this is really extremely important. It was necessary, for me personally, that this plan should perhaps be a little more ambitious and encourage this particular production, because Bulgaria should start to have an advantage over its neighbours, against its allies in the European Union, to have a real advantage over them in a particular direction, because we see that we are too far behind. It is precisely the way in which we rely on what Europe presents us as policies - whether it be the green deal, whether it be the digital transition, it is a key opportunity for Bulgaria and for the country to take a new path of economic development. Yeah, sanitization could be our priority. Yes, the purchase of new trains is also important because we need to get closer to this quality of life that exists in Europe, but we should not think so short-term. This plan must have the opportunity for Bulgaria to really think longer, to be precisely those measures that are in the hydrogen economy, so that Bulgaria can rank among the rich, innovative countries. Let's give way to these young people, mostly intelligent, to be here, to create a production that will further promote innovation, to really reveal such scientific centres where young people can find their realization. This is a European policy that, fellow Members, we need to understand that indeed the path is just a sharp change in the existing model. We can blame a lot. We of the Left also blame the lack of base capacity, that something must happen. Of course, energy in such a short period cannot suddenly absorb these funds, because a base power takes approximately 10 years to build, but, which I hope will happen. Moreover, at the moment, Kozloduy has enough funds to buy its reactors. But, Minister, what is in transport and this innovation that is coming, which we see is happening mostly in Germany about the production of hydrogen, should lie down in Bulgaria as well. The document, for me personally, could have been more ambitious, but in the end, it's an inheritance. The good thing is, colleagues, that by March 15th the document must be approved and we must immediately this year, in order not to get zero, we must immediately, as you said yesterday, that you are ready to start the measures for the absorption of these funds, which are really extremely important for the overall restructuring of the Bulgarian economy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u172	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, first of all, my congratulations that you have made a commitment to the Commission yesterday to talk about irrigation as such. I would be delighted to invite you to the Committee on Agriculture to talk on this subject, because agriculture, especially in the last few weeks, and also in the next few months, will become more and more up-to-date from the point of view of citizens' national and food security. I'll allow myself two comments on the Plan. First of all, I sincerely regret that the part of........ is not changed, because in terms of the first component............................ the most elegant word I can use is a lack of ambition. This part can achieve much, but unfortunately, what is proposed lacks ambition. Secondly, I have a doubt that the vast majority of the funds that are for investment in agricultural holdings will have its effect. Therefore, I would especially pay attention to you not only the part of....... but also to the overall part of the Plan, with regard to the management and control system, which, unfortunately, is not yet public and we cannot discuss it, but it is also extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u174	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? I won't. From the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection? Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u175	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! We need to make it clear that we are commenting on a version of the Plan, published October last year, with some adjustments that we are getting from different channels, ways, we are thinking about the speeches of different ministers, in a piece, and we are guessing. What's the big deal about this plan? We didn't understand! We don't want to think things that have been said by other colleagues. You probably have some other reasons to hide this plan, but anyway, we focused today on energy issues, because there is a problem, but there is an impact on every sector and it is very important that we get our opinions on the outside of this plan. We ourselves as MPs also obtain these opinions from outside, but there is no way that this will happen, as long as we have nothing to sit on and comment on in black and white. We have some part of it. What is key is that there are affected regions along the planning. The same ambiguity that lies within us, although we are in the National Assembly, there is in regions, there is also in the municipalities of the mayors, especially those affected, as we have commented today in the issues. I use the opportunity and the time to express an opinion to ask you, even if it has not ended everything you do under the Plan, to provide it to us as it is, as far as you are. Give it to the groups, because we have our ideas too, we have something to say. In the name of doing the work together, I'm sure the other groups have what will be useful for you, too, and perhaps it won't have to be returned again, reformulated and with dozens of pages of remarks. I do not want to take the liberty of giving advice, perhaps it is none of my business, but the way in which you communicate from the executive power with us raises doubts that may be unnecessary at some of the moments and create tensions in the work that the Bulgarian society currently needs neither to look nor to experience on its back in any way. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Mr. Tsonev, please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u177	My procedure, Madam President, is a personal explanation I waited for the relationship, so in the end. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I made it very clear: when we have collected data, we provide them here in some files and send them to the Prime Minister, to you too. But we said: we will wait for the adoption of the Plan and the realization of the projects so that we are not naked. At this point, we merely issued a warning, in a way that is well-meaning to make it clear that we are following this process. When I said about fixation, our fixation is actually on this, from the first day we have done it to remove the behind-the-scenes from the Bulgarian politics, behind-the-scenes in the face of this person and the circle around him. You assure us that this is not true, we believe you, okay, but we check every day every action and when we have doubts here, from the stands. As colleagues have requested the Plan, I would also like to ask you: send it through the President of the National Assembly as soon as possible today, tomorrow, you have all the correspondence. I'll tell you why. You know that our party has serious contacts in the European Commission. We have not allowed ourselves to request it from there so that we do not discredit Bulgaria, because we will have to say why we want it from them and not from you! Be so kind as to send us the Plan, the correspondence you find well that we need to know of all the groups, so that we can really argue, and not in this way to talk. And the last thing I want to say in 10 seconds. From the relationship of the Rule of Law Plan, I expected you to say this as well: did you notice that the DPS parliamentary group has introduced the most initiatives on the rule of law for both passports and inhouse orders, and on the money jeep, and most importantly the Constitutional Project, which meets European requirements because of the European requirements on the rule of law we have complied with absolutely everyone. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I'm calling a break 30 minutes to 12.10. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u179	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Moving on to the next item on the agenda of the day: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO REPEAT A DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 7 JANUARY 2022 ON ACCESS TO THE BUILDINGS OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION IN AN EMPLOYMENT ENTIRE. A report has been prepared by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the Draft Decision. Is there a representative of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in this House to brief us on the report? Here you go, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u180	ARCHIVED by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on Draft Decision repealing the decision of the National Assembly of 7 January 2022 on access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation, No 47-254-02-6, submitted by Petar Nikolaev Petrov and a group of MPs on 14 January 2022. At its regular meeting on 26 January 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed Draft Decision repealing the National Assembly Decision of 7 January 2022 on access to the National Assembly buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation, No 47-254-02-6, submitted by Petar Nikolaev Petrov and a group of MPs on 14 January 2022. On behalf of the importer The draft decision was presented by the National Representative Elena Guncheva, who pointed out that the draft decision proposed the lifting of the adopted access rules in an exceptional epidemic situation. The reasons for the draft decision note that the Decision was adopted in plenary after it was examined by the committees in violation of the rules of procedure and that the debates continued for a whole day testify to disagreement and a lack of uniform position among the Members of the National Assembly regarding the conditions for access to the buildings of the National Assembly. Mrs. Guncheva added that the adopted rules for access to the National Assembly's buildings have received a wide public response and added that they are ineffective and do not provide more security for the health of the National Assembly's representatives and employees. In the discussion of the draft decision took part the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov, Petar Petrov, Krum Zarkov and Miroslav Ivanov. National Representative Petar Petrov noted that the restriction of access to buildings after presentation of a document for vaccination, disease or negative test does not achieve the intended effect and vaccination does not fulfil its protective function. Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Mihaylov said that from the parliamentary group of the National Assembly there is such a people. They will support the draft decision as the chosen approach for adopting a decision limiting access to the buildings of the National Assembly is incorrect and the content of the National Assembly Decision of 7 January 2022 is incorrect. Mr. Zarkov disagreed with the opinion of the importers on the inefficiency of the agreed access conditions, noting that the failure to comply with the rules adopted by the National Assembly's Decision on access to emergency epidemic conditions reveals the attitude of the parliamentary groups to the acts of the National Assembly. National Representative Miroslav Ivanov said that with the adoption of conditions for access to buildings in a declared epidemic situation, the National Assembly sends a message to the public and declares that the MPs are equal to the citizens and apply the same rules for access to public buildings as they apply to all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the debates, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 3 votes for the National Assembly, 7 votes against the National Assembly and 2 votes abstentions did not adopt the draft decision repealing the Decision of the National Assembly of 7 January 2022 on access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation, No 47-254-02-6, submitted by Petar Nikolaev Petrov and a group of MPs on 14 January 2022, and proposed that the National Assembly reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u182	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u183	I'm opening the discussion on the Project. Kostadin Kostadinov, come in. Toshko Yordanov is also listed for speech. And Dr. Simidchiev is also listed for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The decision we need to make is actually something that needs to synchronise the regime for access to people in the National Assembly, with the regime which is actually already met by all public offices, premises throughout the country. You know that since yesterday, the requirement for asking for a green certificate has been officially dropped, and by 20 March or 20 March at the latest, after 9 days, it must also be dropped for workers. It is obvious that in this case the National Assembly is behind by one day, nothing fatal in this. A few weeks ago, we were talking about the green certificate going down in history, we'd forget it, we wouldn't even go back in time. There is no point in even commenting on how much we all see the situation at the moment. We see that somehow strangely, with the burning of a very unpleasant military conflict not far from the Bulgarian borders, all of a sudden all of the apocalyptic news that flooded us every morning and every night from the television stations gave way to other apocalyptic news and it turned out that the whole story or rather hysteria with the so-called pandemic began to be forgotten very quickly. That is, after this decision that we have to make today, we will liquidate anachronism and send in history an act of the National Assembly, which, by the way, was absolutely meaningless. Given that there were people who in this Chamber of this National Assembly with vaccines, and not one and not two, but three, were sick again, and in the meantime, there was an opportunity to spread the mythical contagion, I think there is no point in who knows how many further arguments. The most logical decision at the moment, and without much discussion, because I think that we are intelligent enough people here to understand the situation at the moment, is simply to make a decision to cancel the previous act of the National Assembly and to start dealing with really very important and serious things that stand before us both before the National Assembly and before the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u185	Thank you. Are there any lines to Kostadin Kostadinov? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, how can I put this, my statement is a form of request to you, and I wanted to be the first, but it was the second, which is not to happen what we were just looking at. If we can refrain from politicizing the subject, from long speeches. We've told each other everything about the green certificate. I simply suggest that if anyone has any concrete proposal, say it and just move on to a vote, instead of turning the subject again into a political chatter, just like that, about sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u187	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Yordanov's statement? I won't. Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the proposal. What I wanted to say, however, is a little different and is related to a certain process of making this decision. The Parliamentary Committee on Health has no distribution of this decision to it, and this is a medical issue. We have spoken from the beginning that this is a medical issue that should not be politicized, unfortunately, in a statement earlier the issue is again politicized. This is not a mythical disease, and it killed 39 thousand people directly in Bulgaria and about 60 thousand as co-operative victims. This is a problem that could have been significantly overcome if we had a medical approach to the subject and not a politicised approach to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u189	Thank you, Doctor. Any lines to Dr. Simidchiev? I can't see. Other statements "Iva Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u190	My fellow Members, I will be very brief. Indeed, we have spoken this subject many times, we have told each other everything. The authority, which is competent by law to introduce anti-epidemic measures, has already lifted its requirement for the green certificate, has changed the rules of 9 March, so I think the National Assembly should enter into this framework and start following the Health and Act Act of the Minister of Health. I only make legal and technical amendments to the draft decision. I propose that his name be in line with the decision we adopted in the National Assembly for the introduction of the green certificate and for the name to become: Decision repealing Decision on access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation adopted by the National Assembly on 7 January 2022 Here I individualize the very decision we want to cancel, and then I suggest: I'm sorry. I'm 1. Cancels the decision on access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation adopted by the National Assembly on 7 January 2022. 2. The Decision shall enter into force on 14 March 2022 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in I propose that it be March 14th, as today is coming to an end or at least the people who have asked to enter the National Assembly have entered, followed the appropriate procedure. In order that there are no problems with the interpretation when the decision of the National Assembly comes into force, is it a legal act, is it not a legal act, we will wait for the promulgation and the end of three days after the promulgation. Therefore, I suggest that we clearly say that the second point enters on Monday 14 March, and since then the rules will no longer apply to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Replices to Eva Miteva? I won't. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would fully join the words of Mr. Yordanov and Mrs. Miteva that too many things have already been said about the problem of green certificate and this infection, and because it seems that this curtain will finally fall and cover many truths and untruths that have been said in the National Assembly and in our entire society. In this regard, I can now confirm that I support some of the issues that a party has raised and their request to make a special Commission. Then we answered that this is not necessary, as the Health Commission will consider, as Dr. Simidchiev said, from a purely medical point of view, the problems and from a purely medical point of view here Mrs. Miteva urged us not to continue politicizing the issue. However, I would like to remind all my colleagues that such a situation can come at any next moment and every subsequent year to the surface of the Earth. When I read the first analysis two years ago about the COVID-19, about the consequences that will occur in the world, what serious scientists presented as a problem is not the power and tragedy of this infection. From the very beginning, the World Health Organization declared this infection not particularly dangerous. The mistakes that were made were made in separate parts of the world and in a different way, and in Bulgaria these errors were also amplified, politicized, diverted the normal human existence of whole generations in Bulgaria. This must not be forgotten by splitting up now with the green certificate, separating from the fears of the Kovid pandemic gradually, and in our souls this will not easily happen. Keep in mind that when you're walking down Sofia streets, you still see people in their cars wearing masks. We see people standing 20 centimeters apart walking around in masks, which has absolutely no epidemic significance, and I dare say it quite responsibly and stand by my words that even some used gloves before, which also does not matter. My appeal to you, colleagues, is: let us learn from our own mistakes which we have made in these two years, let us not introduce any more common infection................. by plague and ebola................ let us not issue orders such as regulations that surrounded the Bulgarian resort cities, the Bulgarian cities and created chaos among the people...................... In this regard, the Political Party BSP had the most reasonable approach from the outset and it was always about careful assessment in every respect of this infection. By breaking up with her, wishing that if such circumstances occur again, we would be at the height of our political role, not the desire to fulfill one or another dream, as the diversion in the political aspect of the importance of this infection has given into the hands of a party the desire to control a political situation. But that didn't happen. This is a very harsh lesson for all who want to politicize this issue. Don't let this happen again! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u193	Thank you, Professor. Are there any lines to Georgi Mihailov? Here you go, Mr. Ganev. Happy birthday, Mr. Ganev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u194	Mr. Chairman! Professor Mihailov, you are one of the few really responsible political persons who are at the same time and medically I was going to say worker, but you are more than a professor, in this science, who spoke out of this tribune things that no one else dares to say about the coronavirus. You have produced data, statistics that delicts people like Mr. Simidchiev with his data on colossal and apocalyptic data, delicts the information that confirmed and constantly spoke the Chairman of the Health Commission, and at the same time I would say very much, but it is not pleasing to you, you forget the fact that when we proposed that a Temporary Commission should be made to investigate all the circumstances, all the funds spent by GERB and their partners from IMRO-BNS, you refused with the presumption, and after you also confirmed the President of the Health Commission in question that this would be done in the Commission in question. You start immediately and you will discuss all the circumstances where they belong. I will ask both you and the President of the Commission in question from this tribune and not to comment on this point again, to say: this is what we discussed, here we have unraveled, here we have come to an opinion that GERB have done and have stolen...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u195	Mr. Ganev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u196	...or they didn't, and at the same time, we did what we were talking about. Because none of this has been done by you, and especially by the President of the Commission, because it depends on him and he has developed the theories of how there is no need, but otherwise we will make a change and change the new, we will do and investigate GERB. You didn't investigate, and you didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u197	The weather, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u198	You are now explaining that you are the bearers of the new one, no, you have done nothing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u199	We almost didn't politicize the debate. [[Laughter]] Here you are, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u200	Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Professor Mihailov, I am using my right to reply to you and to thank you for the opportunity you gave Mr. Ganev to appear again. A little bit of history. Yesterday we spoke with the chairman of the parliamentary group Dr. Kostadinov and I only took one line to him and said: Dr. Kostadinov, you are a historian, you know that history will judge us all for all our words, even from this tribune, where everyone has the right to speak what they think. Unlike politicians who have the right to wake up in the morning with an idea of how to make a good impression on their constituents, doctors and researchers have to read data, comply with results in many different studios and then judge and speak. I believe there have been many political speeches from this tribune. I don't allow myself to point a finger at anyone, and that's my personal decision. You've just seen how some people like to point fingers, although I don't understand what you're doing. So, Professor Mihailov, I support a lot of your words, but in a series of debates we have discussed many times data and very often the common positions of the Coalition Council in health, on which we have made our decisions, have stepped precisely on these scientific data that have just been depreciated from this tribune. Personally, I hope that there will be no more such waves, after which 39 thousand Bulgarian citizens will die and several tens of thousands more will be disabled, as Dr. Simidchiev said. And I am sure that every single person in this room, when they need good medical advice, will not consult with Mr. Ganev, who I respect, but will go to a certified doctor to get the right opinion. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u201	Thank you. Third line to Georgi Mihailov from Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u202	Mr. Mihailov, both you and the man who spoke earlier, said he should not be politicized, and the person who replicated you just said that a lot of political speeches were made from this tribune. And what else would be the speeches of this tribune other than political?! Is this a wine house or some kind of union?! This is the National Assembly. The decisions taken here are political and this is the most political body in the country. This is the emancipation of the political life of the country. So, please, very much, let us not get into a subject where we talk about good experts, bad politicians, because I will remind you that the solutions to the resolution of the so-called kinetic crisis were all up to one political one. In your class, you know that there was no and still there was no consensus on what the measures were supposed to be, and the decisions were political from the very beginning to the very end of this whole psychopandemia. We will now also make a political decision. From 13 March 2020, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 13 March 2020 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). With the introduction of the state of emergency because of a sick grandmother in Pleven, which served to close all areas of the state and district centres, until today, with which I hope we will end all this psychopandemia, the decisions have been political for better or for worse. There's no point in commenting on it anymore. The question is clear to all of us, but don't run away from the subject and twist the question that this is where the question is politicized. Well, unfortunately, it's politicizing. True. If it were left in the hands of the true specialists of your organization, I say it with great respect to your community, I can bet that none of what happened would have happened, nor would there have been all this psychoharassment on the society, nor would there be all this vacanalia in the Bulgarian hospitals, which came precisely because of the panic in the Bulgarian society. Because the people in our health care system aren't responsible for those who forced them to work as if they were in martial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u203	Thank you. Professor, I'd like you to come in and get your coat. Is there anyone else I can write them down? [[Relations from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] I won't, but I'll ask anyway. [[Heckling]] There's no one else on record.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here Prof. Tonev called you Dr. Kostadinov. This practice is a little misguided from a purely practical point of view, but one thing is true is that there are many doctors, but there are few doctors in this world, Mr. Kostadinov. Because now you're putting the issue in a very flexibilly way, let's call it. Your colleague this morning used 40 times the word "diplomatically" here, "diplomatically." And now I'm gonna try to be very diplomatic. The truth is that we did not allow it in the National Assembly, in this configuration, as it has been admitted in previous.....................two years ago....................................................................... Because the establishment of such a committee, I tell you this as a doctor, you give doctors the right to say what is happening, to become a Yakubian commission that will drive and hang, and in it will be people who do not understand anything about this infection and would be a rude political mistake because you are talking about political mistakes. Otherwise, I can tell you that we fully joined during the election campaign in April 2021 to the opinion of a purely professional body. I will quote it again here for the displeasure of someone in this House, the National Centre for Public Health, who really said that by April 2021, in terms of a species, the pandemic was actually made mostly political, and it was wrong decisions. In this regard, we have no differences, but in order not to continue this, Mr. Kostadinov, we united around the idea of not politicizing this issue. This was our idea, this was our action, and for this reason we will now support the end of this decision so that we can go forward and take for ourselves the lessons of all that has happened in these two years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u205	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any other speeches? Peter Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I promise I'll be brief. First of all, I will respect the call of my fellow Members not to politicise the speeches. Next, so I don't get a nickname for using the word "diplomacy," I will make a constructive proposal. Since colleagues made an editorial amendment to the decision to enter into force on Monday 14 March 2022, I will ask you, honourable Members, on Monday 14 March 2022, 39 years ago a person appeared in this world, who, by one or another, is part of the Bulgarian policy at present, sits in this tribune and asks you to make a decision that will correct the mistake that we made on 7 January 2022. So please, guys, give me a nice birthday present. Let us adopt this decision today and enter the Bulgarian Parliament freely on Monday. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u207	Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm calling off the discussion. My fellow Members, first of all, I am putting to the vote the editorial amendments proposed by Iva Miteva. I say we vote 'em enbloc. I'll read them carefully. The name of the Decision shall be amended as follows:? Decision repealing the Decision on Access to the National Assembly Buildings in the event of an emergency epidemic situation adopted by the National Assembly on 7 January 2022? This will change the name. Paragraph 1 of the text of the Draft Decision will be repealed. It's identical. In the operative part of the Decision, the existing text becomes t. 1 and is amended as follows: The text here is:.. Cancels fully accepted................................................................................................................ is We continue with: The decision on access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the event of an emergency epidemic situation adopted by the National Assembly on 7 January 2022. A new t. is created. 2: The Decision shall enter into force on 14 March 2022. These are Eva Miteva's proposals. Let's move on to the vote. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u208	[[We continue to change through an Internet platform for video conference]] : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u209	They voted 167 Members of Parliament in the Chamber and 1 online " 168" total: 161 and 1 online " 162" total, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the main text in line with the amendments adopted. I'm going to read it from.. to, with the editorial amendments adopted: Project! DECISION repealing the Decision on access to the National Assembly buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation adopted by the National Assembly on 7 January 2022 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Cancels the decision on access to the National Assembly's buildings in the event of an exceptional epidemic situation adopted by the National Assembly on 7 January 2022. 2. The Decision shall enter into force on 14 March 2022 and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u210	[[We continue to change through an Internet platform for video conference]] : For.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u211	Vote 160 MPs in the House and 1 online.. total 161: for 156 and 1 online................................................................................................................. The motion is accepted. With this and this item on the agenda is exhausted. We're moving on to parliamentary control. My fellow Members, I'm giving you 10 minutes off, and then we'll start with parliamentary control. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u212	Colleagues, we'll start with parliamentary control. I will first inform you of the written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 8 March to 10 March 2022: - written answers from Minister Asena Serbenova to two questions from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; to two questions from the National Representative Iskra Mihaylova; one question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov and the National Representative Adlen Shevked; - written answer from Minister Atanas Atanasov of the National Representative Tsveta Galunova; written answers from Minister Boyko Rashkov to a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; one question from the National Representative Elisaveta Belobradova; - written answers from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov to a question from the People's Representative Nikolay Radulov; one question from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadzhov on a request from the National Representative Michal Kambarev; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva and Alexander Dunchev; - written answer from Minister Nadezhda Yordanova to questions from the MPs Ekaterina Zaharieva and MP Anna Alexandrova; - written answer from Minister Teodora Gencovska to a question from the MP Elisaveta Belobradova; - written answer from Minister Nikolay Subev to a question from the National Representative Maya Dimitrova. We're continuing with parliamentary control. First we will start with Minister Sandov, who is in the Chamber, and wait for the other ministers to appear.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u213	Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev should have started. How could such a thing!?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u214	Yeah, he posted a notice that he had to be late. We'll start with Minister Sandov. The issue is from the National Representative Evgenia Alexieva about the investment intention of a farm for ovarchs "Insecto" AD, for internal reconstruction and change of the purpose of a production-administrative building in a pilot insect farm in the village of Lozen, Sofia Municipality. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u215	Thank you, Madam President? Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Environment and Water! I'd like to start with a few facts before I ask my question. On October 23, last year, hundreds of residents of the largest village in Bulgaria Lozen protested plans to move a farm for larvae of the company "Insecto" in the village. It is currently located in the town of Elin Pelin, after protests of the local population and followed the actions of the Municipality it was closed. The investor is planning to build an insect farm and larvae in the village of Lozen for annual production of 500 tonnes of protein and 130 tonnes of insect oil. The production process of this farm is linked to the separation of an enormous amount of unpleasant smell. Near the site there are houses, shops and restaurants. Lozen City Hall and the local population have not been notified of the construction of the facility. No public discussion has been conducted and no environmental impact assessment documents have been issued to build this farm. For the past two years, RIEW.. Sofia has been repeatedly asked by citizens of Elin Pelin for the same production of this same farm of... Insecto......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The residents of Lozen fear for their health, fear for the quality of life, that it will be deteriorated, fear for their jobs in the region, for their homes, for their children. The Lozens Development Association addresses all institutions that are relevant to the problem by demanding verification of the legality of the procedure and tracking of the overall information to be familiar with the villagers. A petition of 4,000 residents of the village of Lozen against the activities of the insect farm has been gathered, and I regret to delay the time, but the issue is very important. I would like to say that in response to this public discontent of the residents of Lozen Minister Litchev, who was a minister of the ministry, last year resumed the proceedings for issuing an opinion on the activities of the company. The decision was appealed by the company investor in the Supreme Administrative Court and the case was scheduled for 23 March this year. I'd like to ask you, Minister, will you stand behind the demands of the residents of Lozen and this larvae farm not be built near the settlement because it is the only way to preserve the ecological appearance and clean air of the village? What actions have you taken, are you familiar with this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u216	Thanks for asking. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u217	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexieva, I am familiar with this case, and I have also visited the place for which this intention is envisaged. The activity of producing protein from insect larvae is, by the way, highly innovative and environmentally friendly activity. Bulgaria has the chance to be one of the world countries leaders of the investor's activities. I say this because, at the moment, similar proceedings are under way in a number of countries. This type of production is embedded in the priority programme for the development of the European Union as one of the most sparing and environmentally friendly methods for the production of animal proteins. Each ton of this protein saves five tons of ocean fish and hundreds of acres of forest that can be cut down to become soy plantations that happen in South America. Protein is an extremely good additive for feed and is approved for use on livestock farms. This is a strategically important product and can provide additional provision for local farms, especially in the present times of uncertainty. The investor's plans for the current building are for a small demonstration center in which to demonstrate working technology. The investor is in the process of planning full-scale production in another region of Bulgaria, which should start within two years. You claim that this type of production emits huge amounts of unpleasant smells. We have carried out similar checks in Elin Pelin, I say we, as an institution of the Ministry of Environment and Water, jointly with the Directorates of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, of the Regional Health Inspection, of the Sofia Municipality, but at this stage I have not found any evidence of such a thing or does not exist in the protocols which have been made by these checks. By the way, I would like to share with you that at the last council, the informal council of the ministers of the environment, which was held in Amiens, a site visit that is traditionally made on such a farm, of a similar company, the French Minister of Environment and Water said in France, where the French Minister of Environment and Water took me and my colleagues to show a much larger one, by the way, about 20 times larger than the one we are currently commenting on, next to the city of Amien, and I am aware that other such farms are envisaged and are being built or already built in Poland, the Netherlands, the United States of America, as well as in the heart of London in the vicinity of business centres and residential buildings. In your expo before the question, you mention that the farm in Elin Pelin is closed. I did a background check. It's not actually closed, it's functioning right now. The last check on the terrain was carried out by RIEW Sofia, on 2 November 2021. And what is found is that it establishes the presence of smells characteristic of the activities carried out locally inside the premises. The verification did not reveal the presence of odors characteristic of activities carried out outside the site. All measured emissions were within the regulatory requirements. The same results were found from each previous inspection of the Regional Inspection. The location of the planned site in Lozen, I also did my work, is about 800 meters from the nearest houses. This is the highway. [[M Minister Sandov points to a map of the location of the different sites]] , this is the site, this is the industrial zone of one of the two industrial zones of Lozen. This is the village of Lozen, really the largest settlement. Production itself represents a small scale, as I told you, demonstrationally. Technology that is consistent shall be used. The investor used and executed all the procedures required by law. By the way, because you are talking about the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water, such procedures have been made by the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety, Regional Health Inspections, Sofia Municipality and each one of them has these prescriptions. That's all I can say. I don't see the risk you're referring to. And I'm going to graduate, and I've met the sociological survey of the people of the village of Lozen, and I really want to react to what they have as concerns. But with regard to this farm, the concerns are 30 times smaller than the concerns about redevelopment of the area. So I'd rather help with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u218	Thank you, Minister Sandov. Mrs. Alexieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u219	Thank you, Madam President! Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I don't just look at the village of Lozen, I live there, so I know very well where this farm will be positioned. I know very well what the fears and concerns of the people are, and I would like to say that many colleagues who, unfortunately, are not all currently in this Chamber, but many colleagues from quite political formations and parties attended the protest of the residents of Lozen, then took positions on how they would not allow such a thing to happen. How they said that this thing was unacceptable to happen in the most ecological village in Sofia Municipality and how they would make their proposals that this legislative thing would not happen. Me and my colleagues from the GERB-SDS parliamentary group made such proposals, especially for the Ordinance, which sets criteria and an assessment of the risks to human health, including determining the distances from settlements precisely for productions with intense smells. Unfortunately, the opinion of the Ministry of Health does not support this initiative and this proposal. They say they're going to make some comprehensive concept that I hope this thing will be soon, because I know that you as a minister also support this vision of mine, and I think that citizens' health is a national priority. So not just to talk about biodiversity and how sparing this production is and how there are no smells. Once they have a large-scale production that they want to plan elsewhere, let's do it now. Because you said you were on the spot, but there is no production in this center right now, or at least it shouldn't be done because there's a case going on right now. The smells are measured with what equipment, because I, as far as I know, cannot measure them with equipment. There's no way to prove that right now. I don't know why RIEW, why RZI, why BABBH and all the other institutions didn't prescribe to do EIA? Why has not the impact of human health been evaluated? Why is there no public discussion? Why hasn't the public been notified in any way about this thing? I want to give you the electronic signature of all the people who have signed against it. There are interviews taken by 162 people from Elin Pelin who claim to have such smells. I really count on you as Minister of Environment and Water that you will protect people and human health, which, again, I say, is a national priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u221	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexieva, yes, I have really put myself high in the priorities of protecting human health and the environment, including intense smells. These are measured by gas analysers. In Bulgaria there is not much equipment, but there is some equipment and it is used in certain situations. There are some enterprises that have such cases, for example in Nova Zagora or in the village of Trud and so on, but there are other types of proceedings. Specifically, because I visited this enterprise before I was a minister because of the concerns of the people of Lozen, I want to assure you that the production base itself represents a huge building in which there is a huge hall in which there is another room inside. So that's three after each other to produce these larvae. This isn't about some process that causes decay or fermentation or something. The company intends to work only with waste material from beer factories, not household waste, food waste or anything else. And once again, the intention and scale that I saw here and that I saw in Amiens are quite different. This is really about a demonstration site, not a large enterprise. If Bulgaria wants to develop in terms of eco-innovation, we need such enterprises. And as the global competition is really very high right now, I mentioned this firm in France, I mentioned a few more. They even have government funding to do this kind of thing, and this isn't about that kind of thing. As for the distance, yes, it is a fact that the first government of GERB repealed Ordinance No 7 on Distances. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] I will do what is necessary to introduce such a regulation, only that it is to the Ministry of Health. So what I can do is to propose to my colleagues at the Ministry of Health that such a regulation be developed and put into effect again. But it seems to me that the question is being overexposed, it seems to me that the intention is that new building blocks close to the industrial zone will be sold at a higher price or something, promising that there will be absolutely no...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u222	The weather, Mr. Sandov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u223	...industrial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u224	Thank you. This exhausted the participation of Borislav Sandov in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to Mr. Asen Vassilev, Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance. There is a question by Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva about a drastic discrepancy in the financial data on the export of valuable hides with hair from a register to the Commission for Trade and Development of the United Nations and the data declared by the securities producers in Bulgaria, published in the Trade Register for 2017 and 2018. Mrs. Stratieva, you're welcome to develop your question. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] That's how control works. It's about Mr. Vassilev. We have a question for Mr. Vassilev and it's the first one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u225	She's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u226	There's no MP with the questioning. The next is a question from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov and the National Representative Toma Bikov on written agreements between the administrative punishing authority under art. 231 of the Customs Act. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Vassilev, we all know that the Customs Agency is subject to the Ministry of Finance, we know the important role of the Customs Agency in the charge of the treasury and the implementation of customs control. And that is why we have asked you a specific question as to whether it is common practice to conclude written agreements between the administrative punishing authority. 231, and the release of precautionary measures on decrees issued by the Agency? In particular, our question is that we have information about such an agreement concluded by the Director of the Office of Customs and Commercial Operator.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. BGN, which through such an agreement were raised, and whether there was paid to the Company about 200 thousand. BGN, part of the agreement, further after the removal of the lien? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u228	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, to answer the question. I will ask the MPs who have questions about parliamentary control of yesterday's order of control to enter the Chamber, because there are situations where I ask the question and there is no representative to ask. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u229	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. It's a really clear question. From the information provided by the customs authorities, the agreement has been concluded once the Terminal Operator has won in court and what the Customs say is that there is a practice, in the arguments presented in customs administration, not to appeal judgments once, given by the court, where they are properly justified, given in accordance with material and procedural laws. In this case, the agreement with the Terminal Operator is signed on the occasion of eight penal decrees issued against the Company. The infringements were committed in September in the case of the placing of goods under an external Union transit procedure. On complaints by the Company in Devnya District Court, the court has annulled all these criminal decrees by the customs authorities, i.e. the court ruled before the signing of the agreement. On the basis of all the evidence collected in the proceedings, the court has declared the unlawfulness of the criminal decrees of the customs authorities of the Member States because they are issued against a person who cannot be the subject of a customs infringement, even less customs fraud, as it concerns a direct customs representative under a transit procedure acting on the instructions of the consignee and the owner of the goods and only on the basis of the accompanying documents. So this is the information I've been fed by Customs. There was a ruling of the court on these agreements, they did not appeal them and they concluded this agreement, which you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u230	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u231	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! One clarification. First of all, there is a judgment, but it is at first instance. We know that there is an opportunity for an appeal in Bulgaria and for going to a second instance. I do not understand this principle of the customs, which is clearly some common practice in which, having a first instance judgment, they accept this judgment and no longer engage in, cover the costs of the one with whom they are sued and take all the blame. In my opinion, if such a principle exists in the Customs, it is not only right for this case, but in principle. Since there is some action by the customs officers, which the other side disputes in court, the Customs must protect the interest of the state rather than its own interest and the lawyers of the customs office to make every effort to win this case, because, since there is some penalty imposed, the Customs have assumed that there has been some infringement, even more so when it comes to 32 million, which is a lot. There's obviously a cargo that's quite large, it's not about any small money, it's about a cost of 200,000. lv. It's just that all of this goes down the drain and they say to me, "If that's how the court in Devnya decides, because that's where it's decided and the judge in Devnya has decreed this, we will neither go to second instance nor do anything or do anything." We're putting up the stand, 200 grand we give the firm, and we're done. For me, this question remains unanswered. And to finally tell you, if the Customs have such a principle, I hope you'll tell them to give it up so there won't be any other cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u232	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u233	Mr. Bikov, in order to be specific, there is a practice not to appeal judgments where they are correct and justified, given in accordance with material and procedural laws. When the court tells you that the person you are suing, I quote: So, in my opinion, the decision of the customs office in this case is absolutely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev concerning the practice of Bulgarian financial institutions and the National Revenue Agency to require information from Bulgarian companies and citizens for the purposes of the Federal Revenue Service of the United States of America. Mr. Ganev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u235	Madam President! Mr. Minister, the tax law on foreign accounts adopted by the US Congress has been in force since 1 July 2014. Its aim is to establish, deter and prevent cases of tax evasion by American citizens or residents who directly or indirectly invest outside the United States through foreign financial institutes. The Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America have reached an intergovernmental agreement in principle "Model 1B," according to which all Bulgarian financial institutions must identify US taxpayers among their customers. Every Bulgarian company and citizen holding a bank account are obliged to declare or deny belonging to the US revenue control system. Bulgaria voluntarily deprives itself of financial sovereignty in favor of the United States and loses a specific advantage in attracting US companies that wish to transfer their business under better financial or tax conditions with us in this version that currently exists. According to the regulations, Bulgarian banks are registered on the official web portal of the Federal Revenue Service of the United States as financial institutions that comply with US laws and even receive an identification number. In view of the above, please answer the following question: has the Federal Revenue Service been provided with regular information about Bulgarian citizens and companies investing outside Bulgaria. And in this regard: why the signed agreement is not a two-way agreement and the Bulgarian Revenue Agency cannot effectively use the resources of the American one, as US banks are registered on a report to BNB and have received an identification number in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u237	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. This is about information about American citizens who have accounts in Bulgaria's territory in Bulgarian banks. The model of the agreement that has been concluded is model 1-B on your issue and not on 1-A. The reason it wasn't signed in model 1A is because the US refused to conclude model 1-A because they said that data protection in our country is not at the necessary level. Given the NRA data leak a few years ago, I don't think, unfortunately, that at this point was an incorrect finding. It is being worked on in order for the NRA to be fully integrated back into all information exchange systems, as access to systems where we have access by right was also very limited. On the question: how many US banks are registered on a report to BNB and received information numbers in Bulgaria? Under this agreement, no bank should receive such a number and this agreement does not provide for the registration of US banks in Bulgaria. Are there any American banks in Bulgaria? Honestly, I don't know, but the right person to answer you is BNB's governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u238	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ganev, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. [[Reply by National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] There isn't one. Let's move on to the next question. Question from the National Representative Nikolina Angelkova on financial measures to support the natural and legal persons employed in the sector "Tourism." Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u239	Madam President, Members of Parliament, Deputy Prime Ministers! Tourism is one of the key sectors for the Bulgarian economy, which before the pandemic of COVID-19 formed between 12 and 14% of the country's gross domestic product and the tourism-related activities provided employment of more than 11% of the employees in Bulgaria. This is one of the most damaged sectors of the continuing pandemic of COVID-19 and the consequences of the global pollution crisis and its recovery is expected at the end of 2023 " 2024," according to data from the World Tourism Organisation. And now because of the war between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, the consequences for the sector will be disastrous. Summer season is knocking on the door. However, reservations have stopped, workers in the sector do not know whether they will be able to meet foreign tourists at all and from which countries. Every day the prices of goods and services in Bulgaria grow because of the galloping inflation that BNB expects to continue to accelerate in the coming months. Fuel prices are also increasing steadily, with petrol prices expected to be above BGN 3.50 by the end of March. for a liter. The price of gas is about 120 BGN and is expected to reach 200 by 1 April and the price of electricity for today is 575 BGN. for megawatt hours. The tourism sector not only suffers losses but is facing the edge of survival and has no time for more wrong decisions. And while hoteliers, restaurants, concessionaires and tour operators are doing the impossible to survive, and for recovery at the moment it is even difficult for them to think, the government does not seem to understand the importance of the sector to the economy of the country. This is apparent from the lack of specific measures and activities to assist it and to apply not only until 30 June as provided for in the budget. Tourism is put to the test every day, and not only by the difficult environment of work, but also by the unknown that currently exists in the sector and by the lack of planning. The CoVID-19 Pandemia continues, only a few hundred kilometers away from us there is war and employers, workers and employees from the sector. [[the President signals that time has run out]] They need urgent support now, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, when some of them may have gone bankrupt due to the government's untimely decisions. Perhaps you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have long-term, sustainable and predictable measures for the tourism sector, which you will now inform us about. Otherwise, support for this sector means only word support, and they are found in some social experiment and perhaps a new season of "survivor." In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: what measures has the Ministry of Finance taken to assist the natural and legal persons employed in the sector of "Tourism" taking into account the consequences of the war between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, as well as the continuing pandemic of COVID-19? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. Mr. Vassilev, you have the opportunity to answer the question asked, which is a little more asking because it is related to a common policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u241	Thank you for asking Mrs. Angelkova. I think she made about 200 such inquiries to the Ministry of Tourism, which was answered in writing. If you'd like, I can read the written answer they gave me from the Ministry of Tourism. It basically states, Mrs. Angelkova, that, as you know, the measure 60/40 has 410 million by the end of June. In addition, the Ministry of Tourism envisioned 20 million under the budget programme "Development of national tourist advertising and international co-operation" of 18 million for national tourist advertising, 25 million for subsidies to tour operators using the air carriers of about 35 euros, aid of around 10 million. BGN, which is related to additional anti-coil measures. So no one neglects the sector. The sector is extremely well funded by various and different programmes, which the Ministry of Tourism is developing and has not refused funding to the sector at the moment. As you know, this year most likely the situation will be complicated due to the war. It will be complicated to a certain extent because Russian and Ukrainian citizens will not come for obvious reasons, but they were still a relatively small part, were, I think, 250 000 from around 7 million visits of foreigners to Bulgaria in recent years. But being close to a military conflict, it also creates uncertainty in other tourists. So there we can expect possible tourists from Romania, as happened last year in the season. And to that end, as far as I know, the Ministry of Tourism is reformating both advertising markets and advertising ways so that it can attract tourists who would benefit from our Black Sea coast if we were to talk about the summer season in such a severe geopolitical situation and uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u242	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Angelkova, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u243	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, but he does not meet my expectations at all. I read very well what the Minister of Tourism answers to me. Therefore, I have explicitly asked the question to you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. My question to you and the exhibition relates to this: what is envisaged for the sector after 30 June? In fact, in 2019, international tourists were more than 9 million 300 thousand, not 7 million, and total international tourists, who visited us in 2019 from the Russian Federation and Ukraine, by memory, were more than a million from both countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u244	I'm talking about last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u245	It is good that you explain what money there is for advertising, with the budget of the Ministry being 27 million, I do not know where these 28 came from just for advertising, but perhaps you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance know more than I do in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u246	Article 1, para. 5 of the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u247	There's the 25 million for 35 euros per seat, not for advertising...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u248	And the commercial.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u249	Please don't engage in a dialogue. I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u250	...but let's not get into this dialogue, because it's a good time for me. On the other hand, the funds that we voted for in the budget update at the Forty-Sixth National Assembly of 70 million. lv. On information from the sector, the 30 million for working capital has not yet reached the sector, nor the six million for tour operators, nor the four million for tour guides. It is very important for the tourism sector, when there is support, to be timely and to happen now, not generally and not with good wishes. In fact, I expected you to tell me what, because you are the Minister of Finance and you are responsible for the allocation of the state budget, at least you are making proposals. And I expect you to tell me: what will happen after 30 June, when the action of measure 60/40 is completed, it is key to the sector? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Will there be any provision for working capital at all? And I'm finishing up with the compensation for high electricity prices. Including in your management, i.e. coalition agreement, because government and government have not yet seen, it is written in the tourism anex that this is your key priority. There's no word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u251	Mrs. Angelkova, let's give Mr. Vasilev a chance in the back to clarify what you were saying earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u252	Now, a few things, the first of which is that the budget is voted in the National Assembly, is absolutely clear who gets how much money and this is the will of the Members of the National Assembly. From now on, whether something will be envisaged in the update again will decide the National Assembly. My personal opinion and my recommendation would be for the measure 60/40 to be completed on 30 June and not to be activated again unless there is a new wool. There are no prerequisites to activate this measure. It continues to work three months after the end of the epidemiological situation and the pandemic, as we know. At the moment, the incidence is much lower, the mortality is much lower. There are no restrictive measures, dramatic of the sector. Most likely, April, May and June will not have any restrictive measures if this epidemiological situation is maintained. So the 60/40 measure did its job. With regard to aid relating to support for high energy prices, they are not specific to the tourism sector, but to all businesses in the country and the tourism sector benefit, like all other businesses, from these measures. In terms of energy as a percentage of the costs of the tourism sector, it is not small, but it is certainly not the most energy-intensive sector in the economy. As for the tourist data, I commented on last year's data, of course, perhaps more representative, given that there was no horse, but given that we now have no air connections either to Russia or Ukraine, rather last year would be a clearer indicator of what we can expect in the summer tourist season, because last year we also had very limited air connections due to the coven pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u253	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We return to the inquiry by the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva concerning a drastic discrepancy in the financial data for the export of valuable hides with hair from the UNCTAD Register to the United Nations Trade and Development Commission. This is a register of the UN Trade and Development Commission relating to valuable furs with hair declared by the producers of such hides in Bulgaria, published in the Trade Register for 2017 and 2018. One remark to all MPs is a question because it contains specific data and is not based on policies, while the question asked by Mrs. Angelkova should have the form of a question. Here you go asking, you have five minutes to develop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Legal Directorate, we are made a lot of comments on how to address these questions, whether they are questions, whether they are questions, because they do not read the content of the questions or questions that we ask the ministers. We have called it asking because it covers more extensive information. Dear Mr. Vassilev, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our question is about the export of mink skins. According to the register of the United Nations Trade and Development Commission, exports of raw precious hides from Bulgaria in 2018 amounted to about 11 million. U.S. dollar. The amount is significant against the background of previous years' levels. For example, in 2017, the export of valuable furs by hair is almost 10 times smaller, namely about 1 million. U.S. dollar. This drastic difference raises the question: who implemented this export, provided that the main producer of raw valuable leather in the country in 2018. "Farmiro" Ltd. declared in its annual financial statement for 2018 sales revenues of only 3 thousand. BGN, while in the previous 2017 this revenue amounted to 171 thousand. BGN and in 2019 the revenues from the sale of the production are 11 thousand. lv. The non-compliances are also confirmed by a detailed reference to the NRA on the import and export values and quantities of goods of Chapter 43 of the Combined Nomenclature, and in particular for code 43011000, these are raw mink hides, whole, even without the heads, tails or legs. In view of the fact that both the NRA and the Customs Agency are subject to the Minister of Finance, I would like you to inform us: what is the quantity and value of the exported or sent to another country by the European Union of raw precious mink skins, code 43011000, in 2018, by each exporter, and what is the result of the determination of the discrepancy in the financial statements of the main producer. I would be grateful for your oral answer, as the issue is of high material interest and needs institutional attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev, you have the opportunity to form your answer within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u256	Thank you. I think we can do this a lot faster. Now, on the specific issue of the discrepancy of the financial statements of the company, I have the company, perhaps "Farmiro" you said. It should be borne in mind that the consignment goods for the purposes of accounting.. what the company reports are reflected as revenue at the time they are sold. For the purposes of the 2018 Value Added Tax Act, they are reflected as exports of intra-Community supplies as soon as they leave the country's territory. Differences may arise from there for the following reason: from 1 January 2020, a procedure has been introduced for the storage of goods to a request for companies under which the taxable person may transfer goods representing part of his economic assets from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State without affecting them as intra-Community supplies. It is therefore possible that these goods are produced but not accounted for either because they are not exported or if they are exported under this special scheme. Now specifically for the data on... Just to say that the Customs Agency has carried out an examination of all exports and no export data has been established from the Republic of Bulgaria to third countries of raw precious mink skins for third countries, which means that most likely, if any, they are intra-Community. Now, specifically for the export of a company by company, there is no way we can provide you with data because of the Statistics Act, where consent is required by each of the companies. We can only provide aggregate data that you already have. If there's anything more we can do, we'd love to, but at the moment we have no record of illegal activity, lack of parole and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u257	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Ms. Stratieva, you have the opportunity for two supplementary questions according to the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vassilev, does this mean that Bulgaria is suffering financial damage by seeing such large differences in the amount of 11 million. U.S. dollars suddenly 17 or 11,000. lv.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u259	You can ask your second question and give it a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u260	Okay. And if not, explain to us why. Because I think that's a very fragile difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Mr. Vassilev, you have three minutes to explain everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u262	We cannot tolerate damage, as the difference is most likely produced in one of two ways. One option is to sell the goods to another company, but not to leave the country's territory, respectively the VAT on exports will not be reflected because it is reflected at the time of leaving the country's territory. That's one hypothesis. The other hypothesis is that they were sold after 1 January 2020 under the procedure for the storage of goods up to a request under which the taxable person may transfer goods representing part of his economic assets from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State without being reflected as intra-Community supplies. That is, if the company has a warehouse in Bulgaria and in the Netherlands for example, it can transfer between the two warehouses that are its property without being reflected under the Value Added Tax Act. So, one of these two modes of exchange, my colleagues say that they have done an inspection, I can't tell you which of these two modes, but they allow you to get exactly such a discrepancy in data without damaging the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u263	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Stratieva, you have an opportunity for treatment. No. Thank you. With this the participation of Mr. Asen Vassilev in today's parliamentary control is over. We move on to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadjov. The issue is from the MP Emil Georgiev about the way in which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works intends to solve the problems with the quality of drinking water in Haskovo municipality. Please prepare the MPs who have questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Denkov because two of the questions to Mr. Karadzhov are dismissed. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u264	Mrs. President, Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev, Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov, Minister Denkov, ladies and gentlemen of parliament! In the spring of 2017 there was a non-compliance of water from the water sources for domestic and drinking water supply of Haskovo Municipality with the requirements of Regulation No 9 on water quality intended for domestic and drinking purposes in relation to the indicator....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In conditions of rapid monitoring from mid-2017 until March 2021, an order of RZI haskovo, the water supplied by the water supply network was in place to be used only for domestic use. During this whole period, drinking water and food preparation was supplied in Haskovo with only 12 watermen. In the beginning of April 2018, as Executive Secretary of the Federation of Consumers, I held meetings with the Ministry of Regional Development's leadership in the face of Minister Nankov. At the meetings of Regional Development were engaged with a lasting solution to the problem by the end of 2019. A joint letter to the Federation of Consumers dated 14 May 2018 by the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Waters underlined that the only alternative solution to the problem of quality of drinking water was the completion of a treatment plant on Trakiets dam. Unfortunately, instead of providing funds for the completion of the existing treatment plant, which is 15 km from the town of Haskovo, and where the water supply of the city by the summer of 2004 was carried out on a gravitational path, 2 million were released. lv. for the construction of another eight duplicate drilling wells for drinking water in three zones of the same underground water body, which has been proven to be radioactively contaminated. For the record, there are no experts who claim that radioactive contamination of water is due to excess uranium content. From the officially known analysis results from spring 2017 to date, there is only one single sample in which the uranium content is above normal and very little. At the same time, experts say that radioactive contamination is due to alpha particles, which are a major factor in blood disease, including leukemia. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov, my question is: when and how will the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works solve the problems with the quality of drinking water in Haskovo Municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u265	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Karadjov, you have the opportunity to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, before I read to you the answer which they have prepared for me jointly from the water holding company and from the MRB, I will tell you that Haskovo, the whole area, well, I would say, number one in my personal and my team focus from the point of view of the exact factor...... pollution........................................................ For decades, this issue has been before the state to resolve and, unfortunately, we find it unresolved. Indeed, at this point, when I answer your question, there are several different jobs in the political cabinet and in the expert groups of the Minister and in the holding of the water. There we are developing a whole new approach to purify Haskovo's water, as well as looking for ways to finance it. Otherwise, to your particular question, I can say that, in 2017, after the determination of the non-compliances by the natural uranium benchmark, the problem water sources in Haskovo region were excluded. In order to ensure the required quantity of water with Order No 91, funds of 1 million have been made available. 953 thousand. lv. for Haskovo Municipality to finance the site and additional emergency water supply to the town of Haskovo. Eight pipe wells and water pipes are built in the site. The objects have been put into operation. The results of the regular monitoring of water quality in the town of Haskovo by RZI show compliance with the requirements of Ordinance No 9 of 16 March 2001 on water quality intended for drinking-bit purposes. In addition to the budget of the MRB in 2020 and 2021, the municipality of Haskovo has been provided with funds of nearly 1 million. $800,000. lv. for reconstruction of the internal water supply network of the city in order to reduce accidents and ensure continuity of water supply. At the same time as the measures described to solve the quality of drinking water problems on the territory of Haskovo Municipality in the period 2020 - 2021, the MRDP carried out a study of the possibilities for using water on the water dam of Trakiets for the supply of the town of Haskovo with drinking water. The study includes water research from the reservoir..Trakyets....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the study, it was found that approximately 30 million were needed to build a water treatment plant for drinking water, an underground facility and water pipelines. lv. Currently, the MRRB is developing a regional pre-investment survey for a separate territory served by the VK Ltd., Haskovo. The scope of the development includes consideration of all agglomerations, over 2000 equivalents of inhabitants for waste water extraction and treatment for all settlements over 50 inhabitants for drinking water. Within the scope of the Regional Pre-investment Studies (RIPs) strategic options for providing water of good quality for Haskovo's water supply will be considered. The aim is to choose the best engineering solution to address identified problems in an economically effective way. Various possibilities for the city's water supply, including from surface water sources, and the use of the "Trakitets" dam will be considered. The IPIP will also identify the specific sites that will be financed by European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u267	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Georgiev, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Karadjov, once again, Haskovo's problem and Haskovo's water is not uranium, but alpha particles. I mentioned that for this period from 2017 to the present time there is only one sample of uranium that has an indicator of 0,041 milligrams per litre at a level of 0.03 milligrams per litre. But the alpha particle data, which, by the way, ionizes over 10,000 water molecules, that is, break them down, create the prerequisites for cancer, are startling. I'll only quote a few data, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Haskovo sample, Liberation Square, central part? 10 times the limit level alpha activity. The Haskovo-1 pump station is 14 times the limit level alpha activity at a normal level, normal for uranium. Haskovo, the district of Badema....12 times at the normal norm of uranium. Haskovo, the district of Kenna....16 times the limit limit. And notice, the town of Haskovo, a central water supply of 21 times the limit concentration at the level of uranium within the borders. This is essentially 21 times the permissible norm, which can also be considered as an environmental disaster. I can quote more data and not to be naked, I will quote another data survey of 29 districts across the country through the Ministry of Health this is as of 2013. In this ranking Haskovo occupies the sad first place in the number of malignancies across the country, standardized by world standards over 100 thousand. Haskovo is between 320 and 350 for both men and women. Therefore, urgent measures must be taken. I know we have different initiatives to bring water from Kardzhali and elsewhere. This will likely take place in the next 10 years. Until then, if the problem of Trakiets dam is not resolved, the people of Haskovo will continue to drink radioactive contaminated water.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u269	Thanks for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u270	To conclude, I will provide you with this letter to the three ministries signed by the Deputy Ministers, where it is written that it can be summarised that there are no alternative sources of groundwater for Haskovo. From now on, this letter is [[the President signals that time has run out]] of 14 May 2018 The potential sources of surface water that can be used as alternative water supply for Haskovo and the region for Trakiets dam and Borovitsa dam in Kardzhali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u271	Mr. Georgiev, leave the letter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u272	Yes, thank you. So I'm asking you really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u273	Thanks for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u274	As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I will initiate a Commission visit where, together with local self-government bodies, we will try to resolve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u275	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u276	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I am entirely solidarity with what you say. I am convinced that several times water sources with drilling have been closed. Obviously every new well at the beginning gives enough quality to the water, but over time this well, naturally, is contaminated. We are convinced of the Ministry, I am personally convinced that no matter how many times we change the drilling sites, we will always come to the same result. That is why we are seriously considering both the solution with the dam of Trakiets and other surface water sources, where, naturally, it is very easy to measure and to see that the water is neither contaminated with manganese, it is another concern that it complies with the Ordinance, which is from 2011, but does not comply with the new European requirements for water purity. So we have to look one step further. As I said, and at this moment we are working on a financing option of exactly such source for the water supply and sewerage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u277	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. That's the end of the question for Minister Karadjov. Thanks for being a part of this. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov. The first question is from the National Representative Veska Nencheva on the process of attestation for teachers, laid down by the current Pre-school and School Education Act of 2016. Here you are, Ms. Nencheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u278	Dear Minister, honourable Members, dear Madam Chairman! Dear Minister, with the adoption and implementation of the Preschool and School Education Act, changes have been imposed in the work of the education system, many of them inadequate and inconsiderable. For the 5 years since the implementation of the Law, it turns out that the process of adestimation is part of the nonsense in it, there is no clear mechanism and criteria, repeated delays have been made, where there has already been an attestation for fellow teachers, it is not clear exactly what is the point of the lost time and further paperwork created. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: what is the attitude of the Ministry of Education to the process of attestations laid down in the Preschool and School Education Act? Is there a vision of its adequate, productive and meaningful realization? If there is, how and when will the attestation process be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u279	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Here you go, Mr. Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, with the entry into force of the Law on pre-school and school education in August 2016, the four-year period in which the conditions laid down in the law were to be fulfilled in order for the first attestation to be made. According to the Law, this attestation is a process of assessing the conformity of the activities of pedagogical specialists with their professional profile, with the requirements for the performance of the post and with the strategy for the development of kindergarten, school or center for support for personal development. During these first four years, pedagogical specialists had to acquire qualification and awarded qualification credits as a result of participation in trainings. The amendments made in 2020 to Regulation No 15 on the status of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists were also linked to the process of inspection of institutions. This has proved incomplete and not quite appropriate because the inspection process is related to the institution, and the attestation process is individual, making them somewhat independent of each other and binding them in mechanical order, in the case of non-existent legally justified logical links. Those circumstances slowed down the process of attestations laid down in the Law and did not allow it to start simultaneously for all pedagogical specialists in all institutions. Thus, in 2021, the attestation began for schools and kindergartens that were already inspected, such as institutions and regional centers for support for personal development, the Centers for children with special educational needs and the National Palace of Children. I am doing this review to present the steps that the Ministry of Education and Science has taken in implementing the provisions of the Law, including the establishment and amendments of the state educational standard for the status and professional development of teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialists. In 2021, another step was taken in order to facilitate the process of attestations with amendments and additions to Regulation No 15 on status and professional development, and these amendments provided the possibility of carrying out the attestations in electronic format. Thus, legal bases were established for both the work of the Commission and the holding of the meetings and the filling of the attestation card in the process of self-assessment. Texts were amended to reduce to a certain extent the administrative burden, but the process itself as a concept remained, as set out in the provisions of the Law and creating the problems that have already been mentioned. To your question is there a vision for a productive and meaningful realization of this process of attestation and when and how it will be realized I can say the following: in the Ministry of Education and Science there is already a group working in which are included besides experts from the Ministry of Education and Social Partners and representatives of the social partners of trade unions, employers' organizations and representatives of private schools and kindergartens. Within the working group, proposals for changes relating to the process of attestation among other issues are discussed. The working group will also consider feedback reports and proposals from these educational institutions in which an attestation has already been conducted. The aim is to take into account the views of those who have actually participated in the process and have faced its negative aspects. The formula for evaluation and the criteria in the attestation card are also discussed, which inevitably lead to a discussion of the professional profiles of the pedagogical specialists with whom the attestation has a direct connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u281	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ms. Nencheva, can you make a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u282	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, asking this question was necessary because the answer that you received from the guild is not to say that it will reassure them in any way, but it gives clarity that the Ministry of Education is considering the process that, indeed in 2016, created great tension among the guild without clear criteria, without clearly explained principles on which they should work. Colleagues were also charged with this additional action to do their portfolio and things that really made it difficult for them. So thanks for the answer. At least I understand that the work is really responsible and with the creation of this working group, it is extremely important that you comply with the opinions of the already tested teachers and the inspected educational institutions. Here my call is actually also to my colleagues: let them, if they have comments, if they have any suggestions that can improve this process, let them be active, do so. I think the Ministry of Education will find a good partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u283	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. We move on to the next question again by the National Representative Veska Nencheva on admission for the academic 2022 in a foreign language profile in the secondary school.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u284	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, the educational system is called to be adequate and useful to public needs and expectations. At the same time, it forms and defines these attitudes and expectations, i.e. the process is mutual. Admissions are to be made after the 7th grade for the 2022 school year. In the municipality of Karlovo four years ago a situation was created, dictated by the policy of the Ministry of Education for closing and transformation of classes with foreign language profile in secondary schools. Last year at the Secondary School of secondary school...................................................................................................... There was tension in the teachers' collectives and the public in Karlovo and the region. I also expressed their positions from the National Assembly's stands and nevertheless the withdrawal of foreign language classes was imposed and replacing them with something else that was explained to compensate for the number of foreign language classes. In this regard, Minister, my question to you is: what is the attitude of the Ministry of Education towards this particular case and what will the two schools offer for the next school year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u285	Here you are, Minister Denkov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Ms. Nencheva, for the question. Regarding the state-acceptance plan in the eighth grade in the two secondary schools...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Karlovo is a large municipality and is remote from Plovdiv at a distance, which does not suggest a daily trip of students so that they can study in language schools in the city. So at the moment, the directors of the two schools have planned a reception in three classes as follows: Secondary school.Vasil Levski ".. a class with a profile.. Natural sciences. one class with a profile.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Middle school "Sofia Prodanov" a class with a profile "Software and hardware sciences"; a class with a profile "Foreign languages" and a class with a profile "Entrepreneurship". That is, in each of the schools there is a class of foreign languages. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when validating the state acceptance plan, it must also comply with the requests for training in specialties from professions that come from employers and their representative organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u287	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Here's a line for you, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u288	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, today I have asked you two questions and I am pleased that I have received two satisfying answers. It is extremely important to me that you, as Minister, confirm something that we have had to fight for, both as a Member of the National Assembly, as well as the colleagues in the two collectives, the directors of both schools and the entire public of Karlovo and the area in which a cause has actually proved to be right. It took us three years to explain that it was in Karlovo that we needed to preserve foreign language classes. First of all, because we have prepared colleagues who have their professionalism. There is interest on the part of the students, they enter with a very high level after 7th grade and come with an equally high level in 12th grade when they are the state maturity exams. I regret that last year the entire public had to suffer such humiliations, even at a time when it was explained to our children in Karlovo that they could safely travel or cope in some way. The process, which has started within a year, ultimately has a good result, and I believe that this is due to the understanding of the Ministry of Education at present, and to the joint and joint work of everyone who we care about quality education in the two schools in Karlovo Municipality and at the national level. This is a good example of defending a principled cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u289	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Secretary, I assume you don't have an ass. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Irena Anastasova on the action of the Ministry of Education and Science after 20 inspections and detected violations in the management activities of the Director of the School of Education. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u290	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question to you relates to the actions taken by the Ministry of Education and Science just as was put forward by the lady presiding, carried out 20 checks and detected violations in the activities of the Director of School of Education Ivan Vazov. The reason to ask this question is that I was approached by a group of teachers from the school of education. Ivan Vazov, who introduced me to the conditions in which they were forced to work, the stress they experience on a daily basis, the disciplinary penalties imposed on them, their public embarrassment, personal discreditation and defamation of authority, as well as the removal from the work of a deputy director who dared to express professional opinion, different from that of the principal of primary school Mrs. Teodora Yordanova. The serious problems in the management of the school have led to a reaction in the form of numerous complaints and signals followed by checks carried out by the Regional Government, by the Ministry of Education and Science, separate checks involving experts on the Operational Program. Mrs. Yordanova has held this position since 2016. 15 prescription orders have been issued to Mrs. Yordanova from 2018 to the Head of Regional Government, which has not been appealed. From January 2020 to December 2021 for two years the cited 20 checks by the Ministry of Education, 3 inspections by the Ministry of Education, and one examination with the participation of experts in the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" have been carried out at the school. A number of infringements have been found and a response has been duly drawn up on each of the alerts after verification and the problem remains unresolved. However, for this period, in fact, as a result of these checks carried out on the Director four times, disciplinary punishment and notice of dismissal has been imposed, and nevertheless the Head of Regional Government has not imposed the next step on the Punitive Punishment and the firing of Ms. Yordanova with the justification that Mrs. Yordanova is the Secretary of the Municipal Coordination Council of the Independent Teachers' Syndicate. In the question that I have sent to you, I have pointed out some of the violations, but they are of the kind that, for example, she is both a director and a member of the Board of Directors, which is a serious violation of the provisions of the Pre-school and School Education Act, as well as that serious violations have been detected in relation to the Project of qualification of professional development of pedagogical specialists funded by the Operational Programme. In this regard and in view of everything I have raised so far, my question to you is: do you think that in view of the serious violations of the legal provisions and the repeated criminal penalties, it is permissible for Mrs. Yordanova to continue to be Director of the School of Education Ivan Vazov. What actions do you intend to take to end this absurdity that continues in the quoted school after 20 inspections, for more than three years now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u292	Dear Mrs. Anastasova, I fully share your anxiety and will actually update the numbers because I have them even more worried. 31 checks were carried out by RUO Ruse in the period 2019 in which numerous violations of the provisions of the Law on pre-school and school education, the Labour Code and state educational standards in the system of pre-school and school education were found. As a result of the checks carried out, 18 orders with mandatory prescriptions were issued by the Head of the RIO Ruse, who were not appealed by the principal of the school and entered into force. In addition, Mrs. Teodora Yordanova is charged a total of 5 criminal penalties with orders of the Head of School of Ruse, as of 31 July 2019, 10 August 2020, 1 March 2021, 10 May 2021 and 22 November 2021. One imposed penalty is not appealed and the other four have pending cases. Ms. Teodora Yordanova is the Secretary of the Municipal Coordination Council of the Independent Teachers' Union of the CNSB in Ruse Municipality, with effect from 22 May 2020. According to the legal requirements RAO Ruse has made three requests to the Syndicate for prior consent to termination of the employment relationship with Ms. Teodora Yordanova on the grounds of art. 330, para. 2, p. 6 of the Labour Code, and all three times has been refused by the Chairman of the Independent Teachers' Syndicate. For this reason, and for this reason alone, disciplinary punishment has been imposed... Warning of dismissal................................................................................................ The court's caselaw in this regard is the same as the court's annulment of any dismissal order in respect of which the legal prerequisites for issuing it are not complied with, in this case, with the agreement of the Syndicate. In connection with complaints and signals in the period from 2019 " 2021" in the school "Ivan Vazov" "the city of Ruse," checks were also carried out by the Department of Labour Inspectorate. "Ruse," and the Municipality of Ruse. During that period, experts from the Ministry of Education carried out 3 checks at the school on signals related to the spending of funds under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." As a result of the illegal activities of the project held in July 2021 by a commission of the Ministry of Education and Education, the Ministry of Education and Education and Education, the Ministry of Education and Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education of Education, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice of the In March, a commission from the Ministry of Education and Science is scheduled to carry out a check of activities of the Director of the School of Education Ivan Vazov. In other words, the only obstacle to the Director's dismissal is the requirement of the Labour Code, which we must comply with. I will make one final attempt to talk to the Chairman of the Independent Teachers' Union at the SNSB in an attempt to end this saga because it obviously harms the authority of the Bulgarian school.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Anastasova, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u294	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I've been listening to you the whole time, and you've given more up-to-date information about continuing findings of a violation of the laws, and all the time I've been thinking that membership in any syndicate couldn't be an indulgence for breaking the laws. I really ask you to speak with the Chairman of the Independent Teachers' Syndicate because my deep belief that trade union organisations are designed to represent the interests of their members in order to protect their members in the interests of their employers' irregular actions, but my deep conviction is not to conceal and be a comfortable port of people who break the laws, all the more so that there are employers' organisations, and I personally do not think that it is right for a school director to be at the same time president of the Municipal Organization of the Independent Teachers' Syndicate. Of course I'm sorry if someone tries to interpret my words in a coup, but it is my deep belief that there is no justification for union protection being applied when, in the eyes of the entire Russian public, an educational institution is being destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. We move on to the last question to the Minister of Education and Science, and he is from the National Representative Andrey Chorbanov on an investigation into abuse of office in the Regional Management of Education. Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make a question with the whole agreement that exactly the same question I ask Minister Boyko Rashkov, as it concerns both institutions. Dear Ministers, after the publicly released information from Minister Boyko Rashkov about abuse of office on principals of schools and teachers who are campaigned to vote for a particular party, and after numerous meetings with citizens in Sofia, I have been asked the question: how far has the investigation reached and what measures has the Minister of Education taken regarding the pressure of an official of the Regional Management of Education Sofia-district? People are worried about future consequences of keeping their jobs, as well as expressing their free will and the right to choose. My question is: at what stage is the investigation of the Minister of Interior and what is the information your Ministry has about this investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u297	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u298	Thank you, Madam President. Professor Chorbanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have repeatedly had the opportunity to explain in recent months, in our education system there are persistent disturbing processes of political and party activity, as well as related to this activity dependencies, which is absolutely unacceptable. There are cases, as is the case in the Regional Management of Education, where the heads and employees of RVO and school principals engage in political activities, participate in party events during election campaigns and exert political pressure on their subordinates, taking advantage of their official status in the school system. The expression of political beliefs and election campaigning in the workplace prejudice the principle of political neutrality and may lead to unacceptable consequences for the system of pre-school and school education at the expense of professional and expert beginnings in its functioning. Against the backdrop of this reality, there are no texts in the current Pre-school and School Education Act to regulate the intolerance of this type of activity. For this reason, I proposed specific amendments to the Law, which have already been examined and adopted by the National Assembly at the first vote and have the main purpose of banning political and party activities, as well as the related campaign in the system of pre-school and school education, and to ensure political neutrality in the performance of the duties. In particular, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Education and Science is carrying out checks on each alert in a timely manner, including with regard to alerts for unauthorised political activity within the framework of the service carried out. By law, however, the Ministry of Education is not allowed to view anonymous signals, and unfortunately, most signals related to party activities and campaigning in the school system are such. In addition, such signals usually require investigation, and the Ministry of Education has no investigative functions. I'm very familiar with this signal. He's pathetic, I'd say. It is full of specifics, numbers, dates, specific activities that have been carried out in complete violation of the idea of political neutrality in the performance of functions in the system. But the signal is anonymous, and that's why it's being forwarded to the Ministry of Interior authorities because it needs an investigation. I sincerely hope that the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on pre-school and school education will provide a solid basis for follow-up actions ensuring the independence and depolitization of the pre-school and school education system.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u299	Thank you, Mr. Denkov. Mr. Chorbanov, do you have a line? Thank you. With this we move to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Teodora Genchovska, who will answer a question from the National Representative Alexandra Korcheva concerning planned follow-up to the process of accepting Bulgaria in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Here you are, Mrs. Korcheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, on 26 January 2022, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development announced that it began negotiations with six countries, including Bulgaria, on their accession to the Organisation. The other countries are Argentina, Brazil, Peru, Romania and Croatia. In its official position, the OECD stated that there is no timetable for the adoption of each of these countries and that the progress of the membership negotiations will depend on the extent to which the candidate countries adhere to the Organisation's principles and values, and the process will include technical monitoring and synchronization in the field of different priority areas such as open trade, investment, public governance progress, anti-corruption efforts and environmental protection. In this regard, Minister, could you outline the future steps in front of our country, what are the requirements we need to meet, and what do you think is the most effective approach to Bulgaria's adoption as a member of the OECD as soon as possible? This is also particularly relevant in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, so I would be happy to hear your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Korcheva, Bulgaria's accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is one of the main foreign policy priorities in the Joint Governance Agreement 2021. The decision of the OECD Council is from 25 January 2022 to start talks on accession with the six candidate countries that you have listed, including Bulgaria. This marks the beginning of an extremely important process for our country. With the reply of the Prime Minister of the OECD Secretary-General to start the talks, the answer was sent on 26 January, that is, the next day after receiving the invitation, our country confirmed its attachment to the fundamental principles, values and objectives of the Organisation, namely democracy, human rights, rule of law, open transparent market economy, sustainable and inclusive growth. The next step is to provide Bulgaria with a roadmap with specific parameters of the process of joining the OECD and the upcoming steps. The roadmap shall be drawn up by the OECD Secretariat and shall be accepted, approved by all OECD Member States, with full unanimity. It can be expected to be approved in the nearest months. After receiving this roadmap, the actual accession process begins in practice. And this process includes in-depth technical reviews that will be carried out by over 20 thematic committees of the Organisation in different areas, such as trade, investment, public governance, integrity and combating corruption, environmental protection and combating climate change, digital economy, regional development, quality infrastructure, competition, employment and social policy. Technical reviews are the basis and longest part actually of the whole accession process. The speed of the process will largely depend on our commitment and ability to present the requested information, as well as to take the necessary action in accordance with the recommendations made to us, including changes to legislation where necessary. In general, in the process of accession talks, our country is expected to demonstrate a convincing commitment and capacity to implement the OECD legal instruments and follow policies in accordance with the Organization's standards and principles. It is important to note that the process of accession talks must take place in a spirit of cooperation. The ultimate goal is for Bulgaria to identify and implement the necessary reforms, which will not only lead to OECD membership, but will be in our country's interest to improve the quality and effectiveness of the policies implemented. Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union is a similar thinking country and to a very large extent follows compatible with the legal instruments of the OECD policies and practices. Our aim is to complete the process of talks within two to three years, as is the experience of the countries of the European Union, which last joined the OECD, such as Lithuania. For this purpose, maximum mobilisation of the Bulgarian administration is needed, including adequate personnel resources in each office for work on the accession process, as well as the provision of the necessary funds. As head of the Interdepartmental Coordination Mechanism for Accession to the OECD, I have already ordered and was convened on 24 February the first meeting on this mechanism. I can provide you with further information on the results. The composition of this mechanism is adapted in accordance with the new structure of the Council of Ministers. At this meeting, concrete steps were discussed in general, which should be taken to start work on the so-called initial memorandum by which the country will state its starting position across the whole range of legal instruments and policies of the Organisation. I would like to point out that in the forthcoming process of talks with the OECD, it is crucial for the successful and rapid achievement of this objective, i.e. membership of the Organisation, to be the role of the National Assembly. The practice of previous OECD enlargement rounds shows that it is appropriate to establish a temporary parliamentary mechanism for joining the OECD with the participation of representatives of all political parties. Finally, I would like to point out that the OECD membership, which is actually an established international organisation with a leading role in developing and implementing the highest international standards in all key areas, will help improve the quality of life of citizens by optimising the functioning of a number of sectors. Besides the undisputed economic benefits of this...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u303	Mrs. Genchevska, you'll have a chance in the back. You've exceeded twice the time, no problem... Let's give a line, then you'll finish. Here you go, Mrs. Korcheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u304	Mrs. Genchevska, thank you very much for the really comprehensive information you provide us with. I believe that our process of admission to the OECD is extremely important and is something that we all believe in will make our best efforts so that our adoption into this organisation can take place as soon as possible. I'd love to hear some more in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u305	Thank you. Here you go. Now you can finish everything that's important in the back, and you can tell us about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u306	What I want to share is a little additional information, very briefly. It is linked to financial costs because it is actually a very important element. At this stage, the amount of expenditure due by Bulgaria, related to the accession process, can hardly be determined with accuracy. Taking into account the organisation's declassified financial statements for previous periods and based on informal information from the Secretariat, it can be expected that the total amount of these costs would be between 2 and 4 million per year. Euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u307	Thank you, Minister Gencovska. Thanks for being a part of this. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Defense Mr. Dragomir Zakov. The first question is from the MP Petar Petrov concerning the total number and total value of the real estates of the Ministry of Defence, which were the subject of management transactions during the period May 2017. "May 2021" Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all, I welcome you to your new position. I hope to carry out effective parliamentary control in your portfolio from now on. My question is this: in order to present it, I would like to point out that we have always had important state ownership and we believe that the ownership of the Ministry of Defence is an essential part of what the state owns. Next, we get the impression that when the power is replaced by one coalition, as in the present case, the handover of power may be over by handing over some political initiatives, but not by handing over a material base and with one public information exactly what is passed on from one going government to another. Or at least we as MPs have not received such a report. That is why the question that I have asked is as follows: to obtain information on how many properties of the Ministry of Defence were the subject of instrumental transactions in one form or another, whether as a replacement, whether as a sale, whether as a donation, during the period when it managed the previous management of GERB and the so-called United patriots in the period May 2017? And next, to answer if possible what is the total value of these instrumental transactions, because I believe that Bulgarian society, in particular, we MPs, have the right to learn exactly what money the Ministry of Defence has received for any such transactions carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u309	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u310	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, the Ministry of Defense is indeed managing a large resource of real estate. Some of them are active infrastructure and are provided in the management of military formations as independent legal entities. Another part is the properties of the Housing Fund of the Ministry of Defence, which are provided for the management of the Executive Agency. A small part is the liberated infrastructure, which has been devoid of necessity for the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. In the Ministry of Defence there is a reduction of the volume of ownership within what is necessary to carry out the functions and tasks of both the Ministry and the Bulgarian Army. At the same time, a process has begun to upgrade the remaining material base for the pre-located army with a long-term forecast for development. As a result of structural reform in the Ministry of Defence and in the Bulgarian Army and optimizes the composition of the armed forces during the period 1999 The Ministry of Defence has a well-established vision that relates to the strategic defence review for the period 2020 - 2032 and is consistent with the basic principles and intentions for the development of the armed forces and structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence. The main principle laid down in this vision is to take priority into account the needs of the property structures currently needed for the performance of their functions, including airports, warehouses, polygons, mobilization bases and others in the subsequent 12-year period. Property with a reduced need in the management of the Ministry of Defence may be subject to two types of instrumental acts under the Law on State Property and the Rules for Implementation of the Law. These are sale by auction with secret bidding and free provision of municipalities and offices. By means of the administrative actions, the sale of the company through an auction with a secret auction, significant revenues for the state budget are realised and the costs of the office in the form of taxes, security, maintenance and administrative capacity for their services are dropped. For the period for which your question has been asked, by order of the Minister of Defence, 313 tender procedures have been opened and conducted, of which 104 have concluded contracts, i.e. sales. The amount I have and it is 79 million. Three hundred and 072,27 leva. Regarding the free provision of municipalities and offices for the period for which the question was asked, 75 properties and 24 apartments were provided. The Ministry of Defence is working in parallel from both directions of sales and grant by order of the State Property Act and the Implementing Rules, subject to the basic policy of exempting from unnecessary infrastructure of the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u311	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have an opportunity for a line, Mr. Petrov. There isn't one. Thank you. We move on to the next question by the MPs Ivan Totev and Stefan Shilev concerning free transfer under the order of art. 54 of the State Property Property Act of the Municipality of Plovdiv, located in the district of Plovdiv with identifier 56784.529. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, first of all, congratulations on your assignment! My question is related to the following: with numerous consecutive decisions from 2010 to 2018. Municipal Council Plovdiv expressed his will that the Municipality of Plovdiv acquire state property located on the territory of the region. For the realization of these sites necessary for the sustainable fulfillment of local public needs, these properties are needed. It should be borne in mind that the total area of State property located in the district of Over the years, many of these properties have been sold to private individuals and respectively some of the largest residential and commercial buildings in the region of Plovdiv in order to protect the public interest, thwart the possibility of rebuilding in the neighborhood and, above all, making an adequate decision on the future of the largest free terrain public ownership in the city of Plovdiv, the properties are allocated for landscaping, education and specially designed terrain for culture for the construction of the future House of the Opera of Plovdiv. Meanwhile, there are numerous signals from citizens about poor property management, emerging fires and illegal landfills, for which signals have been sent both to the Ministry of Defence and to the Ministry of Defence. Is it not better for the citizens of Plovdiv to dedicate their properties to the creation of parks, schools and kindergartens, House of the Opera of Plovdiv than to stay idle or to rebuilding the area by selling plots for construction of residential mastodonts? Isn't improving the health and life of citizens recorded as one of the objectives of your coalition agreement? In this regard, my question to you is: would you order to initiate the necessary actions under art. 54 of the State Property Act for the acquisition of properties by the Municipality of Plovdiv in order to improve the living environment of Plovdiv? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u313	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Mr. Minister, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u314	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Member of the National Assembly, according to art. 54 of the State Property Act, free of charge, transfer of property to private state property in favour of municipalities, is for the performance of their functions or related to the permanent fulfillment of public needs of local importance in compliance with State aid legislation and rules. It is carried out by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Requests for free transfer shall be made through the district governor who gives a reasoned opinion. Municipalities are not allowed to donate the acquired property free of charge. They may replace or contribute as a non-cash contribution to the capital of commercial companies the acquired properties only in cases relating to the realization of sites necessary for the permanent fulfilment of local public needs. The grant of property is a solution, where appropriate in case of proven public needs and public interest, the realization of municipal infrastructure, projects of regional importance. The question raised is whether I would order to initiate the necessary actions under art. 54 of the State Property Act refers to seven land estates located in the city of Plovdiv, the district of Plovdiv, with management rights granted to the Ministry of Defence. These properties have a weak need for the Bulgarian army, adopted in the management of the Ministry of Defence as a liberated infrastructure. The Ministry of Defence has concluded an agreement of 2015 with the Municipality of Plovdiv and three anexes to it, with the last annex expired in 2017, according to which the Municipality has agreed to carry out specific construction and repair activities against which the Ministry of Defence has committed to provide free of charge on the property of the Municipality of Plovdiv six properties. By a 2019 agreement, the Ministry of Defence reduced the number of properties to be transferred free of charge to the Municipality of Plovdiv after the Municipality completed the construction and repair activities. The agreement expired in 2020. After the expiry of the last agreement, given the suspended remarks by the Ministry of Defence, the Municipality of Plovdiv has been informed of the withdrawal of its consent for free transfer of the three properties. In 2021, a commission carried out a physical examination of the construction and repair activities and found problems with the Municipality of Plovdiv. These problems should have been addressed within the time limit. In this regard, a new verification of the comments of the Ministry of Defence is under way during this year, after which the Ministry is to take a decision as appropriate with regard to its commitments to the Municipality of Plovdiv. As you know, the defence ministry's efforts are aimed at building a modern army, but this cannot happen without a social policy that meets the needs of the servicemen not only at the present time, but also in the coming years. Part of social policy is housing, without them military service is not attractive enough, and this is what the selection of people who wish to be professional servicemen suffers. This is also the main reason to seek new opportunities to provide servicemen and civilians with housing. The Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2032 provides for the provision of a higher social status of the servicemen, which also includes the possibility to provide sufficient number of homes in a government housing fund of the Ministry to be used for rent under the current legal order. In this regard, the Ministry of Defence provides for the use of the possibility of resolving the existing problem of housing shortages by conducting procedures for establishing the right to building properties in the management of the Ministry, situated in settlements where there is a real need for housing. In 2022, an update is made on the properties on which procedures for the surrender of the right to construction are to be implemented. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These proposals also fall within the scope of the property in question in the district of Varna. For two of the properties there are already adopted decisions of the Council of Ministers to give consent to determine the terms and conditions for establishing a right to construction. I know the time has run out, last time. Seen from the foregoing, the vision of the Ministry of Defence for the properties located in Plovdiv, the district of Plovdiv is to provide housing for the servicemen and civilian employees in the Plovdiv garrison, but in view of commitments made and fulfilled under agreements, further analysis and assessment of all facts and circumstances will be made, after which the Ministry of Defence will decide as appropriate with regard to the free transfer of property to Plovdiv Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u315	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line, Mr. Shilev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u316	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I really hoped that you would come out of even more, that you are recently a minister, you will come out of the cliché of what is prepared for you by the Ministry, and you will see the need of citizens in the fastest and most industrially developing region of Bulgaria, because these properties are now located in almost a wide centre of Plovdiv. I understand that the need for soldiers and the Ministry of Defense to hold them is to have a number of benefits in this direction, i.e. to live, to work in the center of such a beautiful city, but in fact the need for kindergartens, the House of the Opera and so on is very important. Last but not least, a large part of these properties have changed purpose or will be changed purpose, so it is very likely that there will be no possibility of building there. So I'm committed to... I hope there will also be an understanding of you to maintain contact, including with the local administration, so as to find as far as possible a mutually acceptable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u317	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Is there anything you'd like to add, Mr. Minister? Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Hristo Gazhev concerning the default of the RSK by the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u318	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as you know in 2018, a Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Defence and RSK was concluded for repairs of MiG-29 aircraft units. It concluded five contracts, which by the end of last year have all been fulfilled or at least such information we have that by 31 December all contracts have been executed. In December 2020, the Ministry of Defence imposed a penalty for delay in the implementation of those contracts, which totalled 925 thousand. Euros. Of that, 138,000. The euros were transferred by the Ministry of Defence to the contractor RSK MIG and were transferred by RSK MIG in March 2020. The remaining part amounted to 738 thousand. EUR, or nearly 1.5 million. lv. have been brought up by the Ministry of Defence in December, but at least until now it is not clear what is happening to them. As far as I know, by a Tripartite Agreement, all rights and obligations arising from the Framework Agreement and the contracts concluded with it have been transferred to the command of the Air Force which take place in the capacity of a contracting entity in respect of the Framework Agreement in question and its Treaties. Accordingly, as of May 2021, there is no information on what activities the Ministry of Defence has undertaken to collect this penalty. That is also my question: Mr Minister, if you could inform us what activities the Ministry of Defence and the Air Force have undertaken in particular as a designated entity for the collection of the penalty of nearly 1.5 million. lv.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u319	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You have an opportunity to answer, Mr. Zakov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u320	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gazhev, on 28 April 2021 a Tripartite Agreement was concluded under which the Air Force, you were right, assume all the rights and obligations arising from the Framework Agreement and the contracts concluded with it. Following that date, no requests for damages were made to the Russian Industrial Association (RCC) "MIG" in view of the documents provided by the Russian company concerning the additional measures taken in the Russian Federation for non-proliferation of COVID-19 and unforeseen circumstances arose, expressed in additional requests from the customs authorities of the Russian Federation relating to the risk control system for exports of military goods and dual-use goods. Here the Russian side clearly refers to a force major. Before the signing of the tripartite agreement, RSK MIG had paid 185 thousand. 782 euros and 5 cents in late delivery and services of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Ministry of Defence before signing these trilateral agreements, received the penalty for default. The subsequent penalties were defined as force majeure. Once it became clear that we have a force majeure, additional agreements have been concluded to the relevant contracts to increase the deadlines for their implementation. These contracts were executed early in the course of five contracts. I'll make this very brief. The first contract was implemented on 23 September 2021 and the deadline was 31 December of the same year. The second contract was implemented on 4 December 2021 and the deadline was 26 December the same year. The third contract was implemented on 23 September 2021 and the deadline was almost the same, three days difference. The fourth contract was implemented on 29 July 2021 and the deadline was 7 September. The fifth contract was implemented on 23 September 2021 and the deadline was 13 November 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u321	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Mr. Gadget, do you have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, as far as I understand it, the penalty paid, first, the one paid, which at least from the data provided to me by the previous minister, was paid 138 thousand. Euros, now I understand it's 189,000, so there's obviously been some kind of discrepancy in the information prepared by the Ministry of Defense. Separately, the others who have claimed about a million and a half, that is, the Ministry has given up on them in favour of five other contracts that have been implemented so far, that is, there has been compensation, figuratively speaking. And these five contracts are in the amount of these funds, which we have been looking for as a penalty by the RSK "MIG" as of April 2021. Therefore, I hope that if the amounts match, the interests that Bulgaria should have protected are also protected. Accordingly, Kovid is definitely a force major and this is understood for any contract. Here, by the way, there have been a lot of speculation with similar contracts, which, thanks to the force majeure which has created, have delayed other contracts for the Ministry of Defence, so I hope this speculation will also be stopped by other people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u323	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u324	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gajev, I also noticed that there is a difference in the amounts you said and which I have with me regarding the penalty paid to the Ministry of Defense. I'll find out where the difference comes from and let you know further, of course. At the moment, because I spoke with the Air Force Commander this morning, his opinion is that the repairs were done qualitatively, the planes were in absolutely normal condition and flying, it didn't cost any extra money. However, I think that the penalty, which was requested by the Bulgarian side, has done a very good job and the Russian side has ultimately done the repairs without additional payment of money on our part. And ultimately the additional agreements were implemented, even some of them a few months earlier, but this did not result in damage to the Bulgarian Air Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u325	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the final question to Minister Dragomir Zakov. The issue is from the MP Hristo Gazhev on the purchase of fuels from the Ministry of Defence in 2021. Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u326	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Ministers, Minister Zakov! On 4 November 2021, a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and Terem. The total value is close to 23 million. 500 thousand without VAT on the fuels in question. This raises the question, for the simple reason that The Ministry of Defence has another trading company with a principal the Minister of Defence, which is a registered broker. The other thing that is of interest is that it was then made public that the contract itself was concluded with the idea to restore the financial situation of "Terem" EAD, which, looking at the contract between the Ministry and the Company, is for BGN 2500. About BGN 2,500. It is unlikely that a single company will recover, with the capacity of Terem. For me, the question remains: why has it resorted to this approach, given that, again, the Company has never dealt with an exchange brokerage before, even for its own needs, when buying fuels for its factories and workshops, but has used stock brokers registered on different exchanges to buy? In this sense, my question is: what is your assessment of the implementation of this contract and do you think the public interest in its implementation is protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u327	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You're an example of how you fit in your time and questions. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u328	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gazhev, "Terem Holding" is a sole shareholder company with sole owner of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. By Decision of 24 November 2021, the Minister of Defence in the centralised automated electronic procurement information system has opened a procedure for the award of a public procurement procedure without prior notice, on the basis of art. 18, para. 1, t. 8 of the Public Procurement Act and under the terms of art. 79, para. 1, t. 7 of the Public Procurement Act, as the subject of the contract, is the supply of goods traded on a commodity exchange, according to a list approved by the Council of Ministers Decree No 191 of 29 July 2016, as amended in December of that year. Stock Representation Contract of 13 November 2020 concluded with 20, para. 4 t. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, There is a licensed broker, but on the Sofia Stock Exchange. By decision of the contracting authority and by the order of art. 20, para. 4 t. 3 of the Public Procurement Act The Ministry of Defence has concluded a contract for an exchange representation with without VAT, or 3000 leva. with VAT included and duration from 19 November 2021 to 19 November 2022. He is a member of the National Stock Exchange and has an authorised broker of the National Stock Exchange holding a certificate for this activity issued on 4 November 2021 by the State Committee on Stock Exchanges and Trades. The National Stock Exchange through the authorised authorised broker has concluded the following stock contracts with the contracting minister of defence: A stock contract for the supply of aviation kerosene to a total of 10 million. 617 thousand. BGN 473. and the term of the contract 13 June 2022. The second contract is for the supply of car petrol F-67 for a total of around 3 million. 500 thousand and duration of the contract, same date 13 June 2022 The third contract is for the supply of diesel fuel F-75 for a total of around 1 million. 166,000. lv. and the term of the contract 19 June 2022. The fourth contract, and last, concluded on the Exchange, is for the supply of gas oil, sulphur for heating, to a total value without VAT of about 4.5 million. lv. and the term of the contract until 13 June 2022. According to the brokerage contract in the Ministry of Defence, monthly reports on the implementation of the concluded stock contracts by the stockbroker "Terem Holding" EAD are received. At the moment, to give a direct answer to your question, contracts are executed within time and according to the delivery schedule. My opinion is that for this reason the public interest is protected. We are talking about two companies, in the case of your question, companies of which the Minister of Defence is the principal. Either way, it was about In House. The previous management of the Ministry has estimated that this contract with "Terem" is obviously more profitable. It is important to me, as current minister, that contracts are executed within time and according to schedule. For this reason, I believe that public interest is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gadget, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, as has become clear from your reply, "Terem Holding" is registered on a particular exchange 20 days before it is entrusted to purchase the fuels. Whether and to what extent this means that there has been a willingness is an issue to be investigated, at least because I now want to inform you of a few things about these four contracts that you have commented on. For the aviation kerosene Jet A-1 the price at which Terem is buying kerosene per tonne is BGN 1537. a ton, which is 192 BGN. more per tonne than the average market price on the same exchange that day. Or, basically, the loss of this deal alone is over one million. 180,000. BGN, which are paid more than the higher price, compared with the average market price on the same exchange on the same day. The car gasoline F-67 is also purchased with 154 BGN. above the average price for the same day, or loss of 305 thousand. lv. Speaking of the second day, because, by the way, the deals are in two days on 15 December and 22 December. On December 22, the diesel fuel purchased is at a price of BGN 114. above the average price, which is on the same day, or BGN 1537. In the case of the gas oil, the price at which it exceeds the transaction, which was entered into by the average market, is BGN 127, or a loss of 348 thousand. lv. In total, losses from the average market price of the price at which Terem's EAD purchased amounted to more than 2 million. BGN, which means, Mr. Minister, two things are either totally incompetent to do a simple job, such as buying fuel from the stock exchange, or they had intent, and the idea is called corruption in this case. So, Minister, I will take this opportunity to give you a signal on my behalf, where I have described all the documents and information that I have come to know you to investigate him. I will also give it to the Prime Minister and the Committee on Anti-Corruption in Parliament, to see if the government's motives for zero tolerance for corruption are actually an tolerance to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u331	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u332	Dear Madam Presidential, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Gazhev, thank you for the signal. I make a commitment, of course, to order an inspection at the Ministry of Defence, including with regard to the prices you have presented. Accordingly, we will inform the competent authorities further if necessary, of course, but I will also inform you of the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u333	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions asked to the Minister of Culture Mr. Atanas Atanasov. The first question is from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev on the income policy of the employed in the cultural institutions. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, my question is simple. The delay in the response contributes to being more specific, as the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 was adopted in the meantime. What will be the income policy of the cultural institutes for this year? I mean, theaters, libraries, galleries, museums, etc.? I suppose you know the sectors related to social, spiritual development, these are culture, education, mass sport. They are also one of those that are most underestimated as a percentage of the gross domestic product in the budget, and this is 25 years back - 1997 - budget expenditure should be updated, the budget deficit should be eliminated. These are the sectors which were mostly cut off from expenditure, then part of the costs were recovered. In the education system, I would even say that a certain political consensus has been reached that we need to invest in teachers and the prepared and motivated teacher is the most important factor in the system. The same applies to the system of culture. I hope you realize that. I hope in your response I do not hear a single answer written by the Ministry of Culture and in your response I feel that you have a sense of mission to care for the system and the workers in it. As you had a sense of mission at Chitalishte level to repair it, to make it a spiritual center again, so that you have a sense of mission that, being the head of culture, you have to make sure that people in the culture system are supported, motivated that they can mostly assist together with teachers for spiritual development, for the upbringing of children. By the way, I'm going to take this opportunity to ask you one more question. The State Budget Act approved an additional 90 million. lv. for activities in the field of sport and culture in the school. Three or four years ago, 2018, a program was launched called the Cultural Institutes as an educational environment. It is very useful because, on the one hand, cultural institutes have much more visitors, and on the other hand, the educational environment of children and students is expanding and they have a contact with the specialists working in the cultural institutes, in libraries respectively they spend time creating their reading habits from a book, many, many are the benefits of this programme, which is of relatively small value, I think 2.5 million. Lev, it was the last one, but I might be wrong. Either way, with a very small fraction of that 90 million. lv. a very high result can be achieved if you are currently involved in the process of developing this programme and include cultural institutes. If you allow me to finish, I very much hope that in your response you will convince me that during the discussion of the budget, the budgetary procedure, you have fought, you have defended the funds for culture to be more because you have recorded in the coalition agreement 1%, but we have not seen growth from 0.4% to 1%. We didn't even see a minimum height. I do not know how you will achieve this in four years, since for the first year you do not have a step in increasing the percentage of gross domestic product. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u335	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for the answer to the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u336	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. Valchev! In the system of the Ministry of Culture performs 103 minor authorising officers, 51 of them are in the field of performing arts, 23 are schools of arts and culture, 10 are state museums and galleries. The Bulgarian National Film store, the underwater archaeology centre and the Cultural Center.......................................................................................... The only state cultural institute in the field of literary heritage is the National Library "St. St. Cyril and Methodius. They shall all implement a delegated budget system which allows the Director of the Institute concerned to dispose of the funds of the Institute independently and to determine the number of staff and the remuneration of the staff subject to the rules laid down in the relevant regulations. First, the Ministry of Culture took action for the state cultural institutes in the field of performing arts in 2020 and 2021 under the conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure the remuneration of those employed in the stage institutes, with the Order of the Council of Ministers introducing a subsidy for the payment of funds under an additional component. This component of each cultural institute operating in the field of performing arts is granted a subsidy until 31 March 2022 for remuneration and insurance contributions by an employer. The procedure for further extension of the operation of the additional component is ongoing until 30 June 2022. This year, new agreements are to be signed in the sectors of Musical and Performing Arts and Theatre. At present, there are coefficients in the contracts in force in determining the initial basic monthly remuneration by category of staff for positions depending on the level of education. In the event that the directors of the state performing institutes and the representatives of the trade unions agree to raise the odds, they may be higher. Secondly, state cultural institutes in the field of cultural heritage and library work at the end of January this year was held a meeting of the Board of Commerce, where the issue of the remuneration of those employed in the sector "Culture" was one of the main topics. According to the branch collective labour contract in the sector from 1 January 2022, minimum amounts for initial basic salary were introduced, which are bound by a coefficient to the minimum wage for the country, according to the official level for employees in the museums and art galleries of budget maintenance. According to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, the National Library. St. Cyril and Methodius is financed fully and primarily by the budget of the Ministry of Culture, also applying the delegated budget system. Thirdly, the adopted standards for state-sponsored activities with natural value indicators in the sector of Education, which include arts and culture schools, have estimated funds to increase the incomes of pedagogical specialists in the pre-school and school education system to a level of 125% compared to the national average salary. Fourth, for municipal and regional cultural institutes under the Public Libraries Act, municipal libraries are financed from the relevant municipal budget, regional libraries from funds from the budget of municipalities, whose territory is their headquarters, and the Chitalishte libraries are financed from the budget of the respective Chitalishte. With regard to the Chitalishtes, they are set to receive a subsidy from the state and municipal budget, which is agreed by the relevant municipal council, with funds for the Chitalishte activity being allocated by a commission appointed by the mayor of the municipality. The salaries of those employed in the cultural institutions of the municipality and regionals in this sector can be increased at the discretion of their directors. Each director of a municipal or regional cultural institute and chairman of a Chitalishte Board individually distributes the funds received from a state and municipal subsidy for overhead salaries and others. And one last thing. One of the priorities for the Ministry of Culture is the adoption of a strategy for Bulgarian culture, which will create conditions for development in the field of arts and achieve the status and remuneration of workers in the field of culture in the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u337	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you'll have a chance in the back to finish. Here you are, Mr. Valchev, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u338	Dear Minister, unfortunately, you did what I didn't want you to read what you were prepared for. I know very well who has a delegated budget, I know what the regulations are. I didn't hear your commitment, I didn't sense your sense of mission to talk about higher wages in the sector. What you said at the discretion of the directors, if they have money to deal with. Yeah, but they don't have any money. And they don't have money because they don't increase spending standards. I did not hear from you how you fought during the budgetary procedure to increase the funds for culture. There is a small increase in maintenance funds, but it will compensate for a quarter of the increased energy prices. If you do not know, go to a director who is currently budgeting, and see how they make a budget. They make the budget at the expense of increase energy costs at the expense of reducing other costs. They just don't have enough. Energy costs are 4 times higher after the compensations 3 times. At the same time, for a year and a half, we expect to have 20% inflation by the end of this year. Do you know what this means in the absence of income policy? 20% real impoverishment! In the last four years, the bad four years had over 60% real income growth, 8.5% was cumulative inflation, nearly 70% was growth. The only good thing you've said is that you're going to extend Order No 328 to June 30 because it still gives some certainty, but hopefully it will be by the end of the year. I very much hope that you will realise your role as Minister now, not as Chairman of the Chitalishte, and that you will protect the system and the workers in it, because it relies on you. You are currently the manager of an entire system in which people are most important. If you do not realize this role, you condemn to deepening the problems in cultural institutes with the inability to reproduce their composition, with continuing poverty in some ways. Leave what they have written to you, come out here in the second part and answer frankly and say: "I did not succeed, but I will commit for the next time, I will fight. I understand what is expected of me as Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u339	Thank you, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u340	Because what you read to us doesn't satisfy me. It does not primarily satisfy those employed in the sector and cultural institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u341	Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u342	Mr. Valchev, I would like to use the duplicate rather to answer the second question that you have decided to ask me now, at the moment, and rather to explain that there was a huge inaccuracies in it that I do not know whether you deliberately allowed, namely that, according to the coalition agreement, we almost should not have reached a budget of culture of 1% now, in this budget. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u343	For four years, I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u344	It's for four, so I don't know why the complaint is that now the budget of culture is 1%. Everyone would've wanted it that way. What I can say about the budget and about the fight, there was one that our team did great, and I think a 40% growth in one year is very little. In fact, this is unseen. Our budget for last year was about 240 million. BGN, now it's 100 million. lv. It is no longer considered in itself this part of the program that we have with the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Sport, where an additional over 40 million. lv. will actually go for cultural activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u345	Will the cultural institutes be included?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u346	Yes, they will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u347	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The next question is from the National Representative Stefan Shilev on the administrative capacity of the National Fund.................................................................................................. Here you go, Mr. Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u348	Thank you. Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The present question, which I would like to ask you, has been delayed over time for objective reasons - its place was perhaps about a month ago, but nevertheless. In the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, projects are included in the "Custody" section, worth almost 80 million. lv. Their development is the result of the work of a team of different municipalities, the non-governmental sector and the state. It will not be undeserved if it is said that this will be the most important cultural project in the next five years. To it, the comments from the European Commission are minimal or at least were, and their funding is secure. They are the hope of many cultural organisations to develop genuinely valuable proposals in the coming years. The question immediately arises: what happens after this project is approved as part of this plan? Is it a clumsy structure in which there are no reforms demanded by the European Commission, a structure with very questionable administrative capacity, that will be the managing authority of these funds? According to Finance Minister Vassilev, approval of the Plan is expected at the end of March or early April. Apparently, this is old information from a month and a half ago. It's expected further in time. On the other hand, from your Deputy Valkovski's statement, I understand that the staff in the Fund have been increased by the caretaker government, while new employees have also been appointed. In this regard, my question to you is: have the compulsory, provided for in the Law, competitions for the appointment of these employees? What are the actions and measures taken to improve the administrative capacity of the National Fund for Culture for professional, competent and transparent management of the funds for culture by the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan? What actions in this direction were taken by Minister of Service Minekov in the two governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u349	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u350	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Shilev, the Law is respected with regard to the appointment of employees in the National Fund of Culture. It does not require the appointment to be on a competitive basis, including the election of an executive director by law is by procedure. My position is that this needs to be changed, a competitive principle should be introduced for the selection of leadership positions, and through a very well-communicated public competition with clear requirements and rules. I believe that there are exceptional young people who can become part of the team of the National Fund of Culture, some of them I have already met. Personally, I believe that at the moment the Fund does not have the administrative capacity to manage the funds to be received as part of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan and, separately, the imperfect procedures for assessing the projects are also a fact. Part of the team of the Ministry, directly involved with the NFC portfolio, is working mainly on this to prepare an amendment to Regulation H-5, regulating the process of technical level both at technical level and at content level. The entire NFC regulatory framework must be synchronised with the requirements of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. The deadline for all of this is literally as soon as possible, as according to the indicative timetable the project will start in June 2022. Before this deadline we have the obligation to organise as quickly and qualitatively all the conditions as possible in order to set a sound and stable basis for work. The actions taken during the mandate of the Minister of Service Mr. Minekov are the appointment of a new CEO, a new composition of the Board of Directors and an increase in the state number of the Fund from 5 to 11 stats, unfortunately, almost none of them are filled simply because they are found on a minimum wage. Maybe I think one is the number that's full.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u351	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Shilev, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u352	Dear Madam Chairman of the Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your honest answer. I'd like to ask you something else. Since I understand that indeed the National Fund of Culture does not have the necessary capacity and urgent measures must be taken, that is, the minister of the service what he has done is to appoint a new CEO, a new composition, and in fact you asked him for his resignation. I mean, to understand that Mr. Minekov didn't do anything, as far as I understand, to prepare for the National Fund of Culture to make use of these funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which is really sad because I remember that he was dealing with a lot of other things during the caretaker government. What I had as a preparation to ask as questions, in fact you and additionally answered them that there is not enough capacity, that is, there are neither internal legal documents that are developed and are new, nor there is any change or at least a prepared change in the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, that is, all of this is yet to be done. I hope you can really mobilise your ministry so that we can welcome and have no losses in culture from the National Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u353	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u354	Mr. Shilev, I would just like to clarify one thing that all these problems that you have clearly exposed have been working very hard for over a month and a half, maybe two months. I knew when I asked for the resignation of the Governing Council that it would not be easy at all, but we are fully aware of how much responsibility this fund has to bear with the funds it will absorb, and it is extremely important to us that the processes are clear with clear criteria. For us, one of the greatest priorities is for this fund to restore trust in it and everyone to know that this huge opportunity for the people of culture will be clean and everyone will be able to take advantage of it by the rules. As far as Mr. Minekov is concerned, I cannot speak on his behalf, but I know that the term of office of the Governing Council has simply expired at the end, but it is important for me when a new Governing Council is elected, including when there are already amendments to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, that the new Governing Council should be absolutely unapproachable, that is, there is no doubt that these people are chosen according to clear and transparent criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u355	Thanks for the tunic, Mr. Atanasov. The next question to which we are going is from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov on the completion of the repair of the Art Gallery in Kyustendil. Here you are, Mr. Kletchkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u356	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Minister, the Art Gallery "Vladimir Dimitrov" was built and opened in Kyustendil in 1972 on the occasion of the 90th anniversary of the birth of the great artist. It is among the 100 national tourist sites of Bulgaria. In 1980 an author's team developed a project to expand the built and since 1981 began construction works which were completed only after 2000. Currently, the gallery offers only one third of the exhibition halls, as the other two thirds are unfinished. The gallery owns the main and largest collection of the works of Vladimir Dimitrov the Master, arranged in a permanent exhibition. Today there are stored 3180 works by 585 authors, of which 1357 paintings are of the Master. The gallery fund is divided into several sections: Kyustendilian artists, artists from the country, ancient, medieval and Renaissance art, foreign art. It should be noted that in Kyustendil were born and created other great Bulgarian artists - Stoyan Venev, Nikola Mirchev, Asen Vassilev and perhaps more than 100, with whom Kyustendil is proud. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: when will the Ministry of Culture plan financial resources in its budget for the completion of this great temple of Bulgarian culture? I believe that because of the great Vladimir Dimitrov, the Master, whom we recently celebrated 140 years of his birth, the state must do everything possible to finally complete the art gallery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u357	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u358	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Klechkov, in connection with the question you have received regarding the completion of the repair of the Art Gallery "Vladimir Dimitrov "The Master" in the town of Kyustendil I inform you the following: museums and art galleries are led in administrative organizational manner by the mayor of the municipality or the owner, with the Ministry of Culture providing only methodological guidance under the Cultural Heritage Act. Art Gallery Vladimir Dimitrov is a municipal cultural institute and an independent legal person of budget support for Kyustendil Municipality. A minor officer with a budget according to a decision of the Municipal Council of the city of Kyustendil. The Ministry of Culture presents targeted financial support for carrying out specialized conservation restoration activities for real cultural values under the Programme "Conservation of real-estate cultural heritage" and established rules for the selection of sites and the definition of activities for the provision of targeted financial support in the field of conservation and restoration of real-estate cultural values. Given that the building of the Art Gallery "Vladimir Dimitrov" is municipal property and does not have the status of real estate cultural value, the Ministry of Culture has no legal basis to provide financing for the completion of the repair activities and the funds should be provided by Kyustendil Municipality, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u359	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kletchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u360	Dear Minister, you are absolutely right that in this way you answer, because it is really municipal property, but agree with the fact that a small municipality, such as Kyustendil, which now probably has about 30.32 thousand people, could hardly deal with such an important issue and if, for example, the Ministry of Culture through its mechanisms did not come up with ways and cause to be finished, I do not see how we could finish this temple of our culture. However, I would also like to say a few words about the fact that we do not have the means to complete something significant for Bulgarian culture and the state should not partner and finance transsexual photo sessions in paintings by Vladimir Dimitrov the Master. I do not want to make an advertisement and mention the names of those who provoked the Bulgarian society, I want to be properly understood. I am not opposed to the views of a group and community, but the state should not allow them to make fun of the Master's work, which is carried through their paintings of a whole other spirituality of Bulgarian history. The history of artistic art is what it is, and we don't have to scandalize it just to become an artist and photographer popular through an event in the news. As a modern modern society living in the 21st century, we must still have some internal moral norms to preserve the authentic spirit and message of Bulgarian art. I know that you have nothing to do with what happened, because everything we talk about is prepared and financed far before you become Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u361	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. The next question is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev about placing the coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria on the building of the National Assembly in the square of Knyaz Alexander I Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u362	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we thought we'd ask you the question in writing first, but since we know what you would say, we thought it'd be more appropriate to put it here in this room. 33 years have passed, colleagues, since 1989 Sofia is a wonderful European capital, but if our minister, who is also a modern European, comes to visit another Minister of Culture and he spends it in the center of Sofia, will see the old communist crest of the building of the former Party House and if you are asked what it is, you will say: well something has not been changed as it should be and, by the way, the war in Ukraine, the use of old symbols from the Soviet Union, the situation becomes even more inadequate and even stranger. This question I have put to two Presidents of the National Assembly of GERB and they both said: but yes, we will fix it, we will solve it, and so we are 33 years in this situation. I also gave Mr. Minekov the topic, he was involved, but he was looking for some very expensive and complicated solution. I urge you to not tell us now that this is a building which is public-state property, not to tell us the parliament's leadership to decide it, because, see, they have no competence to what about the building, which is a monument of culture, and I suggest the following: The law on the crest of the Republic of Bulgaria is categorical at the entrance of each official building should be complexed the contemporary crest of the Republic of Bulgaria. That's the word word for word. So, Mr. Minister, instead of telling me that you have no competence, as with colleagues from GERB for many years now we have been having this conversation, give a cheap, reasonable idea So when official delegations come to you and you walk them into the center of Sofia, don't wonder what to explain to them when investors come, who convince that Bulgaria is a wonderful European place, no doubt to put their money into it and not to ask: what are these things, what do they mean, do they matter, what age they are, why they are standing in official buildings in Bulgaria? So I ask you to look wider than the narrow reading of this issue and as a modern European to help us to resolve it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u363	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u364	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Ganev, I will skip the paragraphs where the legal case is explained. I can only tell you that, according to paragraph only the Final Provisions of the Crest Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the implementation of the Law is entrusted to the Council of Ministers. I can tell you that the Ministry of Culture will assist in the coordination procedure when presenting the Project for placing the coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Western facade of the National Assembly building. What's up to us, we'll do it. I'm not an economist, I don't know what the cheapest and fastest way to do this, but I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u365	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u366	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You are part of the Council of Ministers and I urge you to help with an idea decision on how to make this happen. Because if we wait for the leadership of the National Assembly, given that these are wonderful colleagues, but in this area they do not have the necessary competence, you will be very useful. And why did I call you to be a cheap and reasonable decision? Because Mr. Minekov was explaining to me how it had to be made out of some special kind of stone and so on and so forth. You see, he's no longer a minister, the matter is not resolved. I mean, you don't have to think of any complicated ways that just take the decision away in time. I call on you as part of the Council of Ministers and as a person with whom we have a common interest, with you and with the whole National Assembly to validate Bulgaria's image as a European capital. Because, fellow Members, what is our goal to explain to more and more people how they should come to invest their money in our country? In this situation, there shouldn't be something so disturbing, something that talks about the past, something to ask us questions that we can't answer. So, Mr. Minister, I personally rely on you, and that is why my question is oral, to help with an idea, with a concrete proposal, so that the Council of Ministers and then the Parliament will take measures to implement the Crest Act. Because this is exactly where I've seen many foreign delegations that are greeted with red carpets, looked at when the light is good, to the place of the old communist crest that is still standing there, and asked very strange questions that we've tried to give answers to, but they don't sound serious, they don't sound adequate. So this is a question that many people didn't solve, and that gives you a chance, you and this government, to solve them. It's imperative that we solve them, so I'm really counting on you. This may seem, on the one hand, a question that is logical not to exist long ago, but you see that it is not. Everyone is............ but no one has solved it. So I'm really counting on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u367	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next question is from the MP Stoyan Taslakov about the state of the underground wealth reserves in the locality of Suhata vada. Here you are, Mr. Taslakov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, under the Underground Treasures Act you are responsible for keeping the National Balance of Stocks of Underground Treasures, which are exclusive government property. All changes should be entered by you periodically in this balance. The site of the village of Joakim Gruevo was registered with precisely established stocks in this balance, but during the last year and a half of the field was carried out a massive illegal and unauthorised extraction of the ballast, disguised in the form of a girder building. The company has hauled hundreds of trucks loaded with ballast, which can be found in a place where there is a huge crater, which has nothing to do with a fisherman, neither in its shape nor in its size, nor in its depth. My question to you is: as a senior civil servant responsible for the National Balance of Stocks, please answer me when the current state of these stocks will be reflected in the specified locality, will it be appointed and within what time a geological check will be made to determine what stocks were in this locality prior to the intervention of the company in my question and how much have they decreased after the illegal extraction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u369	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Minister Nikolov, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Taslakov, in answer to your question about the state of the underground wealth reserves, the suha vada site to Joakim Gruevo after illegal extraction of the ballast from the field, I would like to inform you of the following: stocks and resources from the ballast, fit for the production of concrete, building solutions, road bases in the locality of Suha vada are recorded on the National Balance Statement of Stocks and Resources on the basis of the established Protocol No 26 of 2007 of the Specialized Expert Commission. Commercial opening No 303 since 2009 was issued for the field. An application was subsequently submitted for the grant of a concession for extraction from the field. At the moment, the proceedings under the concession granted for the extraction of underground wealth from the site of the suhata vada are being carried out because the applicant is not confirming its interest in granting it a concession for extraction, which is a prerequisite for termination of the relevant procedure under art. 29, para. 3 from ZID to the Law on Natural Treasures. In accordance with the competence of the Ministry of Energy, it should be borne in mind that the National Balance of Stocks, the resources of underground riches are produced annually, according to data on the status and modification of the stocks and resources provided by the public contractors, on the relevant geological surveys of the holders for the authorisation of search and investigation, or on a study by the concessionaires. By 31 January of the current year, annual geological reports shall be submitted for the modification and state of the reserves and resources, the fields of underground wealth which occurred as a result of geological and extraction works carried out in the previous year. The Ministry of Energy and, in particular, the Minister confirms the corresponding balance of stocks, fields of underground wealth and brings it annually to the Council of Ministers by 30 April for information. In view of the above, and in view of the fact that no concession has been granted at present for the extraction of underground wealth from the locality of Suhata vada, there are no geological reports presented to change the state of stocks and resources in the Ministry of Energy. There has been no change in the quantities of underground wealth since the registration of the property so far. The Ministry of Energy has carried out a verification that stocks at the site have been established after examining the geological report on the results of a detailed study of river ballast, suitable for production for sands, gravel, building solutions, concretes for the production of ballast for road bases. The geological report and the materials to it are imported from the concrete elements plant Ltd....Striama village, Plovdiv district. It was found that an on-the-spot check carried out on 31 July 2020 was disrupted. For violations property is issued by Municipality of Stamboliyski building permission, for property UPI... 016032 fish farming. The authorisation entered into force on 30 March 2020. After consulting specialized maps and registers under the Law on Underground Treasures, which are maintained by the Ministry of Energy, it is found that the majority of violations of the relevant inspection area falls within the territory of a registered field of underground wealth under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Underground Treasures. Building materials, sands and gravel, filler of concrete with the name "Suha Vada." By letter dated February 2021 from the Basin Directorate of the East-West Sea Region, an opinion on eligibility was requested under art. 155, para. 1, t. 23 of the Water Act for an investment proposal "Fishernik" in a property with No 016134 village of Joakim Gruevo, Stamboliiski municipality, Plovdiv district. In this regard, the Ministry of Energy by letter dated March 2021 expressed to the Director of the Swimming Directorate and the Director of the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters (RIEW), a negative opinion and considered the implementation of the investment proposal of Ribarnik a fisher. The actual situation and findings of the checks have been notified by the Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, the Mayor of Stamboliiski Municipality, the Regional Governor of Plovdiv District and the Director of the Basin Directorate of the East-Belmore Region. The Ministry of Energy does not have information about the amount of illegally seized wealth. Such information should be sought by the authority that issued a building permit "Stamboliyski Municipality." Current stock status will be reflected after receipt of information regarding the building permit issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u371	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Taslakov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u372	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, as you said, the Ministry of Energy does not have real data on what is happening near the village of Joakim Gruevo. I've been there, and I've seen the situation. Stamboliiski Municipality has issued a building permit in violation of the Underground Treasures Act and I highly doubt that they will do a quality check and will check themselves... what resources of this locality have been exported. So what I would like to advise you is to appoint a check because there is now a huge crater and perhaps hundreds of tons of underground riches of the Bulgarian state have been exported, and someone has sold them and become very rich by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u373	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Taslakov, I would just once again like to confirm to you that the Ministry of Energy by an official letter dated March 2021 expressed its position, which is a negative opinion. Given that there is a corresponding concession nearby, what I can only do is order further verification. In this case, the problem is actually that this request is for a concession that is not effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-11.u375	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, with this, all three hours of parliamentary control has passed. [[Heckling]] I'm sorry, Mr. Kulensky, your question will remain perhaps for the next parliamentary control. Have a good rest, guys. The next National Assembly meeting will be held on 16 March 2022 on an additional agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
