ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u1	134 registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I am telling you, honourable Members, that the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria: I. On the basis of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, the National Assembly shall inform that a joint pilot training will take place in which they will participate: The United States Naval Forces Airplanes and Servicemen; The United Kingdom of the Netherlands Air Force is a member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Air Force. The flight training is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military action conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. II. Notifies the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised in an international exercise in the Hellenic Republic to take part a formation of the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and soldiers and military equipment. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. The notifications were received on 25 May 2022 with input numbers 47-203-09-56 and 57, respectively, and were submitted to the Defence Committee. With this, we move to item one of the agenda of the day, namely: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. A report from the Committee on the Environment and Waters for a second vote has come in. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u2	The report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act No 47-102-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021, adopted in the first vote on 26 January 2022. "Renewal and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, after the words "Art." The following shall be added to the list: 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I open the discussion on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1 to 7. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am speaking on the name of the Bill to introduce you to some statistics. The bill was tabled by the Council of Ministers on 3 December 2021. Do you remember this date? Yes, that's right, the day of the forty-seventh National Assembly. What does that mean? It means that the Bill was so urgent that it was submitted on the day of the National Assembly's constitution. On 26 January 2022, the bill was adopted in the first vote in the Chamber. During the debates, Minister Sandov urged the MPs to shorten the deadline between the first and second voting of the minimum, arguing that the aim of the bill is to drop three criminal procedures against Bulgaria in the sector. And in response to the minister, instead of reducing the deadline to the minimum, MPs from the ruling coalition extended it twice and made it as long as possible. But that's not all. After numerous peripets, several working groups, sharp coalition controversy, six months later this bill was tabled for a second vote in the Chamber. Six months, guys! For six months, this bill was put on corpses and waited for its stellar moment to be taken out of the coalition bargaining wheel, and it was supposed to be so urgent, it was so important! He had to stop three penal procedures! The truth is, colleagues, that the stumbling block of this bill is not harmonisation with European legislation, but a simple addition to the Bill prepared by the government of GERB And now we're going to see the outcome, figure out what the cost of accepting or rejecting the two-station production is. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u5	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u6	I am saying all this, colleagues, because last week a colleague from "We are continuing the Change" with a edifying tone from the stands of the National Assembly accused GERB directly as culprits for all criminal procedures and for the state of the environment. My esteemed colleague said that we from GERB have done nothing in terms of environmental protection. Then I couldn't answer her because she did it in the form of a line, but now I'll explain. With regard to the regulations, colleagues, we have always maintained the Bulgarian legislation in line with the European legislation within the deadlines set by the European Commission. Moreover, in some cases, for example, imports of waste for recovery, Bulgarian legislation is much stricter than European legislation. Since my time is limited, if you give me the opportunity, I will give full information about what GERB has done. But let's see what the Change has done in six months. In six months of final adopted bills, zero, despite urgency and criminal procedures, with the exception of, of course, the so important act, the transfer of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Ministry of Metropolitan Science to the MoEW. Dear colleagues, you do not yet have an active Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Negotiating the new Operational Program is nowhere. New Bills - Zero; Investments in the Environment Sector - Zero. That's what the Change has done, colleagues, for six months. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u7	And thank you, Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? Stefan Shilev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I fully agree with Mr. Shishkov's statement, but because, as he said, the time is not enough, I would like to give him an opportunity to emphasise what GERB has done. Why? Because we said, one year, zero. So it's nice to see the difference what was made against this zero, what was done in the previous 10 years, because it's really not 12. Bulgarian citizens need to know that. They need to know exactly what has been done. Because there are people who don't remember what it was and how it went our way, they don't remember any of what it was, and it actually saves lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u9	Is there a second line? There's no second line, so, Mr. Shishkov, come on in for a douche. Then Alexander Dunchev for procedure and Emil Georgiev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In addition to my speech, I would like to provide a little more information, as I was called by my colleague Shilev, so that colleagues from the Change can know exactly what GERB has done in recent years. With legislative changes, we have created a single national control body for dams, colleagues. We have introduced clear responsibilities for owners and operators and the opportunity for the state to take over the ownership and management of those for whom municipalities have no opportunity to care. We have adopted several amendments to the Law on Air Cleanliness, with which we set requirements for the quality of solid fuels for domestic heating. We have clearly distinguished the responsibilities of all institutions for protecting air quality. We have introduced mandatory real-time video surveillance to operators of landfills and combustion plants for the production of energy from solid fuels and biomass, as well as solid fines for non-compliance with the legal requirements. We have introduced a legislative obligation for all waste incineration plants, including experimental ones, to go through the worst possible environmental procedure, namely EIA. Large investment was also made in the sector. 57 treatment plants were built and upgraded, with 24 more in progress. Only for the first programming period 2007 - 2013, colleagues, more than 2600 km of water network were built, probably more will be reported for the next programming period. 52 regional waste management systems were also built. The largest waste processing plant in the Balkans works in Sofia. 120 landfills were closed. Contracts were signed for the construction of 53 green waste composting plants, 45 regional pre-treatment facilities and four anaerobic degradation plants covering nearly 2.5 million. Souls. By the way, this week we found one such installation with Mr. Minister in Karlovo a wonderful facility. A National Coordination Centre in the Ministry of Environment and Water was established for stricter control, better awareness and risk prevention. And this, fellow Members, is a very small part of what has been done in the sector of Environment and Environment by GERB. And blaming others for not having done anything about the environment, and at the same time not adopting a single regulatory act concerning the sector, that, my fellow Members, is a higher form of hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Alexander Dunchev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u12	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Before we get to § 8, 9 and 13, I just wanted to suggest that they be... I see that we will discuss them separately, but also to vote on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, as it is said............................................................................................................................................................... and I will be involved for a speech to speak later to speak later to be involved when we will when we will when we will to come to come to speak....................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u13	Okay, we'll get to those paragraphs. For the moment, we are under the name and paragraphs 1 through 7. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I refer to the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, not only as a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Water, but also as a representative of the first environmental organisation in Bulgaria. We from the Eco-Voices have repeatedly proved that in our actions we are guided by fundamental principles laid down in our history principles, above all, with the preservation of Bulgarian nature. In this regard, you cannot expect from me and my colleagues not to be concerned about the protection of Bulgarian nature. This is what we have been doing since the day of our foundation, notice, 8 March 1988. But unlike other conservationists, we are putting man in the center of nature with his needs, as well as national interests, and then there are the different animal species. That is why I stand behind the single court proceedings in appeal against national investment projects. I will argue with examples relating to delays in such projects appealed at second instance on the pretext that environmental protection is being taken care of. And I start with the examples. For this reason, they were stopped for years as follows: - the two-year speed section of Burgas Sunny Beach; - by three years the speed segment from Montana to Vidin, notice because of the population of bluebirds; - with two years of bypass connection between the highway "Maritsa" and the highway "Trakia" at the road hub Fruity. There was implemented a corruption scheme by blackmailing for withdrawal of a complaint against several thousand euros; - the gasification of Zlatitsa and Pirdop, where another pishman ecologist requested 200,000. EUR to withdraw the appeal to the second instance, and then fell, of course, into the trap of the law enforcement authorities; - and I come to the delayed by about five years of construction of the highway of Struma in the Kresna Gorge region, where there are crosses of perished between 15 km and every kilometer. What about the tunnel under Shipka? A similar drama is likely to happen with the project for the tunnel under Petrohan. And so far I can point to at least ten more examples of conscious delays in investment projects of national importance at second instance. These are my arguments, and I support the one-stop appeal. Mr. Shishkov, about hypocrisy and special attitude towards environmental protection. I didn't come out here to blame anyone, but it's a fact that there's been huge environmental damage. I will point out a few because you mentioned a particular attitude towards the dams. You had such a special attitude towards the dams that another 500 million were being sought. BGN, which had to go for dam renovations. From the many dams of thousands, it turns out that only ten were sanitized. Another time from this tribune I mentioned the tire-burning workshop in Vidin municipality. I'll also mention the hotel's support wall near Aleppu. I can give more examples, examples, examples. So we need to make every effort for the strategic sites of national importance, only one-instant proceedings in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to Emil Georgiev? I won't. Mr. Ruschev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u16	Mr. Chairman, thank you. For those of you who still believe in fairy tale heroes and the capacity of the governing coalition, I will tell you in half about the bill that we will now vote on. In general, it offers absolutely nothing but a sanitization of the problems left by the previous government, but does not build in any way for the good of the nature of Bulgaria. We are witnessing how the governing coalition is trying to please the Brussels officials by transposing European law without being interested in the problems of Bulgarian nature. What happened to the management plans for the protected areas, the infrastructure in the water sector aimed at improving the quality of drinking water and reducing losses that are 70% in places? What happened to the Black Sea concession, which according to the coalition government should be reconsidered? What happened to the Bulgarian forests, waters, nature and air? Nothing! It's more than the old one, because this bill hasn't even been written by you. With this bill, nothing will change, although you call yourself Change. It is time to wake up and realize that you do not belong in the management of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. Are there any lines to Ivo Ruschev? Here you are, Mr. Gutsanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A large rehearsal under this law began and again political speeches. Dear colleague, what we want is to ensure the protection of the environment - an essential value for the Bulgarian Socialist Party! It is certainly and clearly what needs to be done. But along with that, we also want to speed up the big, strategic infrastructure sites for our country! Is it normal for how many years the highway can no longer be made to Greece?! Is it normal not to be able to make a Black Sea Highway?! Is it normal to build large port facilities in neighbouring Greece? It is clear that these cargoes must pass most likely through Bulgaria if we manage to make this highway to reach Western Europe, or will we be surrounded?! Because there's no empty space in the economy, the money is looking for where to go and how to go, the cargo is looking for where to go and how to go! The question is: will we be able to attract them to this happen through Bulgaria or not? And here the balance must be found in the first place, mandatory environmental protection, but along with this not delaying all such important infrastructure sites for our country if we want to move forward! And this is what we need to do today, not again comment on who is who what, who did what and how he did with the eulogy earlier from the Political Party GERB to what you spoke! Let's concentrate and make a working law based on what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? No. Mr. Ruschev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u20	Mr. Gutsanov, you're talking about the two-in-a-day appeal that we at the age will not support precisely for the reasons that you have just pointed out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, we will vote on all the texts and the name of the Bill, which were read by Mr. Genov, the name is by importer, § 1 is by importer with the corresponding addition, which was read by Mr. Genov, and paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, which are also by importer. Please, voting mode. They voted 145 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Genov. Let's continue with the report. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u22	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. Meanwhile, there has been a request for withdrawal of the signatures of this proposal by the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev and Petar Marinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2 the words "the stand or the decision under para. The environmental assessment position or the decision to carry out or not to carry out an environmental assessment shall be replaced by the one referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2. In para. 3 the words "the stand or the decision under para. The environmental assessment position or the decision to carry out or not to carry out an environmental assessment shall be replaced by the one referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) and shall be replaced by the one referred to in point (b) of Article 2 (1) and shall be replaced by the one referred to in point (c) of Article 2 (1) and shall be replaced by the one referred to in point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. There has been a request for withdrawal of the signatures here is a proposal from Ivaylo Mirchev from this proposal of the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev and Petar Marinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Let's stop here. I'm opening the discussion, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Miroslava Petrova. For the procedure Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join in the procedure of my colleague Dunchev because, in practice, the way the report is presented, the opportunity of the MPs to vote on the proposal of an importer is taken away, and this proposal is extremely important, and it is actually the apple of the discord of this bill. And taking away this opportunity, it will not become clear what the will of the Members of the National Assembly is, because we should not ignore the fact that no few opinions have been received on the National Assembly's website by NGOs that support this proposal. Such are the associations of Balkanka, other non-governmental organizations of 30 in number, www.afbulgaria, Environmental Association for the Land and Greenpeace, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Veselin Paskalev and of course there are opposite opinions from the Regional Ministry and the Bulgarian Wind Energy Association. My proposal is slightly different from that of my colleague Dunchev because he suggested that the whole text, as by importer, be voted on, and I suggest that the vote be voted on. 1 et c. 2 anbloc, as on the Commission, etc. 3 which foresees the removal of para. 4 and 5 to be voted separately, i.e. to have two votes on this bill in order to make it clear what the will of the Members of the National Assembly is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Here you are, Mrs. Petrova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! I would like, in connection with § 8 and my opportunity to make a statement in art. 88, para. 5, first of all, I would like to give her a brief motivation in view of the following. We are looking for a higher level of institutional security by the Supreme Administrative Court through this editing. Accordingly, the proposed proposal provides that the complaints under art. 88, para. 5 in this case will be examined categorically by the Supreme Administrative Court, which will ensure that they will not be dealt with by the Administrative Court [[noise and lines]] , which practice, gentlemen, exists in some cases so far. That is, we are making it possible in this version to ensure that such cases will no longer be admitted and that, accordingly, we will be able to achieve at this time a higher level of institutional security by the Supreme Administrative Court. The edit I propose is: art. 88, para. The 5th sentence is first amended as follows: The complaints under para. 4 shall be examined by the Supreme Administrative Court and the proceedings shall be concluded within six months of their submission. The same after that and under § 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Just a moment, please. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Are there any other lines, colleagues? For a line someone? I won't. For a statement, Mr. Panev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the return of the two-installed EIA proceedings is extremely important for the rule of law in Bulgaria, however, it is not good to stop strategically important projects for the state within the next few years, I would like to make editorial proposals under paragraphs 8, 9 and 13, namely: Paragraph 8 of Article 8 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L Paragraph 9, in art. 93, para. 10 after the words supplied by 1 July 2024 and submitted by 1 July 2024. And § 13, art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 9 after the words supplied by 1 July 2024 and submitted by 1 July 2024.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u31	Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Krum Zarkov for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The history of this debate is turbulent and relatively long, although for the most part of our transition, there have always been two instances on these issues. A few years ago GERB decided to shorten this. They met a serious resistance from the then opposition in the face of the BSP, met a resistance and the presidency had a veto of major changes in the AKK, but they passed their idea. Today, this debate continues because the coalition left bravely and somewhere along the way began to hesitate. And this hesitation continues now, at this point, with the proposals that have been made. Why is the second instance important? This isn't some fetish. Allow me in two words to explain why it is extremely important. The second instance is not a second check in the case of the same facts, it is a cassation. The cassation proceedings aim to unify the application of the law, it does not look at the facts.. They have already been verified by the first instance. It sees whether all apply the same order, whether law is applied in the same way. When you leave without cassation such a question, then the battle becomes a scary one. Some projects pass, others do not pass, one composition so, another more so. You realize the risk this creates, on the one hand. On the other hand, the very concept of a large project is entirely in the discussion of the Council of Ministers, which on this issue can ultimately decide who will go along this line and who else. This is also not the right approach for a rule of law. That is why the Council of Ministers did the right thing in the beginning and submitted the proposal as it is. We are not even talking about change here, we are talking about a simple return to normality. The argument that this, you see, stops and largely slows down production is also not valid. In Bulgaria, with all its share splinters, there is one thing in the justice system, which at least according to the assessments of our international partners and observers, and the people are going. The administrative process is a quick process in Bulgaria. I bothered to look at the cashiers when they were on EIA, and none of them were for more than six months. And here we are talking about a six-month period for projects that, by definition, last for years and whose possible consequences on the natural environment are very often irreversible Not to say that we can make efforts as legislators and make shorter deadlines. For example, to rule the court within three months. That way he'll have to organize and keep that order. Why is this retreat from a clearly stated position I do not understand? Here I also distance myself from the speech made by a colleague from my parliamentary group. I will vote on the bill as it was tabled by the Council of Ministers, because that is what I have been defending for the last five years when I was here. There is a common trend that this debate is part of. Lately, and it's been very clearly visible in the last 10 years, but I don't know why we don't start changing it now. Recently, environmentalists are obstacles to growth. The defenders are the conduits of foreign interests. Syndicates and strikers are blackmailers. So anyone who stands against big capital, against pharaoh projects, for big profits, is a pole in the wheel of development?! Well, why, if so, honourable Members, why, in the most developed countries, those who hold the largest and most sustainable growth, precisely those organisations, and trade unions, political and others, are the most protected? Why in the developed world are we talking about sustainable development and not just a project after the project? Why does this complex concept, which requires that its social dimensions and its effect on the environment are taken into account in each project, why are these countries moving forward, and we, who for 30 years are chopping into social rights and environmental rights, our growth, why don't people feel it?! Think about it. Think about it! Investments are useful and important roads need to be, but must be, first, lawful, and second, made in a way in which people really benefit, not those who make them. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] Last word, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. In the coalition agreement there are two points that are relevant to this issue in the General priorities in the field. One is to close the penalty procedures, I hope we do that. The other is strict control over the implementation of legislation in this area. Tell me, how do we exercise strict control over the legislation of this area when we stop people from going to court?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The protection of the nature of Bulgaria is a long-standing cause of civil society, not of the conservation, not of the protection of the free civil society, which has for many years defended it with indisputable success thanks to the bordering to zero will, but often totally gay, dictated by other interests of the governing organization, which, I truly regret, has caused great damage to the Bulgarian nature and literally hurt it in some cases irreversible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u35	You're not listening carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u36	And because I am listening very carefully indeed, I would like to draw your attention to the following: what was missing at the moment of the Bulgarian civil society in order to protect the nature of Bulgaria? He lacked free, uncorrupted institutions, which today he tried to win through the coalition that is currently ruling the country, the still conquered state that we are pulling away from what has been happening to her up until now. [[Comments and shouts by GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] So it's really a complicated process, but unfortunately for you gentlemen, completely irreversible and the state will soon not be conquered, and nature will get its protection, but meaningfully, through meaningful regulations that move in a package, not just something that we have caught and pulled out of our hat and solved all our problems. [[(Replying and shouting from GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo!]] It will be! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Zarkov, I strongly agree with you. The real conservationists in Bulgaria, whether they are left, center and right, are not against investment projects. Against investment projects are the so-called pishman ecologists to forgive me the colleagues from the DPS that I use an expression that is inherent to them, they appeal to investment projects. Shall I give you more examples? How to talk about Zlatitsa and Pirdop when at second instance a so-called ecologist asked for 200,000. The Bypass of Fruity?! In this room we are two people who are proud to say that we have prevented the so-called hostel wall to Aleppu, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and as immodest as it may sound, me and my team. How, then, can we reason that we are against investment projects? No, you have to defend projects that are of national importance, but to throw a stain on people who really fight for nature is not correct. By the way, in the proposal Mr. Panev made, there is also a resonant in it. [[Heckling]] After a certain period, only one-instant production should be introduced. I'm definitely about the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Third line, please, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will support the statement of Mr. Zarkov, Mrs. Petrova and the proposal of Alexander Dunchev to vote on the original text of the drafter. Then I expect to vote separately § 8, t. 3, § 9 and § 13, p. Two of the ZIDs. I would like to remind you of the opinion that a professor from the European University Institute has sent us in relation to this second instance, how important it is, and that if we support the unitary proceedings, we will violate the principles of the fundamental treaties of the European Union. This will create a real risk and a great risk of financial corrections by the European Commission for major infrastructure projects, we will not see a six-month delay, but much longer than is necessary from these six months. The proposed changes from 2017 limited the right of citizens and their organisations to access justice; reduced the possibility of judicial review; reduced the opportunities for environmental protection. These amendments are extremely harmful because they also violated the implementation of the Orhu Convention, which ensures that in Bulgaria persons exercising their rights in accordance with the provisions of this Convention will not be punished, persecuted or disturbed in any way for their activities. This means that citizens cannot fulfil their rights. Last but not least, I would like to remind you that multi-stational proceedings have been introduced in the Principality of Bulgaria as a response to their lack in the law of the Ottoman Empire and are the only way to ensure justice and reduce corruption in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear replicators, thank you for your lines. I will not go into details of the questions you have raised, they are too common. Once again, there were assessments of who was real and who wasn't real. Everyone has a right to their own judgment. The same goes for politicians who are real and who are not real. There are many criteria, but I will mention only one: when you are ruling, you do what you have stated and defended as opposition. It's a criterion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Guys, are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u44	Mr. Chairman, we are looking at a bill that once again has brought great discord to the ruling coalition. On the one hand, Mr. Gutsanov just replicated my colleague's speech from the age and started talking about how there should be an appeal at an instance. That's exactly what we're here for, Mr. Gutsanov. I don't know what you've learned, what you've heard, but we're about it. However, the interesting thing is what you said and confirmed I expected that it would most likely be monolith of your group. We are currently hearing quite other tracts from another part of your parliamentary group. I don't want to think about what's on the other side of your coalition as a whole that governs us. It is not normal, however, what Mr. Zarkov said just now to do what as an opposition you have accepted. I would just like to recall that a few days ago there was a vote on the VAT reduction bill, something that you of the BSP have been putting into this House for years as opposition and has not been accepted for years. In this House days ago, your group abstained and failed to fulfill one of its fundamental promises to its voters. So I'm not surprised what's going on right now. The bad thing, however, is that what you want to restore, which GERB has changed, and it is at one instance, for us it is not normal, because really the infrastructure changes and problems that there are, because these changes and problems are not from yesterday. The roundabout and what is explained is that there really are some.. I do not want to offend anyone, but it is public opinion that some green Taliban who destroy and slow down and destroy such infrastructure changes that would help at least partly the poorest areas in the European Union, which are the huge part of our territory, to develop only because a group of people gets grants from other countries so that they can explain how green they are. Yes, I believe in the Bulgarian court. Yes, I believe that at first instance the court can decide whether there is a reason to stop a project or not. At second instance, I don't think that much will change except that it will allow for more racketeering than so-called green, self-declared green. They are also here, parliamentary represented, there are also here, in the Chamber, specific people. Besides counting mosquitoes for millions, we'll be doing what we're watching right now. Yes, it is extremely important to develop infrastructure changes and projects that are not being made for years because of slowing down from the first, second instance. Yes, ecology must be safeguarded and projects must be respected, but in the first instance it could be proven everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today a very important bill is voted at second reading, not because someone requires it, but because it can guarantee the country's more adequate action in industrial accidents, greater protection from certain environmentally harmful chemicals and what is actually the subject of criminal procedures. By the way, the penalty procedures are 18, which in itself is a clear enough sign. They are the legacy of the management of GERB, which no matter how much it boasts of poured concrete, because in fact this is what the operational programs on the environment do, we have to admit it. The main component has been going for concrete during these years. It is good for Bulgarian citizens to know that. Of these 18 procedures, in fact, there are already 17. One has been downloaded; for the other two the conditions are met and we expect only a pronunciation of the European College; for the other three we expect this bill to pass, to be supported by you, then to draw up in the Ministry of Environment and Water the corresponding two regulations in order to meet this condition. For another penal procedure, there is a bill tabled, which passed at first reading in plenary last week, which I hope will be completed very soon and this procedure will also be closed. There's at least a few more work to be done. In the meantime, however, the Court of Justice of the European Union has condemned us for two cases because of that wonderful action that colleagues of GERB claim to have carried out in all these years. There are other objective facts that need to be mentioned. Next week, we are about to release the data from the National report on the state of the environment, which was formally processed through the Ministry to take into account what the state of the environment is at the present time, and unfortunately, it is not good. When we talk about the environment, it's not just some ideal, although it's one of the first ideals of our revivalists, of the liberators, of our revolutionaries and so on, but it's the home we live in. Here I will go to the second topic, which has actually proved controversial, about the rule of law and how, in certain cases, we make an exception only for infrastructure objects of national importance. In fact, so did the GERB government with the majority that it had in the National Assembly to make an exception and only in these cases to have one instance. It is no secret, and many of you know that I deal with this type of environmental causes for almost two decades. Often, regardless of the intentions of governments, certain projects that have threatened the environment have not passed at this time. The second instance of the Court is the guarantee that a project has an objective examination of the circumstances and evidence of the first instance. There is no reason for this two-installed production to exist in all other instances. I also understand that there should be no delay for these important projects for Bulgaria. Make sure that's what we're working on right now. There are two approaches. One approach is the environmental impact assessment to be done in consistency at the earliest stage, so that when it is proceeding and going through normal case law, if any, because it does not necessarily have to be appealed to a project, it will happen at the earliest stage while still being designed while the assessment of how exactly to pass is still being made. Even at an earlier stage, what we are talking about right now with colleagues. Even on an ideal project to communicate with us to say: here passes through a protected territory, you better think of an alternative! To say: there are these and these steps to take, judge them in time. The second way is the fight against corruption. It doesn't matter who puts a tag on so that we can then tell him whether he's a pishman or not, any form of corruption, any form of blackmail is an act against the laws of the country and the competent authorities must have their effect at an early stage of prevention, no admission of such practices. This is the other way, fighting corruption, we do not allow delays in these projects. Since we're talking about our common home, the planet and the environment, the explanation that we'll go faster through the door, if we kill the door, it's true, we'll go faster, but will we not catch a lot of cold in winter, because when there's no door, there's no one to stop the current in our room?! Think about this thing, too: if one instance remains, will it not happen that some projects because of corruption in the judiciary, for example, do not pass, simply because there is a courthouse that would like something not to happen from this government of the state?! The second instance is not a guarantee that any project should be delayed, it is a guarantee of the objectivity of the judgment of the court itself. And that's important! However, as these two opinions exist, I hear that colleagues give two to call them compromise or balancing proposals for solutions. One is for this change to happen not immediately and to return the two instances, however, in a slightly delayed period, so that there will not be this sharp change, namely from 2024. The second amendment, which is proposed editorially and is also a search for such a balance, is to be incorporated during the Law the time for this procedure, namely six months. I think these are appropriate and balancing forms, which, on the one hand, ensure that we restore both instances for those, therefore for all cases in Bulgaria, and the second, that we are giving time for this, we are giving time for the procedure itself so that there are no unnecessary delays, so I support these two remarks. And finally, Mr. Ganev, because for the second time in my presence, you're talking about counting mosquitoes, check it out. They were counted by municipalities of Bulgaria, not NGOs. Non-governmental organizations do not count mosquitoes whether they are green or some other. These were projects of Bulgarian municipalities along the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, any lines to Mr. Ganev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, please remind our esteemed Minister that pouring concrete is too low a ball for him and comparing everything that has happened in the past 10 years with pouring concrete is not serious. All criminal procedures in recent years have happened not because of the management of GERB, but because of the carelessness of the state decades and precisely during the time of GERB began the major changes. Yeah, the world didn't start with GERB, the world didn't start with the Change, but we did a little. I just announced what was done. I don't know if you, Mr. Ganev, go to constituencies, I suppose you go to places where we've been to towns, do you know what people want in the first place? They want sewers. That's what people want, and that's what we've been doing all the time in our government. They wanted treatment plants where there's also concrete and that's what we've been doing all along, colleagues. We made sure that the water was taken away, not gathered in septic pits, because in places there were courtyards in which they had drilled three or four septic pits, and there were no more places to make new ones. Everything has been brought out and purified. This also concerns the environment and clean water. What else did we do? We've reclamated a lot of landfills, and the air is being purified in most of the settlements, and a lot of measures have been taken in terms of air cleanliness. What kind of concrete are we talking about here, Mr. Minister? We found a site with you the other day, yes, there is concrete, but this site will guarantee a cleaner environment and again this is due to GERB's work. Mr. Ganev, please remind the Minister that the funds for biodiversity during the management of GERB are highest in all the mandates of government during the transition. Finally, since the door was being called on, no, Mr. Ganev, we do not point to the door, the Change indicates the door. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Guys, are there any other lines? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u50	Mr. Shishkov, frankly, I don't know what to tell you about what you mentioned. I will just mention that we all know and we all live in Bulgaria or at least a large part of us except for the Prime Minister in recent years who has lived in Canada. We all know your roads, which you have made, have followed repairs, repairs, and there will probably be new ones at the moment. This is about the roads you built with government money. About what you said about ecology. Sorry, I'll just tell you that Varna Municipality has been building a treatment plant for more than 15 years for Golden Sands and your mayor is an emancipation of what should not be done on local soil in terms of ecology. Just the same mayor of yours I no longer know how to describe it to you, what is the drama with the sewers, I do not know if you have any idea that the municipality of Varna has no sewers in the sea capital, and this is after a decade of management of GERB. That is why it is nice, when you say and praise so much what you have done, to say at what price you have done it, because the price from the state budget and from the municipal budgets is colossal because it is made 3.5 km boulevard for more than 120 million This is not a comment, but it is nice to mention it, because it was municipal and state money of your management in Varna. These things may not be the right place to comment on them in this bill, but you are raising them, so I had to take attitude because, when you praise the management of GERB, you should mention those things that I said only about the municipality of Varna, without rushing into other municipalities. And yes, I am walking in my constituency and I want to tell you that in Burgas the ecology is shocking because people who live in Burgas breathe air that is most likely to be measured, I do not know how to say it and I do not want to insult other cities because there is a plant that spews colossally dirty air, and for years nothing is done. I'll mention something else about your ecology. For years Bulgaria has become the biggest importer of garbage and burning of garbage. We have become Europe's junkyard, not the Balkans' garbage dump, and this has happened during your multiannual management. Unfortunately, however, this government that we have at the moment, and this quadruple coalition, and this once again disorder in this coalition, not yours, will change absolutely nothing. On the contrary, at the moment they want to return two-instantial appeals, infrastructure changes and programs that should be implemented, they will still be very slow thanks to the so-called green Taliban in society. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Dunchev, you wanted a statement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u52	Dear colleagues, this will be the only speech I will not make. What you are doing, wasting time, messing up and attacking, is extremely ugly and offensive to the whole society and to all MPs in the Chamber. I shall therefore simply repeat the application for a separate examination and voting procedure of § 8, item 8. 3, 9 and § 13, p. 2, the original proposals of the Council of Ministers, and I will argue them in addition to what Krum Zarkov said, with whom we share clearly 99.9% of our views. First of all, I support the texts of the Council of Ministers on the return of the second instance. I respect that, but I will not support the proposal for deadlines, as this is simply a delay in the time of the problem and a dust in the eyes of the people, but if our coalition group has decided so, I will respect that solution, of course. I can tell why the second instance is so important as a person who has dealt with judicial institutions and overdue cases for at least 10 years. The second instance in practice does not only concern the EPAs, the second instance was removed by colleagues and the Biodiversity Act, and in the Law on Construction of the Territory for National Objects, by the way, has also been abolished by the Law on Access to Public Information and by several other laws. That is, this is a philosophy that does not simply concern investment development in the state, but it concerns a philosophy that we have to respect, that is to say, this was their idea, they had the right to implement it, the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the President were against, environmental organisations, civil organisations, human rights organizations, justice for everyone. The Anti-Corruption Fund also submitted yesterday opinions that they were for two instances. Here is just a clash of vision, we respect each other, but the point is that the second instance will grow to a bigger dispute as it is in several more laws. I have introduced it to my colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" and amendments to ZUT and the ZB, where to restore it, we will prepare it for the ZDAI, but we need to consider at the coalition political level what we are doing at all with this philosophy with the second instance. If we are going to remove it in ZUT and ZOS, let us discuss it all together, whether all Bulgarian justice should not have a second instance at all, because we are doing something in a piece, visible to benefit one state policy at the expense of another. Secondly, we have all come with the ambition to reform the judiciary, to objectively independent justice, to defend the rights and interests of our voters, and now is our chance to see whether we will strengthen, as Krum Zarkov said, these promises of ours in a bill, or we will slide on the philosophy that has led to the cancellation of the second request. So here the question is not about investment proposals, the point is that the second instance is being removed so that someone can hold the power. Whether we're going to be like the ones who did it, we're going to decide today. Finally, I will conclude with the arguments that have been put forward by my fellow Members, why it is important that only one request be made by the judiciary. First of all, there are concerns from colleagues that the investment process has actually slowed down and we will not be able to keep the government's promises to quickly build important investment projects of national importance. However, I ask, both environmental organisations and justice for everyone and the Anti-Corruption Fund ask with their opinions what is more important, only the investment process, or it is more important that we have a balanced justice system where democratic rights and democracy itself are based on a solid foundation of true independent justice, which for decades has already been included in two instances. If we're going to move on to a single instance model, just to do it for the entire judiciary, not a piece of ZUT, ZBI, ZDAI and so on, so we can't compromise democracy and people's rights because we've decided to make investment proposals. Secondly, a reference from the MoEW on parliamentary control shows that on average most of them may be 6 months late, as Krum Zarkov said, but on average there are four months of delays due to the second instances of national sites. Those who are appealed, if you see the reference, I will not quote names, I will not replicate the colleague with white hair, but those who have appealed the most and who are said to have wanted racketeering, this is an organization that, in fact, an investigation of Nova TV and Marin Nikolov showed with the assistance of a firm that had the courage to complain, showed that this is indeed racketeering, and the organization is absolutely pseudo-ecological, here we agree with the colleague. One of the footage there is a former member of State Security, which lights up a lot of lights. The point is, we now have fear of such organizations. Do you know why? Because when all this racketeering has been proven, the man is still at large and continues to appeal state, national projects. That is why we must not stop and break justice, and we must decide the reasons why there is no real justice. There is no real justice because there was a specialized prosecutor who, instead of investigating this man and this organization, does nothing. Thanks to the coalition, we have released the state from the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court so that someone can start dealing with this pseudo-organization and its head, who carries out this racket.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u53	The weather, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u54	Thirdly, the two projects that have been stopped for Yadenitsa and Struma have gone to the European Commission at second instance and are stuck there, that is to say, that the second instance is not a solution when it is not there. We proposed with colleague Stratieva how to shorten the deadline for the appointment of the meetings because there is the main problem...................................................................................... We offered a month as it is in the GCP, we have art. 60 of the APC, which allows the preliminary implementation of the national sites. What's the problem with art. 60 to play when they're super important. Second argument. The court is dependent...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u55	Mr. Dunchev, you're almost two minutes past your limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u56	Sorry, I'll finish with a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u57	In the back, you'll have a chance. Thank you. Hey, guys, any lines? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Dunchev, my hair is white from problems I've had in the field of environmental protection. I have enough reason to ask the question: and who are you protecting by asking for a second instance? You are very often present at the meetings of the Committee on Environment and Water and you are submitting extremely extravagant proposals, defending non-governmental organisations. And why don't you defend what the National Assembly as a whole has to do? Mr. Ganev, my truly sincere compliments on your attitude to environmental protection. I would like to tell you that my parliamentary group is firmly behind the single-station production. That someone else is speaking, it is his right and Mr. Dunchev's right. I am convinced that this is not the opinion of.. We continue the Change..................... We have consulted, debated and made a decision, and there is an alternative proposal. So don't come out here because really your demands are sewn with white threads. So I ask the question: who are you protecting, Mr. Dunchev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u60	So much for my gray hair. You know, it's from suffering when you probably haven't been involved in forest conservation yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u62	Dear colleagues, I have said this with complete respect to you because my hair has begun to whiten since I was in the National Assembly, but this is another matter. I want to answer your question whose interests I defend the interests of the state and of all of us. I will tell you why.. because the second argument that colleagues share is not to return the second instance is our concern that the court is dependent that the court as such will serve some parties and they will sabotage our investment projects. Except right here is absolutely the opposite of the truth. Why? Because in our 15-year experience as environmental organizations, I, as a representative of such, have also worked in state structures, but I have also been a representative of civil organisations, have fought this particular problem of dependence. And do you know who saves the nature of Bulgaria when we fought against the dependent court and proved it in the Orhu Convention in the European Commission? Look at the cases there and you'll see. It is proved by the Bulgarian caselaw that Bulgarian nature, Bulgarian civic interest, the interest of even the respectable business was protected because we had a second instance. At the very second instance, we have always managed to prove that someone at a lower level was dependent and speculated. At second instance, there are always two or three judges in the five-member Chamber who are more independent and have defended the public public and environmental interest. Secondly, in one instance is a much better chance for the court to stop our projects, just because it is dependent, as everyone says. Therefore, it is good to have two instances, because then there is a chance that our investment projects will pass, because in one instance a Russian conservation organization can appear and it can appeal and stop the Change project. That is why the two instances are our salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. For Mr. Abrovsky's procedure. To speak, Mr. Shishkov, and then Mrs. Zlatanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to propose that we put an end to the debates and start voting because, as you can see, the debates, instead of protecting the environment, are there justice in Bulgaria, are there not? And as a matter of fact, I was amazed at what the Deputy Prime Minister said just now, who is here today, unlike yesterday at the Commission, who said that these projects did not go through them?! If objects of national importance are not coordinated with the Ministry of Environment and Water, who are they co-ordinated with?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. For a reverse opinion.. Petar Petrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if we could just listen to the opposite opinion and I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My reverse proposal is not to end the debates, but to continue them, because the appeal to the environmental impact assessment, the so-called assessment, and really the procedures that are related show us the real picture of how the state was managed, how the state is managed and how some of us want the state to be managed. We believe that this debate is important for society and not just for us as MPs, which is why I ask you not to support this proposal at least because I would like to make an opinion on the paragraphs voted on 8 and 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to take the word once again just to bring in two details. I'm in a place where I'm called in in time and answer questions that concern me. Yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture, I had to appear clearly only to say: this does not concern us until we have an environmental impact assessment and an environmental assessment made by performers, not by the Ministry. It's good to know what procedures are. As for what I said. Of course, these projects go through environmental assessments and there is a ruling by the Ministry on them, but the Ministry does not, and it is important to understand. I'm taking advantage of what Mr. Shishkov said about the many miles. If these billions of European funds by priorities that were used were not only a few thousand, but all thousands of kilometers of sewerage, if all regional landfills had happened, we would now not have a criminal procedure related to the lack of all regional waste depots and Kyustendil to be flooded with literally chambers and bins of waste; there would be no criminal procedure that we have failed to build purification plants in all agglomerations with more than 10 thousand inhabitants; there would be no criminal procedure against Bulgaria, that we did not reclamate all illegal landfills; there would be no criminal procedure in two areas of biodiversity for which the delay was eight years, and so on and so on. And in the meantime, just to tell you that, apart from concrete, it turns out that in the Operational Programme, it is also intended to be sprayed with glyphosate, which has been banned in the European Union since 2025. Fortunately, over Iraqli will not be sprayed with gliphosate at the moment, fighting invasive species because just before signing the project by me, we were able to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Colleagues, I will put to the vote Mr. Abramsky's procedural proposal to end the discussion. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, I must put the proposal to the vote. Please, voting mode. [[Heckling]] However, the proposal may not be accepted. For fellow Members who are now entering the Chamber, we are voting for an end to the discussion under paragraphs 8 and 9. Vote 174 MPs: 111, against 58, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there were two people on record. I will give them the opportunity to make their speeches and then we will move on to voting on the two texts. Mr. Mladen Shishkov and then Mrs. Tatiana Sultanova. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know why the discussion revolves around what has been done in the last 10 years as if nothing had happened before or really nothing happened. Colleagues, I do not know why we have brought up the topic of roads, which has nothing to do with the bill under consideration, but I can tell you that the road network in Bulgaria is 20,000 km and in bad condition is half of it, and in the last 10 years almost 1/3 has been repaired. These repairs are not repairs to our new roads, but repairs to what was before us. So it's pretty ridiculous to say that it all starts with GERB. It's not like that. The same would be said of actions in terms of environmental protection. Colleagues, each one of us, I've said it many times in this room, left his mark on the environment and continues to do so. It is absolutely not serious to blame a person or a separate organization for everything that surrounds us. This is absolutely not serious. Not to mention that historically they have missed so many years and decades that their catching up is very difficult. To claim that we have solved all environmental problems, this is really not serious anymore. We can't solve them. There are local problems. I could also give dozens of examples, but I also gave examples with which we have shown a new approach to environmental management in all its sectors, starting with water, air, soil, biodiversity, if you will, as we commented earlier with Mr. Minister. So, colleagues, let's not try to transfer the ball to an organization. All these problems are inherited, but all of us together need to find a way to solve them, not to blame each other for seeing that nothing happened. On the contrary, many things have happened, but at least five times as much must happen to ensure a clean environment for our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u71	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Petrov, come in. Then is the colleague from GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Shishkov, you are wrong that nothing happened in the period when there was no two-instant production. The green racket did not take place, there was no green blackmail, these huge projects, because... Where's colleague Dunchev? I have not heard of Russian human rights organizations that receive US grants, but I have heard about other green organisations receiving US grants, I have also heard about NGOs explaining about judicial reform, which also receive US grants, and I have also heard about judicial associations that directly receive US grants. Whether they are all the same and are tied to a certain political party in the current Parliament.. in a coalition, you answer the question yourself. However, my colleague Shishkov, I believe that the problem is not whether there is a two-way appeal or a one-way appeal. The problem is that too many are the subjects who are legally authorized to be able to appeal. And they start first instance, second instance and so on, before that, after unsuccessful conversations under the table, so quietly: Give some money so we don't mourn and that's actually the problem. The other problem is that the time limits for these cases are too long. Even if you have a two-way appeal, if it says the law that within one month will develop each of the two instances, there will be no delay. In fact, the green racketeering of these green blackmailers, which, again, I say, are pretty much the same, will not happen. This is the main problem, but still, when the procedure is uniform, more or less the possibility of green racketeering is prevented or limited. However, the problem is different, and I regret that my colleague said that there were dependent judges and independent judges. Colleagues, if your problem is the Bulgarian court, do not change the Law on the Environment, change the Law on the Judiciary, change the Administrative Procedure Code. There, touch to ensure independence of the Bulgarian court, which colleague Dunchev explains as a motive to return the two-installed proceedings. I don't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Yeah. Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Shishkov, in your speech you have addressed the issue of local problems. I can't miss to return the talk about Varna a little while ago, as some untruths of this tribune have just been uttered. Varna actually has settlements without sewerage, but it is appropriate to note that Varna signed a contract to implement a project of nearly 150 million, which covers the construction of more than 20 km of plumbing and over 80 km of sewerage and sewerage deviations, which will directly have an effect on improving the water quality of nearly 300 thousand people living in Varna municipality. With regard to the treatment plants. As far as I'm concerned, the Golden Sands treatment plant has been launched and has been officially operating since May last year and Varna, and the region is almost, as far as I am informed, no longer pouring uncleaned waters anywhere. So this speculation I wanted to distract. Let's stick to the facts from this tribune, and the facts are true. The project for nearly 150 million for sewerage and plumbing in Varna has been mourned for a little more than a year, the contracts have already been concluded and in fact exactly what said and colleague Petrov just now is the reason for slowing down the sorry, second, third instances and a number of other things. The main problem that emerges before the implementation of this project from now on is that the last year's prices for the implementation of such activities have been increased almost double, and that is actually the problem that the Municipality has to deal with, but the contracts have been concluded and the project is mobile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Third line, Mr. Balachev. You're giving up. Mrs. Stratieva, for the third line? Here you are, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u76	Colleagues, since you are talking about an appeal here, I would like to ask: do you know how many projects have been appealed in accordance with the order of the ECA and how many projects have been appealed because estrangement procedures are underway? Inform yourself and then defend the right to have a second instance of the Zos or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Mr. Shishkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mrs. Stratieva, that line I think was not to me, because I didn't speak in my speech. We are about to comment on this subject. Yes, Mr. Christov, there are local problems everywhere. I remember that before the management of GERB probably over 95, maybe 97% of small settlements did not know what this sewerage was. They and the big ones didn't know over 10,000 people, like my hometown, with 16,000 people, in the 21st century there wasn't a meter of sewerage built. One meter before 2012! Thanks to the Operational Program, 200 km sewerage, water ducts and deviations and a treatment plant were built. Yeah, again, there's a lot of problems. They are to be resolved because, I do not know if you are familiar, colleagues, but the length of the water network in Bulgaria is 90 thousand kilometers. Each one of you can account for the amount of work we are talking about. In no case do we claim that we have solved all problems everywhere, but let's be honest: how many treatment stations were there before the launch of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013? There must have been five working in Bulgaria, there are now nearly 60, but there are many more to be done. So let's not try anything nice done to turn into some kind of negative. It's also about the waste, by the way. Waste is a resource, it is used throughout the world, across Europe, there is transportation and recovery of waste everywhere. Yes, there were problems during the management of GERB, but you remember what happened then. For the first time, a minister and a deputy minister have been indicted. For the first time! And by the way, then I don't know if anyone has been impressed with such severe cases as were around 2019 anymore, because the new management of the Ministry reacts immediately, a coordination centre is being made and the entire waste stream is being monitored at the moment. Not to mention that as regulations we have done the maximum, we have even done much more than what is under the European directives. We have banned to a greater extent the import of waste for recovery than in the whole of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mrs. Tatiana Sultanova. Here you are, Mrs. Sultanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u80	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u81	Deputy Prime Minister. Continue, Mrs. Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u82	I apologize, Deputy Prime Minister. Bulgaria has incredibly rich biodiversity. In its territory, 26% of the species described in Europe are found and is among the countries with the largest... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u83	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u84	...a variety of species. In addition, the protected areas of the European Natura 2000 network are 35%, which puts Bulgaria in one of the first places. And it is our moral duty, the moral duty of every Bulgarian citizen to preserve this national wealth, moral duty to us as MPs, and we represent the Bulgarian citizens, to do so too. And while our rich nature is a cause for national pride, our country is brought to the bottom of the European Union on economic development and standard of living. The development of a strong and prosperous economy involves the need to build a modern infrastructure providing transport connectivity, energy independence and efficient resource management, which is becoming increasingly important against the backdrop of the ruthless and unprecedented war that is being fought very close to our lands. That is why our direction should logically be for building sites of national strategic importance and this should be our top priority. The implementation of investment projects in the last decade has been subject to high public sensitivity due to the opaque conduct of environmental procedures for their approval, due to suspicion of corruption, umbrellas to investors and projects, pressure on responsible employees, non-compliance with environmental legislation and gross violation of environmental standards. Bulgaria has introduced the European requirements for assessing the impact on the environment of investment proposals, but these requirements in the last decade have very often not been respected and it is logical that civil society, which has lost confidence in the institutions and disbelieved in the institutions, to seek justice on a judicial basis by appealing to the decisions of the competent authorities, to seek justice in a judicial system, which is the embodiment of moral degradation and most of all in our country needs a change. Today we are discussing whether the MoEW decisions on EIA reports on strategic projects should be appealed to one or two institutions, whether citizens are deprived of access to justice, whether international treaties are respected. But the real problem is different. The real problem is the need to apply high standards of administrative control by the competent authority to the entire process of approval of investment projects, a comprehensive revision of mechanisms and processes, in order to ensure a high quality of the decisions issued, led solely by the principles of environmental protection, so that there is no doubt that our nature is a victim of the developing world. And when we achieve that, the question of appealing MoEW decisions would have made a whole other sense. The debate on the appeal of EIA decisions on objects of national importance of one or two instances is not a debate on a reduction of time limits, it is not a debate on the deprivation of justice and ignoring established case law. The debate is to restore justice for the protection of the environment, for Bulgaria to be able to ensure a decent life for its citizens, to find a balanced approach for economic development and at the same time to preserve our national wealth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Toma Bikov for a line. Here you are, Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mrs. Sultanova, you are wonderful theorists. In words, you talk relatively well about what the ideal world should be like. The problem is that your words so far remain only in theory about how just everything should be, how everything will be done, how we will stop conflicts of interest, corruption and so on, and at the same time behind all this you simply do nothing. You're not doing anything! And then there is neither corruption, nor conflict of interest, nor conflicts between the different groups in society, it just becomes a big conflict between those who want something to be done, and those who are standing here talking about how rosy the world should ever be in the distant future when we will build our true communist society, but it is still early. And so, by the way, we can go on for another 100 years waiting for the building of a fair society, until during that time there is neither road nor sewerage nor nothing. With this proposal you're proposing, we'll follow up on what happens next. You will see that you will also create conditions for corruption, you will see that you will also create conditions for conflicts, but ultimately you will not be able to in a faster and more effective way to make people live better. Because people don't live with theories, they don't live with theoretical statements, like you said: environmental justice. I don't know what justice is in the environment and what justice in the environment means at all, and maybe there is solidarity, and freedom should be affected in this subject, but all that you talk about is a theory that doesn't do any work in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sultanova, congratulations on the wonderful essay on how bad GERB are. It's very wonderfully written, wonderfully read, but the truth is different. The truth I told you in the beginning, in my first statement that as bad GERB as they are, one year, Bikov spoke about sewerage, plumbing and roads, these are dreams, colleague, one year and six months of management of the Change has not adopted any legal act in the field of the environment. None. Today is the first time we've accepted. Yeah, I'm sorry, we moved the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology from the Ministry of Metropolitan Science to the Moss. We adopted amendments to the Law on genetically modified organisms last week at first reading, which was also prepared by GERB, by the way. So, colleagues, let's say that nothing has been done before us, and we do nothing, but really nothing, not just as construction, but as regulations, it is hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u89	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Third line, guys? Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Sultanova, I can say only good words for your speech, but I believe that it would be right to hear it at the first vote of the Bill and not at the second vote of the Bill, because I have not heard any specifics of the Law, should or should not remain the single-station appeal; we should or should not introduce the two-station appeal of the EIA; these state policies must or should not be carried out in this way or otherwise; we should or should not allow for any possibility of blackmailing any specific things under § 8. Unfortunately, I didn't hear any, but I was very hoping to hear them. I don't know why that is. Perhaps your vision, a colleague, is somewhat more general, so I draw a conclusion from your speech. But if possible, in the duplicate, tell me what you think there should be a two-in-a-day appeal, shouldn't there be; should the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission remain as rejected, or should it now be accepted, and this regime should be complied with from here on out. I hope to hear, and not just by § 8, but by the following paragraphs. When you go out to make some speeches, let's hear a little bit about the specifics that are inherent, however, for the second vote on the bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u91	And thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mrs. Sultanova, you have an opportunity for a coat, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bikov, if we're theorists, you're practitioners. We've seen your practices on Captain Andreevo. We saw a private company take over the functions of the state without any camera installed to certify the activity it is carrying out. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Yeah, you're practical. Mr. Shishkov, we're talking about water infrastructure, you're talking about treatment plants. Let's ask why in one district city there is a treatment plant built, paid for under the operational programme................................................................................................. And ask why in this district city residents still drink unclean water in the presence of a treatment plant paid for by means of operational programs. Mr. Petrov, you haven't listened carefully to my speech. It clearly and categorically contained the answer that you were expecting. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Mr. Manev, you have the floor for procedure. Then, fellow Members, we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I don't know why the coworker involves topics that will later be on committee today and we'll hear who to whom, what firm it is; who signed whom contracts, and that horror of Captain Andreevo who did it. But he just doesn't belong here during a discussion of this bill to talk about things they want to hide from this afternoon. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mrs. Petkova, come in for a procedure. For procedure or for declaration, Mrs. Petkova? For a declaration by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u96	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today's governance of the Change has come to power with the demand for publicity, transparency, professionalism, the return of parliamentaryism. Sadly, we can say that to date, none of these principles and none of these requests have been fulfilled. One of the sectors in which publicity, transparency, professionalism are of the slightest honor turned out to be energy. Let us recall how the President of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission was elected. He was elected in gross violation of the law without any publicity and without any transparency. Let us recall how the memorandum, contract or letter of intent was signed with Jemcorp, which was given to the counter the entire Bulgarian energy. Let us also recall the three-second transactions for the sale of natural gas and the secret meeting of the Energy Commission. Is this the publicity, transparency and the return of parliamentaryism? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u97	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u98	But today, honourable Members, the Bulgarian society we are all faced with another deprivation of the right to information and the right to know what prices we will pay for electricity, heat, water in the next heating season from 1 July 2022. The law provides that the KEWRC must disclose this information. Energy enterprises submitted their applications on 31 March 2022. Until today, until yesterday, in fact, such information was not published by the KEWRC. And when we asked in the Energy Commission: when can we understand what price hikes energy companies have asked for for the new... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u99	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u100	...heat season, we were told that this was not required for people not to worry. Here is this answer, honourable Members, which can only be determined in one word and it is called a scandal because people have the right to know what price they will pay. The price is paid by the people, you don't pay it by the Change. What we need to know is that, within the Energy Commission, we have requested that we formally take a decision from the KEWRC Commission to provide information relating to the requested increase in energy resource prices by energy enterprises. And do you know how they voted publicly and transparently in the Energy Commission and the return of parliamentaryism? Well, they voted against the ruling majority. Is that publicity and transparency, fellow Members? Is this the return of parliamentaryism? Is this how Bulgarian citizens will know what price they will pay, or was it necessary for you only to lie to them and enter into power? We've all figured out how much change we're talking about. Yesterday, after long reflections and passions, information appeared on the KEWRC's website, applications of energy enterprises were published and at last we decided that although with delay, Bulgarian society will be aware of what price it will pay and what increase the prices of electricity and heat for the new heating season will be. But do you know what our surprise was when we saw what the KEWRC had published on its page? Here are the applications of the three electricity distribution companies. Dear colleagues, honourable Bulgarian citizens, you should know that there are no prices in these applications, they have been deleted. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, under the new leadership, has publicly and transparently wiped out the prices and in their place Xs have emerged, colleagues. Right, somewhere the X's are four, somewhere there's three, the other ERP is six. Here the big question is: what is behind these x's, honourable colleagues of the ruling majority? And Bulgarian citizens need to know whether behind these Xs there is an increase in the price of electricity and heat from 100 to 150%. People need to know this because they have the right to pay the bill. All these x's here, fellow Members, I think they represent one single thing. This is the x of your management of the Change, behind which change there is nothing but a replacement. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] From how energy is managed, we are practically getting an idea of how the state is being managed by you today. It is managed without publicity, without transparency, unprofessionally and not in the interests of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens. May the Change not last long, not for anything else, but for the good of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Colleagues, if there are no other procedures, let's move on to the vote. First of all, we will put to the vote the proposals in § 8. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vladislav Panev, which is in art. 88, para. 4 of the Law. I'll read you the whole text of para. 4 and I will tell you where Mr. Panev's proposal is. The text of para. 4 is as follows: The decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints, comma here is Mr. Panev's proposal, which added "Supplied by 1 July 2024" and then continues the text of the Law against opinions decisions under para. 1 related to the realization of sites which are designated as objects of national importance with an act of the Council of Ministers to be sites of strategic importance. Please vote on Mr. Panev's proposal. [[Heckling]] That's why I read it, colleagues, to give you an idea. [[Heckling]] I'm saying that's why I read it to give you an idea of what kind of change is. Voting mode. They voted 133 MPs: 109, against 20, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Next, I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Miroslava Petrova, which concerns para. 5. I'll read you the text in para. Five, which is to date, two sentences. The proposal of the MP Miroslava Petrova concerns amendment of the sentence first in para. 5 of art. 88. I'm reading you the text of the Law. Art. 88, para. 5 sentence one: The Court shall examine the appeals under para. 4 and rule by decision, ending the proceedings within six months of their submission. Mrs. Petrova's proposal is to amend the text in the following sense in the first sentence: 4 shall be examined by the Supreme Administrative Court and the proceedings shall be concluded within six months of their submission. Please, voting mode. Vote 139 MPs: 114, against 11, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the text of § 8 which is in the version of the Commission. [[Reply of the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] Mr. Shishkov, the text of the importer shall be voted if the version of the Commission is not adopted. Colleagues, we vote on the version proposed by the Commission of § 8, then we will vote in full with the editorial proposals already adopted. Please, voting mode. They voted 140 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 26. That's how the offer is accepted. Now, colleagues, I will put to a vote in full the text of § 8, as proposed in the version of the Commission, which we have just adopted, and with the editorial proposals made by Mr. Panev and Mrs. Petrova, which I therefore propose to be the same. 3 et c. 4. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 115, against 12, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. To Mr. Dunchev, Mr. Dunchev, there is no way we can put to the vote the main text by importer because the proposals from the Commission were adopted. The rules just won't allow it. Colleagues, we're moving on to § 9. I put again to the vote, first of all, the editorial proposals made by colleagues Vladislav Panev and Miroslava Petrova. 93, para. 10 and para. 11. I will read to you the text of the Law at the moment to give you an idea of where the proposals have been made. I'm reading to you. 93, para. 10 of the Law: sr. (10) The decisions under para. 6 are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. The decisions of the Court of First Instance on complaints are final, here is Mr. Panev's proposal, which added the text submitted by 1 July 2024. The text of the Law, acting at the moment, continues against decisions of the Minister of Environment and Water on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers and are objects of strategic importance. That is, it is added: the complaints lodged by 1 July 2024. Please vote on Mr. Panev's proposal. Vote 136 MPs: 115 against 11, abstention 10. With this, the proposed proposal is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal made by the MP Miroslava Petrova, which concerns para. Article 11 93 of the Law. I am reading to you the text of the Law, acting at the moment, and more precisely the sentence first of para. Article 11 93: The Court of Justice shall examine the appeals under para. The second sentence of 10 and shall be given by decision and the proceedings shall be concluded within 6 months of their submission. Mrs. Petrova's proposal is to amend the text as follows: ? (11) Complaints under para. A second sentence shall be considered by the Supreme Administrative Court and the proceedings shall be concluded within 6 months of their submission. That is to say, the Supreme Administrative Court is added again. This is the main meaning of the proposal made. Please, voting mode. Vote 136 MPs: 114, against 11, abstention 11. That's how the offer is accepted. Now we move on to the basic text of § 9. As far as the Commission proposes that § 9 be dismissed, and we have just adopted editorial proposals, I am making a proposal in § 9 item. 1 to acquire the text proposed by Mr. Panev, which we adopted just now, etc. 2 of § 9 to acquire the text proposed by the MP Miroslava Petrova, which we also adopted just now. We vote on § 9, which is with the proposals made and already accepted by the MPs Vladislav Panev and Miroslava Petrova. They voted 132 MPs: 113, against 12, abstention 7. That's how the offer is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have the floor to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u102	Thank you. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. 1 in a sentence second after the words "The Competent Authority" shall be added to the statement "or person empowered by it" and, in a sentence, third, the words "or" shall be replaced by "the Competent Authority." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 6: It's six. a description of the results of other relevant assessments taken into account under national legislation relating to the investment proposal and drawn up prior to the EIA report; b) Previous t. 6 " 14" becomes p.m., respectively. 7 - 15. 2. In para. 7 words.............................................................................. 1, 2 and 3 One and three. 3. In para. 8, p. 1 letter "b" the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 11. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Abrovski. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3, p. 7
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Let's stop here. Colleagues, I am opening the discussion on the texts so read by Mr Genov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Declarations of the President with the rapporteur and MPs Vladislav Panev and Miroslava Petrova.]] Colleagues, just to clarify, as there have been proposals made by colleagues Miroslava Petrova and Vladislav Panev, who were identical to their proposals under § 8 and § 9. Colleagues, please come out once more and specify exactly what your editorial proposals are. Mr. Panev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I read earlier, my proposal is in § 13, Art. 13. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 9 after the words........................................................................................................... to be added................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u105	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Mrs. Petrova, please tell us once again what your proposal was.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My offer is identical. I'd like to be correct and read it to you again. It refers to the first sentence in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 10, that is, complaints under para. 9 shall be examined by the Supreme Administrative Court and the proceedings shall be concluded within six months and shall be identical to the former. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First of all, we will vote on the editorial proposals made today in this House. Mr. Panev's proposal concerns para. 9 of art. 99 of the Law and I will read it again to you to get an idea of what is being amended. The text of the Law is currently: The decisions of the First Court of Appeals against decisions of the Minister of Environment and Water on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are designated as objects of national importance by an act of the Council of Ministers and are of strategic importance, as well as by a decision of the Minister of Environment and Water under the procedure under art. 94, para. 1, t. 9. Mr. Panev's proposal is at the beginning of the text and concerns the addition of the following: Please, voting mode. Vote 112 MPs: 99, Against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Miroslava Petrova, which concerns para. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 99 of the Law. Once again, I will read you the first sentence of that provision, as it is in its current version: The Court examines the appeals under para. 9 and by decision, the proceedings shall be concluded within six months of their submission. Mrs. Petrova's proposal is a sentence first to be amended in the following sense: 9 shall be examined by the Supreme Administrative Court and the proceedings shall be concluded within six months of their submission. Both proposals concern § 13, as by importer. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: 100 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the main texts: § 10, which is in the version of the Commission and which retains its numbering and remains § 10, and not as proposed by the Commission. " § 9; § 11, which is also in the version of the Commission and which also retains its numbering and remains § 11; § 12, which is an importer and which also retains its numbering. We're gonna vote 'em out, guys. Then we will vote § 13 in the version of the Commission and then in full with the additives. I am voting from § 10 to § 12, including, as I have just presented. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The texts have been adopted. I put to the vote § 13 in the version of the Commission and then we will vote in full with the amendments adopted. Please, voting mode. Vote 117 MPs: 103, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting in full § 13, which retains its numbering, together with the adopted editorial proposals, which will accordingly be renumbered as p. 2 et c. 3 and the current proposed text by the Commission will be t. 1. Vote 112 MPs: 99, Against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'd like to read you a message. From 11.30 pm in the Club of the National Representative will be opened photo exhibition under the title:.65 years resort complex Golden Sands. The exhibition presents archive and contemporary photos, which show the creation and development of the resort complex "Golden Sands." The exhibition is initiated by the Ministry of Tourism and the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association. All MPs are invited to the event and this gives me a break until 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u108	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. I give Mr. Genov the floor to introduce us to the Commission's proposals further.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13, i.e. 1 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 14. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Evgenia Alexieva and a group of MPs: A new §15a is being created as follows: Article 3 is replaced by the following: 102a: Art. 102a. The Minister of Health shall, in agreement with the Minister of Environment and Water, adopt a regulation laying down criteria for assessing risks to human health, including for determining distances from settlements to productions emitting intensive smelling substances. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Genov. I am opening a discussion on § 14, which becomes § 13, § 15 and the proposal of the MPs Evgenia Alexieva and a group of MPs. Mladen Shishkov for speech. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My statement is under § 15a and is related to the proposal that we submitted with colleague Eugenia Alexieva. Honourable Members, the environmental assessment and environmental impact assessment procedure are preventive instruments to identify and assess potential environmental and human health impacts. They shall apply to plans and programmes at national, regional and local level which are under preparation and for the construction and operation of investment proposals at the earliest stage of their research and development before a decision is taken on their implementation at the specific place in the relevant technology, way of construction and so on. For the assessment of environmental impact on individual components and factors, there are developed methodologies and guidelines which help to overcome subjectivism and when deciding on the part of the competent authorities. However, this is not the case with the risk assessment on human health. For this assessment, there are no developed criteria on the basis of which the competent authorities to take an objective decision, including no regulatory requirements for compliance with individual locations of different types of productions emitting a strong and unpleasant smell. In recent years, there have been a number of cases of authorisation of this type of production in settlements or in close proximity to them. As a result, there is great discontent among the population. Given that the protection of the health of the population is a national priority, we have made with our fellow Members a proposal which obliges the competent authorities to develop criteria for assessing the risk on human health to ensure objectiveism in decision-making in the conduct of environmental procedures. There are very few cases that we could quote on the territory of the country that create an unpleasant feeling in citizens regarding the activities that develop these installations. In this regard, our proposal is to create such a regulatory regulation that regulates the stands and the technology process of undertakings and installations that emit intense smells. Therefore, fellow Members, although the proposal has been rejected by the Commission, I would like to call on you to support it, because it is extremely important and will, to a large extent, help, so to speak, for air purification in some of the populated areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. For the replica of Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u113	Mr. Shishkov, it is very important that your proposal, your interest indeed in protecting people's health and life, but I do not want to go back, to say when the regulation that existed and regulated these divisions of various proceedings was repealed. You are a Commissioner, we have invited a representative of the Ministry of Health, all these things have been commented. We have received assurance that this regulation, together with the Ministry of Environment, will be developed, proposed for public discussion and will have a final result. You yourself said from this tribune that the risk assessment mechanisms are extremely complex, so how to measure the smell, because it is extremely subjective to measure one smell, one smells, another does not smell, and this regulation will rejoice if it happens. In the Commission, you yourself know, we did not vote on this proposal and we expect things to really happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u114	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Second line from Stefan Shilev. Here you go, Mr. Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The problem with smells is extremely serious at least because the assessment of whether or not there are smells is strictly subjective. In principle, in theory, I would agree with Mr. Genov that there should be a regulation, a little more comprehensive, but when I think about what is actually happening, because it is really important what is happening. What's practically happening? This regulation may not happen, but it is more important to protect the interests of the people. The fact is that in the Committee on the Environment and Waters only the representatives of GERB-SDS voted for such a regulation, and the other colleagues were against, of which I, frankly, am disappointed, because these are topics on which we talk about the health of people, topics that are original, and it doesn't matter here whether we are red, blue and so on, it is important to preserve people's health. In this regard, I will vote to support such a regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Third line from Tatiana Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Shishkov! Yes, indeed Regulation No 7 on hygiene requirements for the health protection of the settlement environment, which defined the sanitary protection zones from the settlements, was repealed precisely by the GERB government in 2011. In fact 11 years later after a long inaction, yes, the problem is rightly serious, you are concerned about the state of settlements and the impact of different types of productions on them. I would like to tell you that during those 11 years in which this problem did not seem to exist, in many settlements in the country, in Nova Zagora, in Vidin, in Plovdiv, people were and are still exposed to the genocide of unpleasant stench. The problem is indeed very serious, but so done, your proposal will not solve the problem of people. In fact, the Ministry of Health is already in the process of developing a regulation in which all aspects of this problem will be assessed, and I believe that at last 11 years later, we will find a solution and solve the problem of unpleasant smells from various proceedings for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. For the duvet, Mladen Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, yes, it is true, the factology is accurate. Ordinance No 7 was repealed by the first government of GERB, but it had reasons to do so. Regulation No 7 was outdated, was not in line with the intensive development of the economy and industry and therefore more flexible measures were taken, and these estimates were transferred into the competences of the institutions concerned............................................................................................................................................. Obviously this flexibility has not given rise to the expected effect and we appreciate that. Of course, we always admit our mistakes. It's a pass we're currently trying to sanitize, and we hope for your support, of course. With regard to the request by the Ministry of Health, which, through its opinion and orally of the Commission, stated that it is preparing some regulation for the general impact of all industrial industries, this is very good as an idea, but remains as a good wish somewhere in the future. First of all, because there's no legal basis for him to do it. None of the laws states that such a regulation must be adopted. That is, they are preparing some document of their goodwill without any legal basis. This means that there is no horizon for the adoption of this document. It's been six months, nothing's happening. I am convinced that one line of this regulation has not been written. There is no harm in adopting the specific Regulation on smells at the moment and when the Ministry of Health along with the Ministry of Environment and Water manage to do something jointly, this regulation will be exemplary implemented to the new regulation or will be repealed. You'll find some form to be used. But because, as you said, the problem is urgent, the problem is important, let's not put it off for another six months or another year or two more years, we don't know how much in the future. Therefore, I call on you once again to adopt this regulation now, that is, the introduction of such a regulation, and in the future, when a general regulation is adopted, a whole piece of legislation will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u120	And thank you, Mr. Shishkov. For your speech, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u121	Mr. Shishkov, something we've delayed for 11 years, I don't see how we're going to solve it this way. You're saying we should adopt a regulation. The regulation is a legislative act and is the product of ministerial actions and of the executive power. Let's not exaggerate our powers, because we cannot adopt a regulation. Mr. Shilev said there were a lot of outraged people. They've been outraged since 2011, Mr. Shilev. So I don't want to transfer troubles, blames, inactions for this time, but the fact is that this regulation was repealed 2011 as the colleague here outlined. So, Mr. Shishkov, even if we accept this amendment when there is no readiness by the executive authority, when there are no mechanisms in which to consider the reservations of these industrial and other objects for these proceedings, we are just talking here. So let's get down to business. Let's leave the empty talk, and really when there is a legislative initiative to support such a regulation, let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u122	Thank you. For a cue, Mladen Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u123	Mr. Genov, you have more parliamentary experience than I did last time you gave me a compliment, now I'm going to get it back, but you obviously missed what is written in our proposal. The proposal clearly states: "To adopt a regulation by the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Health. " We are not saying that the National Assembly will adopt this regulation. This is clear that it is not within our power to adopt regulations. It's not empty talking at all. On the contrary, we respect the entire proper procedure in order to make such an adequate proposal. We, as the National Assembly, are instructing the relevant ministries to adopt such a regulation. It's simple, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u124	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any other lines to Manol Genov? Ekaterina Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Genov, you really are an experienced parliamentarians and perhaps you know better than me that in order to adopt a regulation, there must be a basis in the Law. There is no way that the portfolio ministries, even with the enormous desire they have, can solve this problem and develop a legislative act, do so and accept it without having such a basis in the Law. So I call on both of you and all of you once again to give such a basis in the Law of the two competent ministries so that they can do their job.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Third line? Stefan Shilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Regarding what Mr. Genov said, there are indeed extremely many signals about smells. The fact is that a previous minister had done research for an electronic nose, I think it was called. In a way, I think that these studies had arrived, but obviously the procedure that is currently in place to bring together a committee with different representatives and so on, it is the relevant one at the time. I really think, Mr. Shishkov, that it is extremely important because we think in one direction to give this opportunity to the Council of Ministers and to oblige by six months. I believe that we are the ones who can do this, to say how much time, and actually the executive, and in the word.................... is what this is, must do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u128	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Will Mr. Genov have the back? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Evgenia Alexieva and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, which is not supported by the Committee on Environment and Water. They voted 133 MPs: 47, against 23, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Moving to vote on paragraphs 14 and 15. They by numbering in the Commission Report are 13 and 14, but due to the adoption of a new § 9 they are automatically renumbered at 14 and 15. § 14 is in the version of the Commission and § 15 is an importer supported by the Commission. We are voting on the two paragraphs of Anblock. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u129	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "new or existing undertaking and/or facility' shall be replaced by "new, existing or other establishment/ facility' and the words "the facility and/or facility' shall be replaced by "the facility'. 2. In para. 2 the words "supplied' and/or "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied' and everywhere the words "supplied' and/or "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 3. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 the words "supplied and/or "supplied' are replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 3 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (c) c. 4, 5 and 7 the words "the facility and/or the facility' shall be replaced by "the facility'. 4. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "supplier'; (b) c. 1 the words "supplied and/or "supplied' are replaced by "supplied'; (c) c. 2 the words "suppliers and/or facilities" shall be replaced by "suppliers." 5. In para. 5. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "new, existing or other undertaking/unity'; (b) c. 1 and 2 the words "the facility and/or the facility' shall be replaced by "the facility'; (c) c. 3 the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "supplier'; (d) c. 4 the words "after' shall be replaced by "before the final'; (e) c. 5 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" everywhere the words "supplied" and/or "supplied" are replaced by "supplied" and the words "supplied" and/or "supplied" are replaced by "supplied" and the words "supplied" and/or "supplied" are replaced by "supplied" or "supplied." 6. In para. 8, p. 1 in the text prior to the letter...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u130	Colleagues, a little quiet please. Where are you at, excuse me? Just a second, Mr. Genov. You read one paragraph, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u131	§16, yes. Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u132	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u133	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 104 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "health" the property is added. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the words "suppliers and/or facilities' are replaced by "suppliers/ equipments'; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." changes in undertakings/units with low or high risk potential or changes to a process, or of nature or physical form, or a quantity of hazardous substances that could have significant consequences for major accident hazards or may result in the conversion of a low risk undertaking/unity into a high risk undertaking or facility with a high risk potential or vice versa; (c) c. 3 the words "suppliers and/or facilities" shall be replaced by "suppliers." 3. In para. 3: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the approval of safety reports pursuant to art. 109 "115" for the construction and/or operation of new ones, for the operation of other or amendments under para. 2, p. 2 of existing plants/utilities with high risk potential or parts thereof; (b) c. 3 the words "suppliers and/or facilities' are replaced by "suppliers/ equipments'; (c) create a t. 4. "4." confirmation of the completeness and compliance of the report on major accident prevention policy under art. 106 for the construction and/or operation of new ones, for the operation of other or amendments under para. 2, p. 2 of existing undertakings/units with low risk potential or parts thereof. 4. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 the final implementation of the land use policy or any other related policy and implementation procedures shall be added, taking into account the need for the long-term relating to the land use policy; (b) c. 1 " 3" the words "s" and/or "s" are replaced by "s" and "s" are replaced by "s" and "s." 5. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: For the purposes of para. 3 and 4 the operator of a high risk potential undertaking shall provide to the relevant competent authority under Chapter Eight, Section II of the Code on construction of the territory with complete information on risks to human health and the environment arising from the presence of hazardous substances under Annex 3 in that undertaking or facility, a technical opinion on those risks, on a case-by-case basis or in general, when taking decisions, and on measures to prevent major accidents with those substances and to limit their consequences. The operator of a low-risk facility shall provide this information upon request by the relevant competent authority referred to in Chapter Eight, Section II of the Structure Act in the territory. 6. In para. 7 the words "suppliers and/or facilities" shall be replaced by "suppliers" after the words "supplied potential" shall be added to them under para. 2, p. The words "instructions" shall be replaced by the words "instructions" under para. 5 and the opinions, the comments and the proposals The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "supplier'. 2. In para. 2, p. 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 3. In para. 3 the words "suppliers and/or facilities" are replaced by "suppliers." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The operator of a new, existing or other low-risk facility shall prepare and submit the GMPA and any update thereof to the Director of the RIEW in whose territory the undertaking/the facility is located. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The report on major accident prevention policy of a new low-risk facility shall be submitted by the operator to the Director of the RIEW within three months before the establishment/ facility is put into service or before any changes to it leading to a change in the list of hazardous substances. (3) The Director of the RIEW or an official authorised by him shall make public on the website of the RIEW imported by the GMPA operator and any update thereof and shall provide access to the affected public for a period of 14 days, after which he shall draw up and publish on the website of the RIEW draft decision under para. 4. Where surface and/or groundwater or water sites may be affected, the Director of the RIEW shall inform the Director of the relevant pool director by service within the same time limit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u134	Mr. Genov, would you like me to help you a little, that this one is long?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u135	Yeah, t. Three, we're there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u136	"3." So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in the sentence, first, the words "the 14-day period' shall be replaced by "the 20-day period', and the word "the service' shall be replaced by "the final update' by a reasoned decision confirming or refusing to confirm. 4. A new para is being created. 5. (5) The decision under para. 4 contains: 1. the name of the issuing authority; 2. the name of the operator, the name and full address of the plant (s); 3. characteristic of the plant / equipment; 4. legal and factual grounds; 5. a description of the results of the consultations with the affected public and how they are taken into account; 6. measures to prevent major accidents with dangerous substances and to limit their consequences for human life and health and the environment; 7. an ushering part; 8. to which authority and within what time limit the decision may be appealed; 9. date of issue and signature. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes a new para. 6 and amended as follows: In the case of an undertaking or a low-risk facility, the undertaking shall be put into service after a decision confirming the GMPA is in force. 6. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: . (7) Within 3 days of the issuing of the decision under para. 4 The Director of the RIEW or an official authorised by him shall make it public on the website of the RIEW. (8) The decision under para. 4 may be appealed in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its publication. 7. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 9 And in it the words of confirmation according to para. The decision under para 2 shall be replaced by the decision under para. 4 to the operator. 8. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 10 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words shall be replaced by the (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." at least once every 5 years; (c) c. 2 the words "supplied and/or "supplied' are replaced by "supplied'; (d) c. 3 the words "the facility and/or the facility or changes in a process or in the nature, the physical form' shall be replaced by "the facility' or a change of process, or the nature or physical form, and the words "the facility and/or facility in an undertaking and/or facility' shall be replaced by the "the facility' in an undertaking/unity'; (e) c. 4 and 5 the words "the facility and/or the facility' shall be replaced by "the facility'. 9. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 and repealing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 (OJ L 153, 21.5.2012, p. 1). The operator shall forward the conclusions and I'm opening a discussion on paragraphs 16 to 19 inclusive. Stefan Shilev to speak. Here you are, Lord Shilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At first, I would like to briefly make a retrospective of what is happening right now. We have a bill proposed by a previous government, in this bill, the proposals for annulment or change are supported by the coalition that raised the current government. I mean, something really weird is going on. Why? I think things are clear to the Commission, this thing is discussed, but I would like to give some light on § 16 et seq. Of course, they're referring to § 23 and 36, which we'll talk about in a moment. These changes concern Section I of the Law on the Protection of the Environment........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The title itself, even for non-specialists, already shows that we are dealing here with facilities that would, under certain circumstances, endanger the health of the population and the quality of the environment. Therefore, the amendment proposed by the government in the Environmental Protection Act raises confusion because it could create insufficient control of the dangers of major accidents. The MoEW and the Council of Ministers may be under the momentum of the proposed changes in paragraphs 8, 9 and 13 a kind automatically and by default, without thinking too much, also proposed § 16 and the other related changes adopted as ZID by the second caretaker government. There's a major problem here, but a lot of people didn't get it maybe. I will not go into details, but the change is the result of subjective causes and conflicts and it is good that this problem will be overcome at present, since the Commission supports these changes which we, too, from GERB-SDS, are proposing. What we offer is proof that we are thinking about people and not, as some of our colleagues have just spoken. We are also thinking about economics and business, not just letting, as perhaps the coalition should have been very good at what it does. With the changes to the IDC, the division of powers between the Environmental Executive Agency and the Central Administration of the Ministry of Environment is proposed, which we are convinced will lead to difficulties both for business and for the Ministry itself. Part of the complex authorisation procedure, which is the first stage in determining the applicable procedure for planned changes to confirm the classification of undertakings with low or high risk potential as part of the procedure for approving a safety report, is proposed to move on to the management of the central administration of the Ministry of Environment and another part of that procedure to remain in the Executive Environment Agency. These changes are, first of all, against the powers of the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency, which are regulated in the Environmental Protection Act itself. In 2019, these same powers, which are now transferred to the MoEW, have returned from the MOEW to the Executive Agency, precisely in order to reduce the burden it has on business, to be able to provide one-stop shop work and to be much easier and shorter procedures, especially for companies with complex permits. You know, companies with complex permits are quite heavy businesses and here we are already talking about businesses with low and high risk potential. There is currently a re-entry of this procedure into the MoEW. This amendment would lead to an increase in the administrative burden for operators of large enterprises. I'm not gonna list the big companies. This difficulty will be a fact because issuing the complex permit or updating it is only one first stage of a very complex procedure. Currently, the holders of complex permits submit their documents to a single body of the Executive Environment Agency. The division of powers between the EEA and the central administration of the Ministry of Environment and Water will lead to difficulties both for business and for the ministry itself. If this is admitted, coordination between complex permit procedures and Seveso procedures will be reduced, which will lead to problems for businesses with high and low risk potential. In conclusion, as we know, experts generally have a significant burden on not only at regional level, but also at central level, the Minister will certainly confirm. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. These changes would lead to difficulties in certain departments and directorates of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which is why it is really justified to reject these changes. The above deficiencies are all problems to be addressed by the importer and to which no answers have been received so far. It is therefore very good that these changes were supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u138	Thank you, Mr. Shilev. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, this bill was tabled by the last caretaker government. The current composition and political governance of the Ministry of Environment and Water agree that there should be no such separation of powers from the Executive Environment Agency and the Ministry of Environment and Water. It is also a fact that in the last few years the number of files at the Ministry has increased. For the central administration, compared to for example 2017, the number of files processed by the Ministry of Environment and Water has increased by 300% year-on-year, which puts our administration in serious difficulties from the general to the specialised one. For regional environmental and water inspections, this percentage has increased to 65, which is often the cause of certain delays in the increased volume of work. However, it is a fact that the Commission also supported our idea not to have this division and, in this regard, the proposals made to the Members of the National Assembly are also made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u140	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Colleagues, are there any lines to Mr. Stefan Shilev's statement? There are no lines. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Although you took Mr. Minchev's place, I think it's nice to stick to my procedure is more to him. As the speaker of the meeting, he seized the function of the reporter and good parliamentary practice suggests that if the reporter has a temporary inability or wants to rest naturally, the bill is heavy, the report is long, it is nice not for the presiding above to continue reporting the bill, but a member of the committee itself. Mr President, bear in mind that these are specific texts that are really better developed and aware of by Commissioners, because, agree, each parliamentary committee and its members have the necessary preparation to report the bill and it is a little unprincipled for the chairman to seize this function. This was my procedure, and I thank you if this old parliamentary practice is followed in the future, the reporter should be from the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Genov, if you need assistance, you can really ask someone from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u144	For a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My procedure is rather in line with the Rules of Procedure or rather with § 3 of the Additional Provisions. It reads as follows: .................................................. The President shall, within the meaning of these Rules, be the chairman of the respective plenary sitting of the National Assembly. Therefore, Mr President, as soon as you chair, you are President and the right address to you is Mr President and not Chairman, Deputy, Leading or so on. I pay attention because many colleagues make this mistake. Let us be correct to the Rules of Procedure and to the lead of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u146	Thank you, Mr. Gazhev.................................................................................... Colleagues wishing for other statements under § 16. 19? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. My fellow Members, I ask you to take your seats, and I will put to the vote anbloc § 16 "19" which are in the Commission's version and which retain their numbering as by importer. Please, voting mode. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. In doing so, the proposals for § 16? 19 have been accepted. [[Reply.]] Revoting! Vote 97 MPs: 96 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have the floor to proceed with the Report......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u147	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "new, existing or other undertaking/unity'; (b) c. 3 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 3 and 4 the word "s' is replaced by "success'; (b) c. 5 and 6 the words "supplier' and/or "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier'. 3. In para. 4 the words "existing enterprise and/or facility' shall be replaced by "new, existing or other undertaking/ facility'; the words "the staff of the enterprise' shall be replaced by "its staff'; the words "in the undertaking' shall be deleted. 4. The creation of para. 6: The operator of an undertaking/a high risk facility shall provide the mayor of the municipality in whose territory the undertaking/a facility is located with the necessary information as determined by the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9 for the preparation of an external emergency plan. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence, first, the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "supplier'. 2. In para. 2 after the words.................................................................... is added....................................... 107, para. 6 or art. 116e, para. Four or two. 3. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "supplier" shall be added within 3 days of their preparation. (b) c. 1 shall be added at the end by providing for a period of 14 days public access to the project or its modification through the website of the municipality, where available, or by any other appropriate means. (c) create a t. 5. It's five o'clock. the director of a pool directorate where the project concerns surface and/or groundwater or water sites. 4. In para. 5 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." at appropriate intervals not exceeding three years, to review, verify and, where necessary, update the external emergency plan when: (a) issue of decisions under art. 116, para. 1 or art. 116g, para. 4; (b) receipt of information under art. 116e, para. 4; (c) the occurrence of a major accident on the territory of a high risk facility; (d) changes which have occurred in the undertaking/unity or in the relevant rescue services under the Disaster Protection Act, in the new technical knowledge and in the knowledge of the response to major accidents. 5. A new para is being created. 6: In the preparation of the external emergency plan, including on updates, the mayor shall take into account the opinions, comments and proposals received under para. 3. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it, the words "suppliers and/or facilities' shall be replaced by "suppliers/ equipments'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 21. According to § 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. Art. 116 (a) is added. 116g, para. 4............................................................................................ 2. In para. 2: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: 1 by a reasoned decision shall terminate the decisions referred to in Article. 116, para. 1, t. 1 or art. 116g, para. 4 after submission of an updated notification of classification under art. 103, para. 5 by the operator of an undertaking/a facility classified with high risk potential concerning: (b) c. 1 and 2 the words "supplier' and/or "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 23, in c. 2 after the word "Register" is added by para. 1, t. 6..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u148	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on the texts so read by Mr. Manol Genov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I will put to the vote paragraphs 20 to 24: paragraphs 20 and 21 are in the version of the Commission; § 22 is an importer; § 23 is in the version of the Commission; and § 24 is an importer with a light addition which was read by Mr Genov. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u149	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: 1 The operator of a new, existing or other high-risk facility shall submit to the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency an application for the approval of a safety report with regard to the new undertakings/aids, the report shall be submitted no later than 6 months before the submission of an application for a building permit under the Law on Construction in the Area. 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end, which shall contain the GMPGA and the GMPGA. (b) point 2 is repealed; (c) c. 3 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) With the application under para. 1 The operator may request from the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency part of the information under para. 3, p. 1 or the list of hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 shall be declared confidential when they are production or commercial secrecy and shall provide the relevant reasons therefor. 4. In para. 5 the words.................................................................................................... 1 or the documents under para. The following shall be replaced by the following: 3, p. 1 or the list of hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 5. A new para is being created. 6: The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency may determine some of the information under para. 3, p. 1 or the list of hazardous substances in Annex 3 shall be considered confidential on the grounds of para. 4 and 5. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall, within 14 days of receipt of the application, inform the operator in writing whether his request is partial or fully respected for the cases under para. 4 and 5 or for the assessment under para. 6. For the purposes of public access, a period of up to 5 days shall be fixed for the submission of a revised version of the documents in paper and electronic form which does not contain the information which has been accepted as confidential. In cases referred to in art. 114, para. 1 at the same time as the corrected and supplemented documents, a revised version of documents for public access purposes shall be submitted. 7. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. 8 and 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first the words.. 1... 3.............................................................................................. 1 and 3 and in a sentence second, the words "s' and/or "s' shall be replaced by "s'. 2. In para. 2 words. 1... 3.............................................................................................. One and three. 3. In para. 4 after the words. 112, para. The first paragraph is replaced by the following: 6 " and the words "al. " The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 4. In para. 8 words. 1.. 3.. are replaced by............................................................................................. 3, p. One and three. 5. The creation of para. 9. The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall be the Executive Director of the Executive Agency within 25 days after the expiry of the period referred to in Article 1. 114, para. 4 or from receipt of the corrected and supplemented documents under para. 8 disclose to the affected public the draft decision under art. 116, para. 1 or under art. 116g, para. 4 for a period of 14 days on your website. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 28, in c. 2 words.............................................................................. 116, para. 1 or is replaced by "al'. 1 or more. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. I'm opening the discussion. Are there any who wish to speak under paragraphs 25 " 32 "? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. I will put to the vote the following texts: § 25, which is in the version of the Commission; paragraphs 26 and 27, which are by importer; §28, which is in the version of the Commission; § 29, which is by importer, with a slight correction which was read by Mrs Sultanova; and paragraphs 30, 31 and 32, which are by importer. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u151	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116d The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "supplied" and/or "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied" after the word "supplied" by using the most appropriate means and the words "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied" and "supplied" by the RIEW Director and the Basin Directorate. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the most appropriate means is added after the words its occurrence and the most appropriate means is used; (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the available data to assess the impact of the accident on human health, property and the environment; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 33, i.e. 2 concerning para. 6 abbreviations "EEAS" is replaced by "Executive Environment Agency." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116f The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The operator of a new, existing or other high-risk plant/unity shall periodically review and update, if necessary, the safety report, including GMPGA and SMB: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." at least once every 5 years; (c) c. 3 the words "supplied' and/or "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'; (d) c. 4 words in a process or in the nature, the physical form of the process shall be replaced by a process, or by the nature or physical form of the process and the words... or may lead to the classification of the undertaking/a facility in an undertaking/a facility of low risk potential............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. The second sentence is created: "In the 7-day period of the revision of the documents under para. 1 and/or 2 the operator shall forward the conclusions/documentation to the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) When updating the internal emergency plan in the cases under para. 2 The operator shall provide information to update the external emergency plan to the mayor of the municipality concerned. 4. The creation of para. 5. . (5) In the cases referred to in para. 2 The operator shall, within 7 days, send the updated internal emergency plan to the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency and make it available to the Committee on Art. 157a, para. 2 for control purposes. According to § 36 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116h the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "On the basis of the information', is added to the classification notification by the operator and the words "s' and/or facilities shall be replaced by "s'. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 the words the enterprise's plans shall be replaced by the emergency plans of the enterprises/aids, where appropriate. 3. The creation of para. 4. . (4) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall provide the relevant operator with additional information, where available, on the immediate environment of the undertaking (s) and factors which may cause a major accident or aggravate the consequences thereof, including, where available, information on neighbouring undertakings, as well as on sites not covered by this section, areas and constructions which could be a source of or increase the risk or consequences of a major accident and the effect of the domino. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118, para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words "licensings, licences, expertises and assessments" shall be replaced by "licensings and "sweepings." 2. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." under art. Art. 67 and 78 in conjunction with art. 35 of the Waste Management Act, except for the registration of the waste collection and transport activities within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 41 and 43 of the additional provisions of the Waste Management Act; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119, para. 2, p. 3 is added at the end for change of the operator. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "update and cancel' shall be replaced by "update, cancel' and then added "to confirm/no change to the permit operator'. 2. In para. The Ministry of Environment and Water or an official authorised by the Minister of Environment and Water is replaced by or authorised by the Minister of Environment and Water. 3. In para. 4 the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added after the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121, p. 8 letter................................................................................................. 4 and the present or the present is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova, let's stop by § 40. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on § 33 to § 40. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. I will put to the vote the following texts: § 33, which is in the version of the Commission, § 34, which is an importer, with a slight correction, which was read by Mrs Sultanova, paragraphs 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40, which are also in the version of the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Mrs. Sultanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u153	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41. ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122a para. 6 and 7 are amended as follows: Within 25 days of the expiry of the period referred to in para. 5 the competent authority under art. 120, para. 1 prepares a project of a complex permit and: 1. within a three-day period, it shall provide access on its website to the design of a complex permit for equality of stakeholders for a period of 14 days; 2. within three days send the draft complex permit to the mayor of the municipality concerned for public disclosure for a period of 14 days; 3. within 20 days of the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 1. 1 and 2 shall agree the design of a complex permit with the respective RIEW and pool directorate and shall inform the operator under Article in writing. 122, para. 1 for the design of a complex permit. (7) Within 30 days of notification under para. 6, p. 3 the competent authority under art. 120, para. 1: 1. consult the operator as necessary; 2. for a period of 7 days it shall provide access on the website of the Executive Environment Agency for the outcome of the consultations under point 2. 1 as well as the coordination with the directors of the RIEW and the Basin Directorate. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the word "the soil' is replaced by "the soil'; (b) c. 12 words. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to 2. In para. 5, t. 2 the number The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. According to § 44 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 44 be rejected. According to § 45 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 45 be rejected. Under § 46, there is a proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 44. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 2 is created t. 6: It's six. the monitoring data and/or assessments show that the environmental objectives under art. 156a of the Water Act established as a water body in the RMP is not achieved or there is a risk of deterioration of the water body condition or the potential of an artificial or highly modified water body, at the request of the director of a swimming pool; According to § 47 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 47 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion on paragraphs 41 to 48. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Shishkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to say a few words under § 46, in particular, paragraph 46. 7 of the importer's proposal, and to motivate myself why I am strongly opposed to the adoption of such a text. Dear colleagues, all structures at the MOEW participate in the procedures. The RIEW shall participate at the time of issue, carry out periodic controls as well as any revision and update, including on-site visits to confirm the information submitted by the application. However, if such a case is allowed, there is a non-compliance of the installation with the conditions of the complex permit, as well as not providing information on the planned change. The RIEW may sanction and prescribe the submission of information for the revision of the complex permit. It must not be forgotten that the sanctions provided for non-information to the competent authority for any planned change in which we are here and for failure to comply with the complex permit are from 10 thousand to 500 thousand. lv. The installation may even be shut down by applying a forced administrative measure until compliance. Thus proposed, the text shows the powerlessness of the control body, colleagues. Experience is being made through vague texts to improve control with which there is practically a problem, rather than focusing efforts on capacity building, training and the introduction of unified practices in RIEW. With regard to false information presented or received, such as the definition was recorded, is a very common text. How is it proven that the information was false at the time of submission? Moreover, the complex permit is required before the building permit, which means that the facilities necessary for operation of the plant and the treatment facilities are not available at the time of submission of the information. Who's leaking the information? Every citizen, as well as any business competitor who doesn't want to have competition. In this way, a new procedure is introduced which, through this text at the moment, is extremely vague. On the other hand, the issuing authority undertakes to detect it for any information received, regardless of how and by whom it was received. This will lead to an increase in the procedures for a complex permit. In this vague text where everyone can refer to the competent authority, will it not result in blocking the work of the Executive Environment Agency? Is it really a legal analysis of how this proposal will affect the processes? For example, how many open permit procedures are currently open, how many are for revision, update and forecast increase? Last but not least, with this text, the importer practically says that the whole system, including the Environment Executive Agency, the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, pool directorates, national parks, does not work, and it does not work in the area of such a heavy and important regime, such as complex permits. The logical question is why so many bodies are needed for which a small financial resource of society is lost, and the Ministry knows that they do not work effectively and, among other things, through this text recognizes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u156	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u157	Dear Mr. Shishkov, dear colleagues! We have an example and it is for false information that is not due to the guilty conduct of the applicant and the recipient of a complex permit. If a disaster reduces the flow of water into a given river and if the flow of water into a pistachio disappears, or if this increases several times than foreseen, this may be due to the recipient's guilty behaviour, but may also be due to external factors. The editorial as proposed by Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs shall refer to art. 156a of the Water Act, which works, but is not as comprehensive as the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Stratieva. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Would you like a coat, Mr. Shishkov? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Mrs. Stratieva, the examples that were given are not one, but several. We are all aware of them, but none of them are relevant to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u160	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u161	Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to support the Commission's proposal by giving two further arguments. The competent authorities of the Ministry of Environment and Water shall be competent under certain conditions which are directly relevant to the operation of certain installations falling within the scope of complex permits. But there are other factors and other organs that could signal. Separately, this enables those texts, citizens, public benefit organisations, to alert the Minister to initiate a specific review procedure. This alone does not create a new practice and does not create any potential for administrative pressure, but the Minister should consider these signals and if he considers that they have relevance to the case, to activate, to engage the Environment Executive Agency to do these checks and a possible revision of the complex permit. Keep in mind the example given at times by external factors that are not due to misdeeds on the part of either side or corruption, but simply external factors sometimes impose new conditions. However, the environment is a dynamic environment that changes its components. This can cause such a thing and it can protect the interests of citizens and the health of citizens, because a complex permit is the instrument with which undertakings posing a risk to the environment can function in relation to the current information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u162	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Any other speeches, colleagues? There are no other speeches. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I will put to the vote § 41 and § 42, which are in the version of the Commission, § 43, which is by importer, § 44, which the Commission proposes to reject, § 45, which also proposes to reject, § 46, in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 44, § 47. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. With this, the proposals have been accepted. You have the floor, Mrs. Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 46, i.e. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 47. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154a, para. 7 words within a period of not more than 30 days shall be replaced by a period as soon as possible by a period of time as possible by a period of at least 30 days, and the words shall be replaced by a period of at least 30 days. 117 or 124 "s' are replaced by "shut up'. 117, 124 or 126 Under § 52, there is a proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 157a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added, or an official authorised by him, the words........................................................................................................... is replaced with...................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 the Minister of Environment and Waters shall be added after the words................................................................................................................... 3. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 106, para. 1, 3, 5 and 6 106, para. 1, 2, 6, 10 and 11.................................................................................... 107, para. 1, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced by the following: 107, para. Articles 1, 3, 4 and 6 and after the words Art. 1, (c) c. 5 the words "suppliers and/or facilities' are replaced by "suppliers' and the words "al'. 1... 3 and para. 5 "6 " is deleted. 4. In para. 4 is created t. 3: "3." where necessary coordinated with other compliance checks under this law or other regulations in the field of prevention of industrial pollution, emergency and fire safety or health and safety of work. 5. In para. 5 words are developed and, if necessary,.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6. In para. 7. (a) in the text before t. 1 shall be added at the end, either by the person responsible for the work; (b) c. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. 7. In para. 12 words shall be replaced by one month at the earliest possible time. 8. The creation of para. 13: The authorities referred to in paragraph 1 shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. 2 cooperate and exchange information through an appropriate mechanism and tools in order to effectively implement the requirements of Chapter Seven, Section I or the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 157b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) During the joint examination, the Chair of the Committee on Art. 157a, para. 2 draw up a constant protocol which gives mandatory prescriptions to the operator with a specified implementation period if necessary. The Constitutional Protocol shall be signed by all members of the Committee. 2. In para. 2, p. 1 shall be added after the words the Minister of Environment and Waters to or to a person authorised by him. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 53, i.e. 1 the words "synthesis" shall be replaced by the text before that. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 after the words "after" a claim shall be added and no confirmation of the GMPA under art. 106, para. 4, or
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on paragraphs 49 to 56 inclusive. Are there any people who want to make a statement, colleagues? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the following texts: § 49 which is an importer and becomes § 46; § 50 by an importer which becomes § 47; § 51 by the Commission, which becomes § 48; § 52, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 49; § 53 which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 50; § 54 by an importer and becomes § 51; § 55 by an importer and becomes § 52, and § 56, which is an importer with a slight correction by the Commission, read by Mrs Sultanova, and which becomes § 53. Vote 97 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Procedure Mr. Stefanov. Here you are, Mr. Stefanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to extend the working time of today's plenary session to the adoption of this point and of the next, which comes in order, namely the Second Voting of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Renewable Energy Act, which we started yesterday but have not finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u166	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Colleagues, are there any other proposals to extend today's meeting? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vasil Stefanov to extend today's meeting until the end of item two for today, namely a continuation of the review of the bill, which was suspended yesterday. They voted 141 MPs: 84, against 39, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Sultanova, you have the floor to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u167	Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 166a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words.. which operates without an effective decision.. are added for confirmation of the GMPA under art. 106, para. Four or two. 2. In para. 2 after the words "of them in" the GMPGA shall be added, confirmed by the decision under art. 106, para. 4 or................................................................................................................ 116, para. 1, t. Article 1 (c) is amended as follows: 116g.................................................................................. 106, para. 1, 3, 5 and 6 106, para. 1, 2, 6, 10 and 11 107, para. 1, 3, 4 and 5 107, para. One, three, four, five and six. 3. In para. 4 the word "delays' is replaced by "debts'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 57, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 29b the words "supplier and/or facility' are replaced by "supplier', everywhere the words "supplier' and/or facilities' are replaced by "supplier', and the words "supplier' and/or "supplier' are replaced by "supplier'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 29d the words "the facility and/or the facility' shall be replaced by "the facility'. 3. In point (a), point (a) is (a) in (a) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j) in (j), the words (j) in (j) in (b) in point (b) after the word (s) being added to or after 1 June 2015, the words (s) with dangerous substances as at 1 June 2015 or after that date (s) shall be replaced by its list of hazardous substances, shall be converted to (s) and the words (s) with low potential (s) shall be replaced by (s) returned. 4. A t is created. 31f: It's 31. "Another enterprise/ equipment' is an operating site covered by Chapter Seven, Section I, or a low-risk undertaking/a facility which becomes an undertaking/a facility with high risk potential or vice versa, by or after 1 June 2015, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph 1. 31 г................................................................. 5. A t is created. 71a: ..71a. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 6. A t is created. 77: I'm sorry, The use of waste is the use within the meaning of § 1, point (c) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 13 of the additional provisions of the Waste Management Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In § 9, para. 2 of the transitional and closing provisions is created sentence 4 "Complete of failed programmes after 31 December 2025 is a liability and is at the expense of the buyer for the privatisation transaction and the privatized company and/or their successors. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment (prom., SG No. 62, 2015; amend., No. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 22 December 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation 1. In § 24, after the word "existing', the words "s' and "s' shall be replaced by "s'. 2. In Paragraph 25, after the word "existing', the words "s' and "s' shall be replaced by "s'. 3. In § 26, the words "suppliers and/or facilities' shall be replaced by "successaries' and, finally, after the words "supplied', the operators of other undertakings/ equipments with high risk potential shall be obliged to submit the documents under art. 107, para. 1 by 1 June 2017................................................................................................................................ 4. In § 27, the words supplied the relevant documents and submitted them to the competent authority and were replaced by an existing or other undertaking/unity already sent the relevant documents to the competent authority in accordance with the requirements of national law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ In Annex 5 to art. 111, para. 1, t. 3, in point I, point 2 all over the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In Annex 8 to art. 123, para. 1, t. 1, item II, item II. 13 after the word Under § 63, there is a proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 63 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Colleagues, I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 57 to 63, as well as the proposal for the creation of a new § 54. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Are there any speeches, colleagues, on these texts? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I will put to the vote the following texts: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 54; § 57, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 55; § 58, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 56; the proposal to create a new § 57; § 59, which is by importer and becomes § 58; § 60, which is by importer and becomes § 59; § 61, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 60; § 62, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 61, and the proposal to reject § 63. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u169	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 64, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The procedures initiated until the entry into force of this Act under Section III of Chapter Six, in which the competent authorities have been consulted on the EIA decision on the scope and content of the EIA, shall be completed in the current order. According to § 65 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 65 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 64. According to § 68 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 68 be rejected. According to § 69 there is a proposal of the MPs Stefan Shilev, Ivan Totev and Radomir Cholakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 69 be rejected. According to § 70 there is a proposal of the MP Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 70 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 56. Proposal of the MP Evgenia Alexieva and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within 9 months of the entry into force of this Act, operators of undertakings/aids which, from 1 June 2015 until the entry into force of this Act, fall within the scope of this Act. 31f of the additional provisions shall be aligned with the requirements of Chapter 7, Section I and of the ordinance referred to in art. 103, para. 9. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 71, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. Colleagues, I open the discussion on so-read texts. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I will put to the vote the proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, namely the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Evgenia Alexieva, to create a new § 72. We are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Evgenia Alexieva, not supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 32, against 77, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the following texts: the name of the division which is by importer; § 64 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 62; the Commission's proposal to reject § 65; § 66 which is by importer and becomes § 63; § 67 which is by importer and becomes § 64; the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 68, 69 and 70; the proposal to create a new § 65, and § 71, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 66. Please, voting mode. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. With this, the proposals have been adopted and the Second Voting Bill. [[Applause.]] Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova, and thank you to Mr. Genov. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda, namely: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION AND ADDUCTION OF THE LAW FOR THE ENERGY OF RENEWABLE SOURCES Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? [[Reply from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] Yes, Mr. Shishkov, you're listed. Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the first draft bill you have adopted in the framework of this mandate regarding environmental protection and moving on to the next renewable energy bill. I would like to comment on the changes relating to the Code of Conduct on the territory. And even though § 1 was already adopted yesterday, I will also allow myself a few comments on the texts of art. 25a. Colleagues from our parliamentary group have already commented on the possibilities for circumventing the Law and abuse of the introduced relief. By the way, you have made some attempt to comply with the opinion of the institutions, which we admire, but you have done so in a most inadequate manner, colleagues. Because as you have formulated the long sentence of art. 25a, para. 1, multiple possibilities are created for different interpretations, and vague legislation, you know, leads to uncontrolled practices. In relation to para. 5 is good that you thought to make some protection. You made one defense, but you missed a very important other defense. The installation will already be built as category six, colleagues, i.e. there will be no investment project, but will be used as category three. Therefore, it is good not to read the legislation fragmented, but in full. With this protection in quotes, you surround the Law on the Structure of the Area and make the Law even more dangerous and even more unfair. I'll give you an example to illustrate it. Take, for example, two commercial entities, two companies. One firm has a sly lawyer, let's call it, who read the Law carefully and find the loophole that you left them in art. 25, para. 5. They're going along with the short procedure, making some kind of statement, which is two sides of a constructor, two sides of an el. An engineer brings them into the municipality, gets their building permit, builds their installation of 5 megawatts, and it all ends here with the documents. All this happens within a month, two, three, four maximum. There is no admission committee, there are no people who measure on the spot whether everything that is built is right. They issue an application, make an annex to the contract, then have the opportunity to sell the energy they produce, without any additional administrative requirements, i.e. from subject sixth category, bypassing the Law, make it a third category object without absolutely no control. The other firm, which doesn't have that many lawyers, starts the long way. It starts with PSUs, environmental assessments, EIAs, building permits, building, putting into service, all the acts that are necessary, acceptance committee. All this takes about two years. What do we have at the finish line? One firm will start selling its energy in three or four months, the other will start selling it in two years, the first firm has paid several times less administrative fees and has saved nearly a year and a half of walking in pain, so to speak. This is what you are doing with this bill, which gives you the opportunity to surround the Law in an extremely rude way. You're circling the territory structure law, colleagues. With regard to the changes in § 3, art. 124 of ZUT. During the debates during the first vote of the Bill, I argued that with this slight correction you derogate a whole section of the Law. Dear colleagues, the discussion on the process of general planning cannot and should not be in the RES Act. This discussion requires a thorough debate and participation of all persons involved in the preparation and adoption of the common planning plans. Colleagues, the aim of the common development plans is to create conditions for sustainable development in the territory, as well as to ensure predictability of the investments made by citizens and businesses. This is the philosophy of this type of strategic paperwork. With the current adjustment, which appears for vague reasons, with no motives in the RES Act, which in absolutely no way corresponds to the basic texts, you practically align the general planning plans to the detailed planning plans, make the whole process of their adoption meaningless. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Colleagues, don't do this. This is neither the place nor now is the time to do this. You will open Pandora's box. I have a few words for the rest of the bill, but I see my time is up. If I get a chance, I'll keep going in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u172	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Hey, guys, any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u173	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u174	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-26.u175	There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, just one minute to figure out what is to be voted on by the proposals, and I will put them to the vote. As far as I can see, unsupported proposals from the Commission, there is one for Mr. Dobrev, which was withdrawn yesterday. I am going to put to the vote: the name of the division in the version of the Commission; § 2 "in the version of the Commission; § 3 "in the version of the Commission; and a proposal to create a new § 4. Please vote on these texts. 140 MPs voted: 99, Against 9, abstention 32. The Second Voting Bill has also been adopted with this. Colleagues, before closing the meeting, I will read to you the parliamentary control message to be held tomorrow, 27 May 2022 at 9.00: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Kiril Petkov will answer a question by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski, Halil Letifov and Stanislav Anastasov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policy and Water Minister Borislav Sandov will answer four questions from the MPs Vladimir Tabutov; Rositsa Kirova; and Denitsa Simeonova. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadzhov will answer seven questions from the MPs Adlen Shevked, Bajram Bajram, Pavlin Krastev and Mukaddes Nalbant; Nikolina Angelkova; Stoil Stoilov; Nikolay Nankov; Alexander Nestorov; Branim Balachev and Dimitar Nikolov. 4. The Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov will answer three questions from the MPs Tsveta Galunova; and Lyuben Dilov and Toma Bikov two questions, and one question from the MP Lyubomir Karimanski. 5. The Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov will answer two questions from the MPs Nikolina Angelkova; and Slavena Tocheva and one question from the MPs Neby Kabak and Mumun Mumun. 6. Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov will answer 80 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov; Elhan Kulkov; Pavlin Krastev; Adlen Shevked; Bajram; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Halil Letifov; Sevim Ali; Escheref Escheref; Stanislav Anastasov; Petar Chobanov; Sezgin Mehmed; Dimitar Avramov; Ramadan Ataly; Guner Ahmed; Tsvetan Enchev; Fatme Ramadan; Erjan Ebatin; Jordan Tsonev; Ahmedov; Neby Kabak; Mumun Mümun; Alexander Nestorov; Mustafa Karadayi; Jayan Ibryamov; Ihsan Hakev; Mario Rangelov; Imren Mehmedova; Alizan Yahanov. 7. Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska will answer two questions from MPs Rumen Hristov and Hristo Gazhev. 8. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer one question from the MP Denitsa Sacheva. 9. Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov will answer a question from the MP Hristo Gazhev. 10. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer a question from the MP Vasil Zashkev. 11. The Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer two questions from the MPs Alexander Nestorov and Blagovest Kirilov, Krum Zarkov and Ivan Petkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Council of Ministers will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control because of a business trip outside the country. The Minister of Health Asena Serbenova and the Minister of Energy Aleksandar Nikolov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. For lack of respectable reasons of the MP Petar Petrov, the answer to his question to the Minister of Culture Atanas Atanasov is postponed. Colleagues, the next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held on 27 May 2022 at 9.00 on the already announced and adopted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
