ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please take your seats and proceed to registration. Honourable Members, 125 Members of Parliament are registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. Please show the result of the registration in groups. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, The project for the weekly Programme by the President of the National Assembly is as follows: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 27 May 2022. Adopted in first vote on 14 July 2022. 2. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Importers are Anton Tonev, Georgi Mihailov, Ivaylo Hristov and Alexander Simidchiev, 20 July 2022. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Structure of the Area. Importers are Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, 10 June 2022; Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs, 23 June 2022; Alexander Dunchev, 24 June 2022; Snezhanka Trayanska and a group of MPs, 7 July 2022. 4. Second voting of the Law on the ratification of an international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to the Letter with tender and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB "F-16 Block 70 aircraft and related support", international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA "Boe supplies" to support F-16 (Mounitions in support of the F-16), international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X block II missiles, related materials and services (Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II Misiles, associated and services) and international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM" Importer is the Council of Ministers, 29 June 2022. Adopted in first vote on 20 July 2022. 5. First vote on the Anti-Corruption Bill. Importers are Andrey Gurov and a group of MPs, 9 June 2022. 6. Draft law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 15 July 2022. 7. Draft Law on ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Support between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 26 July 2022. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law. Importers are Petar Kyosev and a group of MPs, 15 June 2022. 9. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers are the Council of Ministers, 1 July 2022; Petar Kyosev, 5 July 2022. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 2 June 2022. Adopted in first vote on 20 July 2022. 11. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly supplier Desislava Atanasova, 16 June 2022, and the election of the President of the National Assembly. 12. Draft decision on the adoption of the National Assembly legislative programme for the period July "December 2022." The contributors are Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, 26 July 2022. Point 1 for Thursday, 28 July 2022 13. First vote on bills to supplement the Public Procurement Act. Importers are Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs, 16 June 2022; Nastimir Ananiev, Bogomil Petkov and Julia Ivanova, 19 July 2022. On Friday 29 July 2022, point 1 is replaced by the following: 14. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the weekly Programme proposed by the President of the National Assembly. Vote 216 MPs: 120 against 95, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals under art. 47, para. 3. There has been a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid for inclusion in the weekly Programme of the Draft Decision reflecting Constitutional Court Decision No 3 of 28 April 2020 in constitutional case No 5/2019, submitted by Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. This draft decision is allocated to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Energy Commission. Accordingly, there are no reports received, and the 15-day deadline for these reports has not expired. Accordingly, the proposal is not admissible under the Rules of Procedure and should not be put to the vote. The situation is identical with the proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev, who wants to be included in the weekly Program the same decision of the Constitutional Court, so it is not admissible and should not be put to the vote. A proposal has been submitted by the MP Desislava Atanasova with a request for inclusion in the weekly Programme of the following point: Draft decision to determine the marginal prices of motor fuels. Introduced by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. This draft decision is also allocated to the Energy Commission and the Economic Policy and Innovation Commission. There are no opinions. The 15-day period, respectively in accordance with art. 47, para. 3 and this request is inadmissible and should not be put to the vote. There has been a request from the National Representative Daniel Mitov to include a Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the verification of the circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from the "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from the "Bulgargaz" EAD No 47-253-87-1, adopted at a meeting of the Commission on 26 July 2022. The proposal is admissible, so I put it to the vote. Please vote on the proposal of the MP Daniel Mitov. Vote 219 MPs: 113 against 67, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. [[Revoking lines.]] We're revoting, colleagues. We're going over Mr. Mitov's proposal. They voted 223 MPs: 116, against 73, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. There has been a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid for inclusion in the weekly Programme of the Ratification of the F-16 Treaty. It is included in the Programme and will therefore not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u2	How can it not be put to the vote?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u3	Mr. Tsonev, please come in for a procedure. [[Heckling]] This is for F-16, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u4	Yeah, yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u5	Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making two procedural proposals. The first is t. 4 to become t. 1. That's what Mr. Hamid suggested. He proposed it as point two, but since you did not allow to vote the proposal for KEWRC, i.e. 4 I suggest to become t. 1... our first proposal. The second is the program to drop the item. 12, as this is absolutely unacceptable. I told the Conference of Presidents and colleagues from many parliamentary groups agreed that the Parliament should adopt a legislative programme for a period of five six months is a legal nihilism, constitutional nihilism. There is no such procedure in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the contrary, the agenda adoption procedures are accurate and clearly indicated how it is adopted, what period of time and the maximum period is two weeks. Not to mention that conditions for forming a government are not adopted by a decision of the National Assembly. If someone wants to carry out a fruitful mandate that has been served on him, he must find a way to form a governing coalition, not by a decision of the plenary. If we have a debate on this subject, I will give you further arguments. For now, the procedure is for dropping the t. 12 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I am expressing my opposite opinion, as nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it forbidden for the National Assembly to plan its activities. What we offer is different from art. 47, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, which refer to a programme for the work of the National Assembly. We are talking here about a legislative programme that provides a guide to the necessary legislation, which should be decided by the National Assembly in the next six months or five months rather by the end of the year. From now on, on the basis of this programme, the assessment of the National Assembly is when and in what way these texts, these bills will be imported, respectively, into the weekly Programme of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Colleagues, before continuing with the procedures related to adding, excluding items from the agenda, with their renumbering as a sequence in the weekly Programme, let's just run out of all requests under para. 3. There's another one, it's Mr. Hristo Gajev's. Mr. Gazhev, your request should be corrected and specified. Accordingly, I will not put it to the vote, as it is unclear. [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev wants the floor.]] It's unclear for several reasons. I'll give you the floor, of course. You indicated that you wanted under art. 103, para. 4 to implement this procedure, which says in general: "When ministers do not answer questions and questions, they should be heard. You have indicated that four ministers should be called at such a hearing, respectively Deputy Prime Ministers, but you have not indicated exactly what the failures are. In other words, it cannot be assessed whether or not there is such a failure. There is another discrepancy and it is that you have actually indicated that you want a hearing and this hearing to be included under para. 3. But the hearing, which we can allow by para. Article 3 shall be in the order of Article 3. 110 of the Rules of Procedure. You have explicitly indicated that you want under art. 103, para. 4 but therefore you have not given any arguments as to why you want this hearing. So I should not put your request to a vote. Here you go, Mr. Gazhev, then I'll give Mr. Petrov my word. [[Heckling]] Yeah, yeah, I'll give you guys an opportunity one at a time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My proposal is actually directed at you, in fact, to implement the Rules. There are so far, there are actually five, I have missed the Minister of Tourism, who do not respond to parliamentary questions asked by MPs from all parliamentary groups. As a recordmaker in this regard is the Minister of Transport, who has not responded to. "Democratic Bulgaria".There is such a people., GERB and..We are continuing the Change. It's been a month! Where are the grounds? The reasons are on the website of the National Assembly, entitled "Parliamentary Control." Within 30 seconds, colleagues from "Parliamentary control" can consult you and see how many people are not, how many questions are not answered and how many of them the deadlines have expired more than two weeks ago, that is, the ten days have long since passed, so they must fulfil their obligations under law, namely to report and explain why they do not meet the MPs. I repeat, not the MPs of the opposition, not even the MPs of the government are not responding! Well, he's got a good job getting fired, but let's at least let them do their job by the end of their responsibilities as ministers. Even if they're already hiking, they'll find time to do their job. So, this is the main thing, you can do it in exactly the same way, bet it and do it, by the way, the Rules, because it is your duty to follow the Rules, isn't it? As for the procedure, if point 12 actually remains on the agenda, I have one request to the importers to remove from the world parliamentary practice, from Magna Charter, for all parliamentary democracies in the world in the last 400 years when does parliament legally adopt a legislative programme of parliament? There is no such miracle in the history of parliament. You're innovators, and that's what you bring back to parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Specifically for your request, please bring it in line with what I have done as a remark, and a day and an hour will be fixed at which the respective ministers referred to by you will be heard. Mr. Peter Petrov wanted the floor for procedure. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedural proposal concerns item 5 of the agenda and the examination of the first vote on the Anti-Corruption Act. From what I see from the National Assembly's website, although this bill has been allocated to four portfolio committees, there is only a report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on July 20th. I see, and it is fragile for me, even though the Anti-Corruption Act itself has been allocated to the Commission on Prevention and Counter-Corruption, there is no report from this committee. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, and there is no report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order in which I am also a member. I don't remember going through that bill. Although there was a public discussion of this bill yesterday, without commenting on the value of this public discussion and its benefit, since it has already been adopted at the Commission's first vote, there is still a public discussion to be made, I believe that this bill should not be considered, discussed and voted in plenary at the first vote today, as it is clear to everyone that it expresses only some political proclamations of certain political groups in order to retain its power in any way. Therefore, my procedural proposal, Mr President, is to put it to the vote, item 5 of the agenda to be dropped, at least until the bill in the relevant committees is examined, including the anti-corruption bill. If you could possibly disprove me that there are reports from the relevant committees, then I will make a procedure for you to comply, but that is now up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. This bill was submitted on June 9th. It is located on the website of the National Assembly since then. Accordingly, as you said, a public discussion was also held yesterday, reviewed by the committee responsible. The fact that it has not been examined by the other committees or will not be examined is no reason not to be included in the weekly Programme, at least according to the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. To reach this point, it can therefore be examined, reports from other committees may also take place. The colleagues from GERB Mrs. Atanasova will then give the floor to Mr. Karadayi. Mrs. Atanasova, come in. Of course, Mr. Petrov, I will put your procedural proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my proposal is for a serious change in the agenda of the National Assembly. In any case, Mr President, your decision not to allow the draft decisions submitted by MPs from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Committee of the European Parliament Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the parliamentary group of GERB, but they will later present this request to the Chair of the KEWRC. And at the Presidential Council, Mr President, we have pointed out to you that in this way you deliberately block the work of this body, on which serious and important decisions are to be made, namely regarding the price of electricity, gas, water and so on, in the various configurations. We do not object to you having a procedure again if it is, of course, constitutional and according to the legal requirements, but until the moment you have a procedure, and when you do, because I remind you that it will probably be the last working day of the National Assembly on Friday, you cannot leave the KEWRC in a pending situation and all energy. I therefore urge you to reconsider the proposals of colleagues and these drafts of decisions if they are not included on the agenda, and to proceed in another way, and by your letter, Mr. President, this is a rule back in the years, there is such parliamentary practice, to inform the KEWRC that their chairman is Ivan Ivanov. Secondly, I propose that item 5 be removed from the agenda, because yesterday there was one announced outside of all principles of our rules public discussion, at which public discussion you were present at the beginning, Mr President, and there lawyers did not say a positive or good word about this bill. On the contrary, they said opinions that would perhaps at some point become public because at the beginning of this public discussion you or someone from the administration had banned, first, the access of journalists and their notification that such public discussion would take place, there was no such information on the website of the National Assembly, and subsequently, until we at GERB reacted that this discussion was publicly not transmitted directly through online broadcasting, after more than an hour you allowed this to happen. This is my second proposal to drop point 5 from the agenda. My third proposal has also already been made "point 12" has no place in the legislative programme. This is a cheap PR trick of the terminator Mrs. Ninova [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , to show his concern for the decisions to be taken in this country. You don't have time, gentlemen. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Neither will there be a cabinet nor this legislative programme be implemented, at least the National Assembly will decide to solve the crises that you have caused with your seven-month governance. Thank you. [[Applause and banging on the banks from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Gochev for a reverse opinion, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing the opposite opinion, and I believe that item 5 should remain on the agenda. And I also ask you, the things that are spoken from this tribune, to make sure that they are correct, faithful, accurate. What was said was not a good word for this bill. If you had stayed, Mrs. Atanasova, until the end, you would have heard that 90% of the people who were there said that they supported the Law in principle. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] What many people said was that there was a need for cosmetic changes between first and second readings. And if you have such observations for any inaccuracies, I ask you to say them in writing and vote them out. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. And I will take advantage of my two minutes in connection with what Mrs. Atanasova said, because there were a lot of things that did not correspond to the truth, namely in relation to the discussion of the Anti-Corruption Act. On the contrary, journalists were admitted from the very beginning, there were several cameras from the very beginning and they were broadcasting live. And the live broadcast on the National Assembly website happened somewhere in about 15 minutes. It is not true what you said that more than an hour has not been broadcast, so for all Bulgarian citizens this discussion was public, had access by journalists to the Commission meeting. So, Mrs. Atanasova, what you said is not true. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Apart from that, as Mr. Gochev said, there were many positive opinions, but this is already another topic. Whether or not the National Assembly will continue its work after Friday, we currently have no indication of this. That was my position at the Conference of Presidents. [[Comments and laughter from GERB SDS.]] If you have any additional information, if President Radev has in any way told you that he will disband the National Assembly on Friday, please let us know if he is. [[Laughter at GERB SDS]] [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor for procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no need for the stars to speak to us since there are Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I think these rules apply to you as well. The second topic in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, you, within the framework of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, have failed to align your behaviour and practice from this position you are currently in. You have not been able to determine which topics you will be waiting for infinity reports, even though you have committed outrage and have put the state in an inability to prepare for the upcoming in-depth crises, and you are currently drawing the state into the abyss, meaning for which topics you will not be waiting for committee reports, for which you will be waiting. For example, for the KVER after the outrage you have done, and for them you have been warned, you will have to be told by the stars that we must make a decision within this week because the National Assembly is on vacation on August 1st. But back to the People's Court no matter who, where and in what way tells you that you should not, you insist on having a People's Court. Moreover, not only do you not understand, you do not even know, but do not want to know what it is and how the political party functions. But the centenary knows very well. The centenary (communists) have forgotten, however, that there is a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, carried out 1991, and art. 1 of the Communist Constitution has been cancelled. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] In this way, the leading role of the parties is in the party forums, not in the state, and from this point of view you put on the agenda of the National Assembly topics that are for the party forums, and as we have seen them from the last days and read them in the media that they are considered in party forums where they belong, excuse me, I cannot understand you either. But the Bolsheviks on the right, on the left, and their grandchildren obviously will not apply other democratic methods, they are not familiar with democratic instruments. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS]] Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Any other procedures? Mrs. Kirova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to you in the manner of conduct. Do not allow subjective assessments to be made of this tribune, in the case of the Commission, which was yesterday, and for public discussion, what is the percentage of positive or negative opinions. Because I have remained until the end of the Commission, a colleague from "We are continuing the Change" and there was not a single opinion that did not point out extremely serious shortcomings in the proposed legislative change. There were people from the speakers who said they agreed that the Commission should be divided and that it is the right direction to seek some legislative changes. But all that was proposed was a point by point disproved by the various speakers at this forum, if that's what I can call it, because I don't think it was a public discussion. In this regard, Mr President, I suggest that you take advantage of your right to be President of the National Assembly and withdraw this item from the agenda because, apart from the fact that there is no public agreement, a legislative framework is proposed that will as much distort the entire legislative process from here on out. The haste in adopting such a legislative change will lead to similar constitutional consequences as we had with the election of the President of the KEWRC. And I do not wish this National Assembly such a disaster at the end of legislative activity, if I may call legislative activity everything we have done during these seven months. Let's stop here, let's give ourselves a chance to rethink these changes. A public consensus can be reached on what changes to the KKCONPI Act can be made and we can do something useful for the whole society. Otherwise, it is clear that the frame creates a bat? No one wants it and no one needs it. So I will ask you to withdraw this item from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. After all, this is a first vote, and as such, it is the House that will decide whether or not this bill should be adopted, whether it is fit or not, whatever considerations you have made, in essence, which do not belong here. [[Replication by MP Yordan Tsonev. Noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, are you in touch with the program? Come in, Mrs. Petkova. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u22	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we are witnessing the total gap between the current agenda of the society and the agenda of the Bulgarian Parliament. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. One of the most important topics, which today excites the Bulgarian society, is related to the activities of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the created absolutely serious problem in the country as a result of the illegal decision that you of the ruling majority on 9 February 2022 have taken as unconstitutionally elected Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. And now that we of the opposition offer you a solution with which the KEWRC will continue to work legally by restoring legitimately the elected President Ivan Ivanov, you refuse to include on the agenda of the National Assembly this extremely important topic, an extremely important point. Bulgarian citizens are interested in how they will survive the winter, what the price of gas will be, the price of electricity. They don't care about other things. I am not saying that they are less important, but against the background of this problem there is no way to close our eyes and not put this item on the agenda. I hope you have read and read the Constitutional Court's ruling, but I hope you have also learned the lessons from what is written inside. Have you seen what you've broken, Mr. Chairman and colleagues of the ruling majority? You violated the rule of law, violated political pluralism and equality.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u23	We understand you, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u24	By the way, Mr. Chairman, these are the main features of your government. You will remain in history precisely because you do not respect the rule of law and that political pluralism and equality mean nothing to you. I call on you to act responsibly as President of Parliament and to include this item in today's agenda. We are here, people have sent us not to cause problems, but to solve them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u26	Once again, Mr. Chairman, let me try. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you. It is clear that the KEWRC currently has no chairman and it is clear that we cannot leave the KEWRC without having a chairman. The colleagues Hamid Hamid and Delyan Dobrev have proposed two drafts of a solution, which we ask you to enter the agenda. So, please get on the agenda, not for anything else, but so we can discuss the matter. Because our procedures are such that if we do not have an item on the agenda, we cannot even comment on the topic of chairman of the KEWRC. Do you understand? We do not have such a procedure, and this is the most important political and organizational issue at the moment. If you allow, colleagues, these items on the agenda and we hold, albeit a brief debate, you will understand that there is a precedent in 1997. The Constitutional Court declared the appointment of the Director-General of BNT and BNR Stefan Dimitrov and Lilyana Popova as unconstitutional on 6 November 1997. Please let us debate to recall this case, because then the National Assembly has found a very quick and very simple solution, and by the way, for the first time proposed by Mr. Luben Kornezov, supported by Yordan Sokolov, President of the National Assembly, supported by Ekaterina Mihailova, supported by Ivo Atanasov. Let's get these points in, have the conversation, and you'll see how our predecessors 1997 found a quick and elegant solution and the state was calmed down. Why don't you want us to calm the state down and really calm the public down? Please, let's watch these dots.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Nestorov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Anti-Corruption Act is being proposed, but I would like to remind you that a point was adopted in this House just now, which was drawn up yesterday, a report by the Temporary Commission for Stopping the Supply by Gazprom. In order to have an archin for measuring corruption, it must be made clear how, in what way, the sector of natural gas is managed in the Bulgarian energy sector. So I suggest that this point be the first one today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to guide you. I am amazed at the proposed item No. 12, which is fixed at item one for Thursday, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The BSP parliamentary group has, of course, the right to give me counterarguments from the stands if it wants to. Colleagues, to emphasise why it is important for this House to vote to drop this item. Although Mr President, you, in violation of our Rules of Procedure, are proposing a point which, by adopting it, Members, is violating the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, because it is fixed on what drafts the plenary will possibly work on, such as by the Rules of Organisation and Procedure, colleagues and Mr President, naturally, a week of plenary is voted on, so I ask you to reconsider this decision and to drop this point. The other, Mr President, with my fellow Members, I support the view that the Temporary Commission, which investigates the facts and circumstances of the interruption of the gas supply by the "Gszprom" should be considered, because otherwise I am not optimistic that after this Friday this National Assembly will function. In this way, if the report is not addressed in this weekly programme, it will remain only for the colleagues who have been in the Commission. And I think that this is an important issue for society and it interests quite a lot of citizens and businesses. I think we need to look at it today to make it clear all the reasons that led to this interruption, suspension, submission or whatever it was, but we need to understand it from the Report. The other, Mr. Chairman, is on item 5. I could not follow the public discussion, which was held yesterday under the Anti-Corruption Act, but I was able to meet a live broadcast and then the words of Mr. Hristo Ivanov were that there were two opinions.. one was of Mrs. Lena Borislavova and the other colleagues from the parliamentary group... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u31	Mr. Ivanov, what is the procedure in relation to t. Five? There's already been a request to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u32	Point five, Mr President, precisely because of this fact to be dropped, because I do not see what the importance is anyway is at first reading. For next week I am not optimistic that this National Assembly will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, since procedures are already starting to repeat, if some of the points are dropped, the procedures that are required to be done will also be meaningless. So we start by voting on the proposals made. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev.]] Mr. Dobrev, I'll give you a chance after we pass a few votes. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm voting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u34	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u35	Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Tsonev's procedure should have been voted on half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u36	Yeah, I agree...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u37	So there was a procedure, there was a reverse opinion, and it was time to move on to the vote. Then you will have the opportunity for procedures. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] Later, Mr. Yordanov. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Desislava Atanasova. 12 off the agenda. Vote 224 MPs: 117 against 106, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] We're revoting, colleagues. We're going over the motion to drop the item. 12 on the agenda. Vote 226 MPs: 119, against 106, abstention 1. With this the proposal is accepted and so on. 12 out of the weekly program. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Petrov and Desislava Atanasova. Five... [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Yes, Mr. Hamid, I'm aware. I'll put her through, just a moment. Let's see what goes down and what stays in the program and then we rearrange. The proposal of Petar Petrov and Desislava Atanasova 5 drop out of the weekly program. Please, voting mode. 226 MPs voted: 102, 121, abstention 3. That's why the offer isn't accepted. We're revoting, colleagues, the proposal. Five down. Vote 228 MPs: for 101, against 123, abstention 4. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I am now voting on the proposal made by Mr. Tsonev. 4 to be t. 1 of the weekly Programme. Vote 226 MPs: 108, against 50, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. [[Heckling]] We're overreacting. They voted 224 MPs: for 106, against 51, abstention 67. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I now put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Nestorov, I think Mr. Ivanov also supported it, namely: the point that we included in the order of art. 47, para. 3, namely the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of the natural gas from OOO, Gazprom Export and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz "EAD" to be the first item of the weekly programme. They voted 223 MPs: 106, against 83, abstention 34. That's why the offer isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u38	Revoting! Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u39	There's a request for a re-vote. We're revoting, colleagues. They voted 223 MPs: 119, against 79, abstention 26. That's how the offer is accepted. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Procedure with the weekly program? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor. Then Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u40	Please finally give the floor to Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u41	Okay. Mr. Dobrev, you go first. However, I am giving the parliamentary group to express the opinion of the entire group, but if this is the decision.... please come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this week's program is again missing the point most important for the Bulgarian society: the price of fuels. Last week you explained to us that this point must first pass through the Energy Commission. But guess what? Last week, the Energy Commission was not scheduled for Wednesday, then canceled, Thursday and Friday there was time, could have been after the extended meeting, but such a commission was not held last week. That is to say, we confirm the conclusion that the state may not have a majority, however, "Lukoil" and "Litasko" have a majority in this Parliament. The President of the National Assembly shall have a majority in this Parliament, Mr President, or the same "Lukoil" and "Litasko" have the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u43	There's no procedure. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u44	My procedure for you is one: to tell me whether the majority of the National Assembly, the ruling majority, does not allow this item to be placed on the agenda, or do you not include it yourself? The material interest in this is 10 million. lv. a day. There is sufficient means for this item not to be on the agenda and, as you can see, colleagues, two weeks of fuel theme is not addressed in this National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u45	Mr. Dobrev, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u46	Procedure! How long will I wait?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u47	Yes, Mr. Yordanov, I've slowed down, and I'll give you your word. Wait a minute! Mr. Dobrev, you have the opportunity to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Energy Commission and you have that right. You didn't do it, so I should also accuse you of serving interest for 10 billion. lv. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u48	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u49	Here you are, you have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u50	Mr. Chairman, your comment confirms in me the opinion that you are the representative of Lukoil (Lukoil) and Litasko (Litasko). Thank you. [[(Shouting:) Bravo! Bravo! (Applause from GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u51	Everyone has a right to an opinion, I don't know these people, nor do I serve anyone's interests. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u52	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Why are we meeting at the chairman's council with you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u53	To see you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u54	It is evident to see you, because, as I recall, and there is a record of these councils, there is a representative of the people of the people who should swear. You said you'd do it at the beginning of the session. Now it is clear to you that you wanted a re-vote so that there would be one less person than there is such a people, but we talked about it. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] Why? The MP has been standing outside for an hour and can't get in to swear! Do I have to remind you that there is someone who should swear at Victoria Vassileva's place? And why were we at this chairman's council after you said you would do it this way? You don't remember, forget or do anything else?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u55	Mr. Yordanov, thank you for this procedure. I told you that the oath would be before the start of a item on the agenda and remind you that there is another Member of Parliament from the "Keep the Change" which also waits outside for an hour to swear. [[Noise and lines.]] There has never been a single vote before.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u56	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u57	Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. You were obliged to put the proposals to the vote, just as the Members of the National Assembly submitted them in a procedure or in accordance with the procedure in accordance with art. 47, para. 3. Until now, Mr. Chairman, you have not put to the vote the proposal of Hamid Hamid and Stanislav Anastasov, Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova and Zhecho Stankov for a decision for the Chairman of the KEWRC. I ask you to put these two proposals to the vote and, if accepted, to become item two of the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Atalay, were you for procedure? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to ask you not to interrupt me in two minutes. Colleagues, I know it's very difficult to convince people who are convinced that they are wrong, and not because I say so, but because the Constitutional Court told you so. Just six months ago, we spit out tonsils from this tribune to explain to you that this is not the way to change the president of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. And today the agenda of society, colleagues, whether it is the 72th Law of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, whether it is what you are struggling with today to send us to deal with the Energy Commission in order to resolve a legal issue resolved by the Law on Energy and by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Mr. Chairman, I expected from your political formation today to come up with a decision and to do everything possible for Ivan Ivanov to take his place as President of the Commission, because since yesterday there is a farm that should end the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and you do not have a chair. Why are you struggling? Why don't you take that decision, which is a legal, constitutional decision, to make a first point consideration of the decisions of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, GERB. If you have, colleagues, amendments and additions to these decisions, we accept them. If you want, fellow Members, recognize them as the.. We continue the Change. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But if you do not do so, we will find ourselves in another inability to do so today is the third day since Ivan Ivanov has to take his place as chairman. If you continue this way and want to create more chaos in energy, you should know that society will not forgive you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Colleagues, I have two messages to read to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u62	Put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u63	I have already spoken on the proposals under art. 47, para. 3 of the subs, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u64	Do you guys hear each other?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u65	First message: On 22 July 2022, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 8 of 21 July 2022 of the Constitutional Court of Constitutional Case No 4/2022. By its Decision the Constitutional Court declared an unconstitutional decision of the National Assembly of 9 February 2022 to elect a Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The next message is this: The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of aircraft with crew members of the Korean Air Force and of the composition of the Air Force of Greece. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage. In view of the country's defence on export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, permissions to fly into the airspace should be granted to the States concerned following a positive opinion from the competent authorities in these areas...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The notifications were received from 22 to 26 July 2022, respectively by IC. No 47-203-09-75, 76 and 77, and provided to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, as Mr. Yordanov said, two MPs are about to take their oath as such. By decision No 1196-NS, Sofia, 26 July 2022 of the CEC on the announcement of Zeko Georgiev Dandarinov as MP from the Twenty-First Election Region of Slivenski, in the 47th National Assembly: By letter I went in. No NS-02-9 of 20.07.2022 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 20.07.2022, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Georgi Yordanov Gozdeykov as MP from the twenty-first election district of Slivenski, erected from the list of coalitions We continue the Change in the 47th National Assembly. By Decision No 1193-NS of 26.07.2022 on the basis of an application received, the Central Election Commission has decided not to announce Hristo Yuriev Yankov as No 3 in the list of Coalition.. We continue the Change................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By Decision No 1194-NS of 26.07.2022 on the basis of an application received, the Central Election Commission has decided not to announce Petar Georgiev Bournev as No 4 in the list of Coalition.. We continue the Change................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By Decision No 1195-NS of 26.07.2022 on the basis of an application received, the Central Election Commission has decided not to announce Daniel Condev as No 5 in the list of Coalition.. We continue the Change..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code The Central Election Commission has decided: Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly from the twenty-first election district of Slivenski, Zheko Georgiev Dandarinov, EGN..., from the list of the KP One more decision, fellow Members: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1190-NS of 19 July 2022 on the announcement of Anita Petrova Kocelova as the MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad With a letter in my letter. Decision of the National Assembly of 13 July 2022 was received by the CEC on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Viktoria Dimitrova Vasileva as a MP from the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, erected from the list of political party. There is such a people in the 47th National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly of the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, Anita Petrova Kocelova, EGN..., from the list of political party Please invite the two elected by CEC decisions to take an oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Dear Mr. Dandarinoff, dear Mrs. Kocelova, please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u66	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u67	Colleagues, we are continuing with item one of the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE ASSISTANCES TO SPEND THE NATURAL GAS FROM ООО He was accepted at a Commission meeting on 26 July 2022. Before we proceed to the presentation of the Report, there is a request for a declaration from the Parliamentary Group of ARGUING. Mrs. Mihailova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The days of this Parliament are numbered, and we recall that the main reason for his short life is very simple: the full dependence of the government on various foreign factors, which have long passed their own plans and strategies through the so-called Bulgarian political elite. There are countries where there is political will to defend national interest as a priority over any community commitments, and this should be the main objective of any government. Unfortunately, our homeland is not among these countries. The conflict in Ukraine formed a slender and consistent Euro-Atlantic majority, and in recent months in the National Assembly several symbolic votes have passed, which made clear the difference between aging and all other parliamentary parties. When the line between the ruling quadruple coalition, on the one hand, and GERB and DPS, on the other, had absolutely no difference, this was quite indicative, and on the other hand we were. Only ARRANGEMENT was against the hasty sanctions against the Russian Federation, which obviously did not achieve any significant results and even negatively affect the countries of the European Union. Only a revival raised the issue of foreign military bases on our territory, which, in the context of a conflict, which is essentially between NATO and Russia, with good reason, are disturbing an increasing part of the Bulgarians. Only rebirth was against providing military assistance to one of the warring countries in the conflict. We called for reason, refusing to take sides in a clash between two of our brothers' people. We have implemented large-scale humanitarian support to help our compatriots in Ukraine. We have stated a strong stance against the expulsion of 70 Russian diplomats and officials. The way this unprecedented decision was taken is a vivid illustration of management improvisation called a quadruple coalition. We have repeatedly warned about the severe consequences of stopping gas supplies, but the government has done everything possible to make that happen. Today it is a fact that Europe is quite officially starting to impose itself restrictions on gas consumption, and that, unfortunately, is only the beginning. Once again, we stress that we do not have any, even close in financial terms, alternatives to Russian oil, which represents 70% of the fuel raw material processed in Bulgaria. In fact, energy connectivity with Russia is the result of the decisions of generations of Bulgarian politicians from the entire ideological spectrum throughout the so-called transition. To claim that Bulgaria is prepared for such shock changes in the energy sphere is nothing more than a criminal suggestion. The economy is not interested in mantras, and the approved pat on the shoulder of the Western partners will not solve any problem of the Bulgarian families or the Bulgarian business. Dear compatriots, the time has come when the clichés of Euro-Atlantic values are no longer working. Winter is getting closer and the Atlantic coast is thousands of miles away. History does not know eternal alliances, and the sooner we start to conform to these simple realities, the sooner we will bring back to people the feeling that we really have a responsible political elite. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Colleagues, we're going to point one of the weekly program. Mr. Mitov, are you going to introduce us to the Report? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members who are in this Chamber, prepare for a long reading! ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Temporary Committee for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of the natural gas from the OOO (Gazprom Export) and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz (EAD) The interim committee for verification of the circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO (Gazprom Export) and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz (EAD) was established by decision of the National Assembly on 11 May 2022 with a period of validity of one month. On 8 June 2022, the National Assembly, by its decision, extended the provisional committee for another month. The creation of the Commission was with a view to clarifying all the circumstances citing the communication between the "Gazprom Export" and the "Bulgargaz" EAD, as well as whether all the financial and property interests of the Bulgarian company are protected, and whether the security of supply to the Republic of Bulgaria is guaranteed under the best price conditions for natural gas users in the country. The provisional committee was extended in view of the need for additional time to get acquainted with the large volume of information and its study, as well as the urgent hearing of representatives of institutions and competent authorities. For the period from its establishment until now, the Commission held two meetings, which were heard by representatives of the "Bulgargaz" Plc, "Bulgartransgaz" Plc, the State Agency "National Security" and the State Agency "Research". All available data were submitted at the meetings and additional information and opinions were requested from the competent public authorities and persons directly involved in the subject of the Commission's work. I. In fact, In order to clarify the circumstances which led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO, Gazprom Export and the subsequent procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz "EAD," the Temporary Commission prepared and sent letters to the following persons and institutions: Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Council of Ministers was asked to provide copies of correspondence with the European Commission, as well as minutes of talks with the Commission and adopted decisions of the Council of Ministers, as well as reports and analyses to them regarding the new payment scheme with the OOO "Gazprom Export" after 1 April 2022. A second letter also requested information from the operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2022, including the decisions, transcripts or minutes adopted at the meeting, as well as the roll-call vote on each of the items included in the agenda and the opinions expressed by the various ministers. Second, the Ministry of Energy and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The Minister of Energy and the Executive Director of BEH EAD requested a report of the working group appointed by the Minister's Order of 9 May 2022, with the findings and conclusions of the verification of the activities of Bulgargaz Third, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission requested copies of the applications of the Bulgarian Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the validation of natural gas prices from the KEWRC for February 2022, March 2022, April 2022 and May 2022. "Initial and corrective in their confidential version, with all the applications, as well as the reports of the KEWRC working groups on the applications of Bulgargaz " EAD for these months. A further letter also requested a copy of the application of the request of Bulgargaz "EAD" for validating the prices of natural gas from the KEWRC for June 2022. "Initially and correctly in its confidential version, with all the applications, as well as the reports of the KEWRC working groups on the application of Bulgargaz " EAD for this month. Fourth, the National Revenue Agency. Information was requested from the Agency concerning the due obligations of the institution represented on 31 May 2022 and the amount of the liabilities and interest on them. Fifthly, the following information was requested from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences: The requests of Bulgargaz "EAD" for validating the prices of natural gas from KEWRC for the following months: February, March, April and May 2022 The information provided was to contain the following information: - requests of clients of Bulgargaz "EAD" for delivery of natural gas for February, March, April and May 2022; - the quantities of natural gas for the extraction of PGH "Ciren" included in the pricing for March, April and May 2022, as well as information on the implementation of the quantities requested for the extraction for those months. A program of Bulgargaz "EAD" was requested for the recovery, storage and extraction of natural gas in PGH "Ciren" for 2022, approved by "Bulgartransgaz" EAD by months according to the Emergency Action Plan approved by the Minister of Energy. The request was also requested for approval by the KEWRC at the price of natural gas for April 2022, calculated with the quantities included in the mix for delivery by OOO "Gazprom Export" entered into the KEWRC on 8 April 2022. To be provided all supply contracts by alternative suppliers entered into by Bulgargaz "EAD" in the period 27 April 2022. 30 April 2022, as well as in May 2022; information on the way in which the relevant suppliers were selected; all correspondence with requests to all licensed natural gas traders; offers received from traders; and where the contracts were concluded; presentation of the decisions of the relevant Board of Directors of Bulgargaz An analysis and justification of the decision taken by the Bulgarian energy company Bulgargaz ЕAD was also requested not to pay for the delivery of the proposed mechanism by the Russian supplier and to provide an analysis for all risks and consequences for the Bulgarian energy company Bulgargaz and its clients and for the Bulgarian economy in relation to the decision for non-payment. Also requested was an analysis of the risks and consequences for the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the State regarding the possible default of the contract with OO.Bulgargaz............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A list of quantities purchased under the 2022 Natural Gas Release Programme was also requested by months, including all contracts concluded under this programme. Information was requested on all reserved and paid by the EADs for access and transport from 1 April 2022 to 31 December 2022 by months, including the reserved capacities of liquefied natural gas terminals in Greece and Turkey. Information was requested on the transfer of access and transmission capacities by other traders of Bulgargaz "EAD" for the period 1 April 2022. On 31 December 2022, by month and all contracts concluded between the Bulgargas and other suppliers for the supply of natural gas from 1 April 2022. 31 December 2022 by month. The financial statements of Bulgargaz "EAD" were requested on 31 January 2022, 28 February 2022, 31 March 2022 and 30 April 2022. The long-term contracts concluded between Bulgargaz "EAD" with OOO "Gazprom Export" and with SOCAR as well as the annexes to them were requested. The same were not provided and were requested by a subsequent letter. Information on the publication of the electronic edition of the newspaper "Trud" of 3 June 2022 was also requested by Bulgargaz. Information on the decision to stop natural gas supplies from OOO Gazprom Export to the Republic of Bulgaria was provided by the Bulgarian authorities. The letter requested copies of the letters and reports cited in the publication. By another letter from the company were also requested copies of contracts concluded between "Bulgargaz" and "Botash" S. A. Turkey, or any other intermediary for agreed or transferred natural gas with an entry point from the Republic of Turkey for the months of April (August 2022), as well as information on agreed or transferred natural gas at entry point Strandja 1 for the months of May (August 2022) and contracts for the same quantities. Sixth, the following information was requested from the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance: the approved plan for heating, storage and extraction in PGH Chiren and users for 2022. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). On 31 March 2023, by month. Information was requested for all other users of PGH "Ciren" and for the quantities requested by them for the period 1 January 2022 for the period 1 January 2022. 31 March 2023 by month, information on the physical and commercial flows at the entrance and exit of the Bulgarian network at the exit point of the Tower of Sidyrocastro by day for the period 27 April 2022. "May 18, 2022" Sedmo, the State Agency for Intelligence and the State Agency for National Security was requested information on the following issues: - information on the country of origin of natural gas consumed in the Republic of Bulgaria; - information on ownership, managers and authorised representatives of the companies from which Bulgargaz - information on whether the agencies have data and analysis on the level of corruption risk, as well as on corruption pressure in the selection of alternative natural gas suppliers, following the suspension of supplies by the OOO "Gazprom Export." II. Findings on the information provided by the Temporary Commission. Information provided on applications for price validation of natural gas. It is apparent from the data provided from the price applications of "Bulgargaz" EAD that for the months of April and May the company obtained from the gas storage facility in Chiren approximately 120 million. Cube. m, or a little over 50% of the quota of Bulgargaz. It appears from the application submitted to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 8 March 2022 for the approval of a price for April that it will obtain from Chiren quantities of 717 400 megawatt hours. It is not argued for what reason a quantity of Chiren was obtained, taking into account the emergency situation and the potential risk of stopping supplies from Russia as a result of the war in Ukraine. In the justification for the relevant application for price validation, an order of the Minister of Energy is referred to, according to which an order is issued to the Minister of Energy to obtain from 1 April to 30 April 2022, including quantities of up to 717 400 megawatt hours, depending on the technical capabilities of PGH and the production capacity of Bulgargas. In the initial application of the Bulgarian Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for May 8 April 2022 for a valid price, the price was calculated by deliveries from the Gazprom Export and no production was foreseen. It is clear from the information provided that the price for May, if Russian gas is bought directly from the Russian gas, would be close to BGN 25. for a megawatt hour lower than the price established by the Commission for energy and water regulation, which is formed again by Russian gas, but purchased with an overestimate by intermediaries. Expressed in percentage, the delivery price of "Bulgargaz" for May 2022 would be 15.33% lower than the proposed price in the application of "Bulgargaz" from 13 May 2022. This price is 162,17 BGN. for megawatt hours. At this price are calculated the prices of all deliveries by intermediaries over 100 euros per megawatt hour. The difference in the price of intermediaries selling Russian gas again is more than 20%. In the final statement of Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) for May is again included the yield of 546 000 megawatt hours from the gas storage facility in Chiren. At the same time, it is planned to inject amounts of natural gas in Chiren. These quantities are bought by intermediaries and cost by 15 million. EUR more expensive than if it were purchased directly by The natural gas obtained from the gas storage facility in Chiren is replaced by one at twice the price. During the hearing, the Executive Director of Bulgargaz As a result of these actions, winter, instead of producing cheap gas left in Chiren from 2021, will be produced twice as expensive, which will affect the heating companies and economic operators requesting natural gas. With the above-mentioned approach, the management of Bulgargaz "EAD has placed a price risk for the upcoming winter. With regard to information provided on supply contracts by alternative suppliers. "Bulgargas" has had the time needed to organise and conduct transparent procedures for purchasing the necessary gas for the last days of April, May and the following months this year, including using the anonymous segment of gas exchanges in the country. "Bulgargaz" has a natural gas trade licence and is a user of the network of the Greek operator DESFA, which enables it to independently negotiate supply of LNG directly with producers from the USA, Algeria, Qatar and others without the participation of intermediaries, and to book the slots for landing and regasification of the terminals for liquefied natural gas Revitus in Greece. Instead, the Bulgargaz is moving towards the choice of selected traders, in an opaque way, under vague rules and criteria, and only to a limited range of natural gas traders are sent the invitations. There is a significant increase in gas prices, which significantly increases the burden of natural gas prices for final customers in the period after the suspension of supplies by There are over 40 licensed traders on the Bulgarian gas market. A request for the period 27 April 2022 has been sent by Bulgargaz. 30 April 2022 only up to 10 gas traders. It is not clear how the selection of these 10 participants is made and why no inquiries have been sent to all licensed traders. For the period 1 May 2022 On 31 May 2022 only 12 natural gas traders were sent requests. Again, it is not clear what is the reason why requests for offers are not sent to all licensed traders and how the selection of exactly these 12 traders is made. It is clear from the information provided that there are no clear and identical delivery criteria. Even these selected traders were asked for a delivery offer for different quantities and at different entry points. On one of the commercial participants was asked a bid for delivery of gas for May at a virtual trading point in Greece for 30 000 megawatts per day and at the same time a bid for delivery of gas for May at a virtual trading point in Bulgaria for 5000 megawatts per day was requested. From the above, the facts described can make a reasonable assumption of the existence of a prior arrangement for these quantities, for the point of delivery and for the price. There have also been numerous violations in the ranking and selection of companies to sign supply contracts. Examples: The offer of DEPA for delivery in May 2022 was received after the expiry of the deadline of the gas transmission networks of Greece and Bulgaria, which includes both the interruption of the supplies from Gsulfrom to Greece and the lack of free transport capacity due to the overloading of the flow from Greece to Bulgaria, but nevertheless the offer is classified first and signed with DEPA, although the company offers a 2 euro lower price than the bid received in the third place of Mitinisson is disqualified due to the existence of a single condition for specific force majeure. It is invited to offer up to 5000 megawatts per day, but a contract of 30 000 megawatts per delivery day in May 2022 is signed. And MET's offer for 30 000 megawatts per day was received according to the emails provided by "Bulgargaz" on 27 April 2022 at 11:57, which not only arouses confusion, but at least means that without being invited, they had at the same time information about the specific needs of "Bulgargaz" and there was probably an agreement for the delivery of the largest amount of natural gas provided by an intermediary in the so-called selection procedures. A contract was signed with the company "Axpo" at a price of 109 euros per megawatt hour, at an unclassed bid by the company "Elpedison" "101,"69 euros per megawatt hour," and also by the company "Energy" Ltd, offering a larger amount and a lower price of " 104,44 euros per megawatt hour," and with an unclassed offer by the company "Motor Oil" at a price of 106,185 euros per megawatt hour. DXT is disqualified even though it has submitted a binding offer due to the existence of a force majeure condition in the offer, while DEPA is ranked first, despite the existence of a much larger delivery condition including that of DXT. A contract was signed with the company "Axpo" at a price of 109 euros per megawatt hour, at an unclassed bid of "Elpedisson" 101,69 euros per megawatt hour, also by the company "Energy" Ltd, offering a larger amount and a lower price of " 104,44 euros per megawatt hour," and with an unclassed offer by the company "Motor Oil" at a price of 106,185 euros per megawatt hour. DXT is disqualified even though it has submitted a binding offer due to the existence of a force majeure condition in the offer, while DEPA is ranked first, despite the existence of a much larger delivery condition including that of DXT. A contract is also signed with the company "Supreme Petrom" also at a higher price "Supreme 105,69 euros per megawatt hour," from the prices offered by "Elpedisson" and "Energico" Ltd.. The price of OMV Petrom is higher than the one proposed by DXT for the same period. It should be noted that the offers of some traders include a condition for the interruption of delivery for technical reasons of DESFA. It is evident that natural gas traders have reported a risk of disruption of the gas flow from Greece to Bulgaria. However, Bulgargaz is insisting that the gas be delivered to Greece without taking into account these risks and the consequences of the potential failure of the gas flow to Bulgaria. The price comparison of the Bulgargaz. The price of the Treaty by Gazprom Export and the AGSC Treaty provide price data from 1 January 2021 to 30 May 2022. It is not clear why the Bulgargaz is not providing information for 2019 and 2020 as well as for the months of June and July 2022 in order to form an objective assessment of the natural gas market, as well as the alternative supply made by Bulgargaz after May 2022. "Bulgargaz" did not provide all requested contracts concluded between the company and other suppliers for the supply of natural gas from 1 April 2022 to 31 December 2022 by month. "Bulgargaz" states that it did not provide the Contract concluded in May 2022 with a liquefied natural gas supplier, for reasons of confidentiality clause included in the Treaty. The quoted clause does not give rise to the refusal of the Bulgargaz. Even in the presence of a non-binding contractual clause, on the basis of art. 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "Bulgargaz" is obliged to grant the Treaty to the Commission, as the company has done with other contracts provided to the Commission by accompanying letters. Regarding the information provided on the justification of the decision taken by the Russian supplier from Bulgargaz ЕAD not to pay for the delivery of the proposed mechanism by the Russian supplier. According to the information received by the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision of an operational meeting on 13 April 2022 requiring that According to information from the Council of Ministers from the operational meeting held, there is no shorthand or protocol, as there is no regulatory requirement for this. In response to the Temporary Commission, the prime minister in resignation Mr. Kiril Petkov says that on the grounds of art. 21, al. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration the operational work of the Council of Ministers is carried out through operational meetings on current issues of the government's activities. It is not clear which members of the Council of Ministers attended this operational meeting, what opinion they have expressed, whether they have expressed an opinion at all and how they voted on the proposed decision and whether there was a vote. The Minister of Energy has entered the Council of Ministers at the same operational meeting Report containing the following five points: 1. "Bulgargaz" EAD should not take action to implement the proposal of OOO "Gazprom Export" for a unilateral modification of the conditions for payment of natural gas supply under Treaty No 02-12-13 of 15 November 2012 concluded between "Bulgargaz" EAD and "OOO "Gazprom Export"; 2. In order to avoid potential risks related to the security and continuity of natural gas supplies to the country, 3. Instructs the Minister of Energy to inform the Council of Ministers upon further clarification under this point. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. To continue to make payments for the natural gas supplied under the agreed conditions; 5. Control of the implementation of this Decision is carried out by the Minister of Energy and by the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Then by letter of his own, I'm out. No E-91-0017 of 15 April 2022, the Deputy Minister of Energy motivated by an approved decision from the same operational meeting of the Council of Ministers of 13 April 2022, its instructions to the Executive Director of From the information provided by the President of the Russian Federation on the decision not to pay for the supplies offered by the OOO, it is clear from the information provided by the Bulgarian authorities that: - "Bulgargaz" refers only to 3 of the letters of OOO "Gazprom Export"; - The remaining correspondence is not dealt with in the reply of Bulgargaz. There is no indication that this information is provided to the attention of BEH, the Ministry of Energy, the Council of Ministers and the other responsible institutions involved in giving approval or decision; - "Bulgargaz" describes the alleged risks of costing and interruption of supply in payment under the new mechanism. It is also argued that there will be possible negative consequences of violations of the European Commission's sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation. However, there is no information on the ongoing communication with the European Commission on this subject, namely whether it represents the payment of the new mechanism in rubles of the natural gas in violation of sanctions provided; - There is no analysis of the risks and consequences of the suspension of supplies for Bulgargaz and BEH as a result of the refusal to pay under the new mechanism. There is also a lack of assessment of the likely outcome of the dispute with the Russian party for arbitration resolution; - There is no strategy for conducting the talks with OOO "Gazprom Export" in the event of rejection and in the event of adoption of the new payment mechanism. This requires taking into account the main arguments and statements of both parties in the chronology of exchanged correspondence: - With the letter of 1 April 2022 ООО "Гспорм Изпът".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The letter was accompanied by an instruction of the Gazprombank to open and operate the special accounts in dollars and rubles. From item II of the Instruction, it becomes clear that the term in which the bank is to convert, i.e. to sell the foreign currency and to purchase rubles and to secure the account of OOO "Gazprom Export" in rubles, is two working days from the day following the day of the entry of the funds into the buyer's currency account. According to item III of the Instructions for opening and servicing special accounts and for the sale of currency by the bank, the buyer does not owe and does not pay commission remuneration. On 28 March 2022, Bulgargaz "EAD" made a payment in dollars, with a value of 29 March 2022, and this payment was not accepted by "Gazprom Export" and was returned on 8 April 2022. - By letter of 8 April 2022, the OOO "Gazprom Export" reminded the "Bulgargaz" that the payment of the supplies as of 1 April 2022 is carried out only in rubles according to the procedure described in the letter of 1 April 2022. Payment of the old bank accounts of OO "Gazprom Export" is a violation of the Ukhaza and is considered to be a breach of the obligation of the Bulgargaz "for payment under the Treaty." The settlement period by the bank shall be two working days, without counting the day of the entry of the funds into the buyer's currency account, and that the opening of the special accounts takes two days, which the Bulgargaz is to take into account in order to comply with the deadline for reply to whether it adopts the new mechanism, namely 18 April 2022. - Only on 15 April 2022, Friday, only one working day before the expiry of the deadline for response, the Russian side informed in writing that key aspects of the new mechanism have not been taken into account and are not applicable. "Bulgargaz" will be in default or delay to OOO "Gazprom Export" in the event of default or delay by the Russian tax services in the event of re-valuation and validation of the ruble accounts; there is a risk of limiting the availability of rubles to trade on the Moscow Exchange; there is a risk of stopping the supplies to Bulgaria by the Russian tax offices in the event of default or default in the course of re-valuation and validation of the ruble accounts by the bank; "Bulgargaz" will have to pay the natural gas supplies before the date specified in the invoices to comply with the deadline. "Bulgargaz" also raises questions for further discussion, including to be released from responsibility and not to owe compensation to OOO "Gazprom Export" for damages and in the event of delays as a result of the overvalutation; - By letter dated 22 April 2022, OOO "Gazprom Export" informed the President of the Russian Federation that the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation is binding on the Russian supplier and the supply of Russian gas is suspended if no payment has been made within the payment period under the new mechanism. Gazprom Export is not accepting the argument of the Bulgarian side that the mechanism was not worked out and its use would be premature, as other counterparties of OOO "Gazprom Export" from different European countries apply it seamlessly and without delays. Gazprom Export is explicitly stressing that in the event of strict compliance with the payment mechanism, Bulgargas will not be liable and will suffer sanctions and damage. In the event of default or delay by the bank, Bulgargaz is to claim its rights under the contract concluded with Gazprombank. - By letter of 26 April 2022, the OOO "Gazprom Export" informed that on 26 April 2022 "Bulgargas" did not pay according to the order of the Decree the last 20% of the proform invoice for the supplies for April 2022, as well as the price of the actual supplies for April 2022. In view of the failure of the contractual obligation and in accordance with the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation, with effect from 7.00 hours of Eastern European Time OOO OO "Gsprom Export" claimed the supply for "Bulgargas" until full fulfilment of the obligation to pay the supplies under the Treaty according to the order set by the Ukhaza. - By letter of 27 April 2022, after the supply of Russian gas has already ceased, Bulgargaz is not obliged to pay in rubles on an account other than that referred to in the Treaty and is entitled to pay in dollars as before. "Bulgargaz" EAD believes that the suspension of natural gas supplies in view of the payment made on 26 April 2022 by Bulgargaz is placing the OOO "Gazprom Export" in default of the Delivery Contract. "Bulgargaz" (Bulgargaz) requires the OOO "Gazprom Export" to offer compensation to the Bulgarian country in the event of additional costs, direct and indirect, as a result of the implementation of the new payment mechanism and to be exempted from liability for non-payment in rubles within the specified period as a result of default by the bank of its obligations. The European Commission has imposed sanctions on Bulgargas for payment made under the new mechanism. - By letter dated 29 April 2022, OOO "Gazprom Export" informed "Bulgargaz" that the payment of 26 April 2022 was made in the old accounts of the Russian supplier after 1 April 2022, i.e. in violation of the order laid down by the Decree and there was a failure to pay the supplies. In view of this, the OOO "Gazprom Export" has returned the amounts of Bulgargaz. On the grounds of t. 14.3 of the Treaty OOO "Gazprom Export" informed "Bulgargaz" EAD that it is unable to fulfil its obligation to supply under the Treaty due to the existence of force majeure circumstances. The Russian Party shall provide a Force Major Certificate issued by the Industrial Chamber of Commerce of the Russian Federation confirming the existence and duration of force majeure under the Treaty. The Gazprom Export has confirmed its readiness to complete its delivery obligations in full if it receives a payment from the Bulgargas under the new mechanism. The decree is binding for implementation by the OOO "Gazprom Export" as it is part of the domestic legislation of the Russian Federation and is applicable to the parties to the Treaty. Gazprom Export is of the opinion that the new payment scheme does not violate the measures imposed by the European Commission, pointing out an explanation to the European Commission of 21 April 2022. The proposed payment scheme does not pose any risks and would not lead to the responsibility of Bulgargaz. The Bank shall not deduct any fees and commissions for the opening and servicing of the special accounts and for the conversion. The opinion of OOO "Gazprom Export" is that the amendments to the Treaty's application as a result of the Decree are non-essential and do not distort the trade balance of the interests of the parties. - By three letters of 5 May 2022 OO "Gazprom Export" again gives explanations to the proposed payment mechanism. The Russian party confirms that, in the event of a fair performance of the buyer's payment obligations, in the event that the bank fails to comply strictly with its obligations to sell currency and to validate the special accounts of the parties to the Treaty, the effects of suspension of supplies do not occur, including this does not result in a decision being taken by the tax authorities of the Russian Federation to suspend them. We move on to the opinion of the legal consultants of BEH EAD. On 8 April 2022, BEH requested by 12 April 2022. White and Case LLP to give an opinion by considering the options for the new payment mechanism to be accepted or rejected, as well as the possibility for the "Bulgargaz" to propose an amendment to the export sent by Gazprom on 1 April 2022. It is not clear why the legal opinion was requested only on 8 April and not immediately after a letter from "Gazprom Export" received on 1 April 2022. The consultants shall provide their initial comments as follows: - "Bulgargaz" should request additional information from the "Gazprom Export" in order to understand and assess the proposed new payment mechanism and the risks of its implementation. - The decree of the President of the Russian Federation is part of the domestic legislation of Russia and is binding for "Gazprom Export." In the event of non-compliance with the new payment conditions, the Decree provides for a ban on subsequent deliveries. - By letter of 1 April 2022. "Gazprom Export" makes a proposal to change the contractual terms and conditions, with Bulgargaz having a contractual right to accept or refuse the proposed change. - In case the proposal of Gazprom Exports does not result in additional costs and risks for Bulgargaz, the refusal would have placed Bulgargaz in default of his contractual obligations. In this case, the UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods may be invoked by Gazprom Export. Article 54 of the Convention lays down an obligation on the buyer to pay the price, which includes taking such measures and complying with such formalities necessary under the Treaty or the laws and regulations in order to enable payment to be made. Article 1 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, (a) if the buyer's failure to fulfil any of its obligations under the Treaty or under the Convention constitutes a material breach of the contract; or (b) if the buyer fails to fulfil its obligation to pay the price or accept the delivery of the goods within the additional time limit set by the seller or states that he will not do so within the prescribed period. On the other hand, according to § 15 of the legal analysis, the proposal of the "Gazprom Export" does not constitute a risk-free mechanism and is therefore unlikely art. 54 of the Convention to be applied, i.e. the probability of believing that the "Bulgargaz" is in default of the Treaty is also low. Article 1 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 64 of the Convention gives the seller the right to break the contract and not to suspend the supply of natural gas unilaterally. For this reason, § 17 of the legal analysis states that the possibilities for success of such hypotheses (under art. 54 and 64 of the Convention) as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods states that the seller is not entitled to require payment in the currency applicable to the place of payment, i.e. in the present case. - The risk of interruption of supply in case of a force majeure in Gazprom Export. In refusing to pay under the new mechanism, there would be good arguments that the Decree is a force majeure within the meaning of the Delivery Treaty. The Russian side would strengthen its position by providing a force majeure certificate issued under the Treaty provisions. The supply contract obliges the parties, in the event of a force majeure, to negotiate and to make every effort to reach a mutually acceptable solution. "Bulgargaz" must participate in this process in good faith and active in order not to fall into default, with the resulting negative consequences. According to § 23 of the legal analysis, there would be an opportunity to challenge the applicability of the clause on the "Fors Major' in the present case, since the decree of the President of the Russian Federation does not apply to the implementation of the Treaty. - Risk of OOO "Gazprom Export" exercising its right to amend or terminate the Justice Delivery Treaty. Although there is no clause in the Delivery Treaty to refer to the competent court for such a change/disruption, Swiss law gives this option to the party concerned. However, § 34 of the legal analysis states that, in order to arrive at such a negative hypothesis, under the Swiss law of the parties, the contract must first be ordered by a judge to enter into binding negotiations to achieve winter terms and only thereafter to be terminated or amended in judicial order. It is also stated in Paragraph 35 of the legal analysis that, in such a case, there would be good arguments that the Decree does not significantly alter the equality of the parties to the Treaty and does not introduce extraordinary obligations for "Gazprom Export', respectively a potential claim of the Russian company could be rejected. - The risk that Gazprom Export will be exempted from its contractual obligation to supply natural gas on grounds of objective inability to implement. This right is governed by the Swiss Code of Obligations. The President of the Russian Federation has good arguments in this sense and it is possible for the court to accept that the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation covers the hypothesis of the objective inability to implement the Treaty by Gazprom Export. In this case, the "Gazprom Export" will be exempted from the obligation to supply natural gas and the "Bulgargaz" will not have the right to claim damages from the failure. - Potential risk of sanctions being imposed by the European Commission. The consultants note that they are not aware of the imposition of sanctions on payments in rubles and that a clear vote by 27 member states is needed to impose them. The theme needs further research. said at that time the consultants. - The consultants propose further clarification of the proposed payment mechanism by demonstrating that it is dealing effectively with the proposal to minimize the possible risks of breach of its obligation to exercise its rights and obligations under the Treaty in good faith. - In case the proposal of Gazprom Export is related to risks and additional costs, there would be reasonable commercial arguments to reject it. However, it is necessary to assess the risk that Gazprom Exports will stop supply by referring to a force majeure or to an objective impossibility to implement the Treaty. - In case the proposal by Gazprom Exports does not bring risks and additional costs, the refusal of Bulgargaz is to pay under the new mechanism will add new risks to the buyer in a dispute between the parties. In this situation, too, there is a risk that Gazprom Export will stop supply by referring to a force majeure or to an objective impossibility to implement the Treaty. - The consultants also point out the risks to Bulgargaz, when accepting the proposal of "Gazprom Export" related to the late or even non-payment of the sums due in rubles, because the conversion of dollars into rubles and the payment of the amount due to the "Gazprom Export" from the buyer's ruble account is carried out entirely under the control of "Gazprombank," which is a third party to the Treaty, and "Bulgargaz" would not have a mechanism for any protection if he agreed to the proposal. - The consultants point out that the proposed mechanism simply implies that there will be enough rubles to buy on the Moscow Stock Exchange, and this circumstance is not certain and again stands outside the control of the Bulgarian company, which can lead to the delay of the Bulgarian company and responsibility for failure to fulfil obligations, as well as the possibility of stopping natural gas supplies by Gazprom Export. The consultants were not aware of the subsequent correspondence between the parties and they did not require an updated opinion, which, taking into account the applicable foreign material law under the Treaty, puts the interests of the Bulgarian country at serious risk. The comments, the main conclusions and the risks outlined in the opinion of legal consultants, White and Case LLP, regarding the options for accepting or rejecting the proposed new payment mechanism are not commented on. "Bulgargaz" did not comment on the consequences of the export granted by Gazprom (in a letter dated 29 April 2022) a force majeure certificate issued by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation certifying the inability to supply under the Treaty. - About asking for possible risks and consequences of penalties and the take or pay clause. The requested analysis of the risks and consequences for the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the State regarding the possible default of the "Bulgargaz" Treaty was not provided by the requested analysis of the risks and consequences for the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the State on the possible default of the "Bulgargaz" Treaty with the "Gazprom Export" "take or pay" and other penalties, as well as the risks and consequences, such a possible failure will have an impact on the performance of the contracts with the other suppliers, including the long-term contract with the Azerbaijani company and the exercise of public supply and natural gas licenses. The risk of referring the dispute between the parties to an Arbitration Court in Paris has not been investigated under the applicable foreign substantive law to the Treaty, namely the Swiss law. The referral of the dispute (with regard to penalties, liability under the take or pay clause and others) to be resolved by the Arbitration Court is undesirable in view of the huge arbitration fees and legal fees to be paid in advance, the duration of the arbitration dispute and the risks of the outcome of the arbitration procedure. - About the quantities of natural gas purchased under the Natural Gas Release Program. From the information provided on the quantities purchased at the Gas Hub auctions, the following is clear from the information provided under the exemption programme: - A particular company, which is intensively present on the gas market in the last calendar year, has purchased natural gas for 2022 of 2 219 700 megawatt hours. For May 2022, the same company purchased a certain amount of natural gas at the price of Bulgargas at BGN 161,98. for megawatthaz (the price is published on the website of Bulgargaz "EAD". At the same time, the company purchased a significant amount of natural gas from this company for 31 days a month at a significantly higher price. It is clear from the above facts that the company sells to this particular company cheap natural gas and then buys that same natural gas from that same company at a higher price as an alternative supplier. The price difference remains in the trading company and it forms a profit of 6 922 208 BGN. only from the quantities bought and resold to "Bulgargaz" EAD. For its part, the request for the purchase of the quantity at a higher price is included in the request. The KEWRC confirms the price, with the same price entering as a price-forming element of the price regulated by the KEWRC for domestic customers and affecting the price for operators buying from the free market. At a closed meeting, representatives of the national security services confirmed that they received a signal from MPs about the above-mentioned case, carried out an alert check and the result was sent to the competent authorities. - Information provided on reserved and transferred by Bulgargaz. It is clear from the information provided that the "Bulgargas" does not have any reserved capacities of the liquefied natural gas terminals either in Greece or in Turkey, which was claimed by government representatives. "Bulgargaz" EAD claims that it is not a licensed user of the Turkish transmission network and cannot reserve the capacity of a liquefied gas terminal in the Republic of Turkey. It is clear, however, that there is a reserved entry point capacity in Nea Mesemvria of 28 670 675 megawatts per day. It is not clear what purpose this capacity is reserved for, if there is a contract for delivery of this point and with whom it has entered into a contract. The price of delivery under this contract is also unclear. It is apparent from the information provided that the same company mentioned above in the Report transferred monthly capacity to the Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) for May 2022 amounting to 20 000 megawatts per day. It is not clear why, since this company had the capacity to import the Tower of Sidyrokastro, the Bulgargaz has purchased the gas in Greece and requested a transfer of this capacity. This means that the delivery was not secure and that Bulgargaz is taking an unjustified financial risk for this supply. The same company, although it had capacity to import into Bulgaria, sold the gas to "Bulgargaz" in Greece. - About the information provided on the financial statements of Bulgargaz. As from the date of entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). "Bulgargaz" is beginning to rapidly deteriorate its financial situation both as a financial result and as balance sheet indicators. The profit accumulated on 31 January 2022 is very rapidly melting, debt is piling up to banks and BEH, up to 300 million. lv. Seen from the accounts, only a year earlier there was in accounts 246 million. BGN, but now these accounts are empty. This threatens the implementation of the Treaty with gas suppliers, including the Azeri supplier, and it is publicly known that a bank guarantee is issued in several months which guarantees the Treaty with the Azeri party. On 3 June 2022, a request was sent to the NRA whether Bulgargaz To date, there is still no response from the executive director of the NRA. - About supplies of natural gas under the Treaty with the Azerbaijani company. From the information received in the Temporary Commission it is clear that the reserve capacity of Nea Mesemvria is 28 670 675 megawatts per day. Probably this capacity is reserved to provide supplies of Azeri gas on an alternative route as of 1 July 2022, as the contractual route (Bulgarian-Greek gas connection (IGB) was not built and put into commercial operation at that date. The Additional Agreement to the Delivery Treaty is signed under which, as from 1 July 2022, the delivery is made in full volume at a temporary point of delivery in Nea Messemvria until the entry into commercial operation of the interconnector Greece. "Bulgargaz" did not grant the contract with AGSC and its annexes by referring to a confidentiality clause of the Treaty. The clause quoted in the reply of Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) does not prohibit the provision of the Treaty, but only requires that Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) inform the Azeri party of the granting. Hearings carried out: It became clear from the hearing held with the Executive Director of Bulgargaz-EAD that certain quantities of natural gas are provided in August, but not in full to satisfy the needs of their customers, and the following months there is no clear clarity as to whether the necessary quantities will be provided. The representatives of the SANS and SAP services presented at a closed session information on the origin of natural gas, which is consumed in the Republic of Bulgaria, ownership and connectivity with other countries of alternative natural gas suppliers. The information provided is suspected to have committed an infringement under Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (OB, L 326/1 of 8 December 2011). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011', namely insider trading. Without excluding the possibility of an infringement, the persons heard did not provide any concrete evidence. III. Conclusions. 1. The information provided contains data that the Russian supplier's request for a new payment mechanism has presented to the public selective, incomplete and manipulative information on correspondence with the Russian supplier. The supplier has clearly responded to concerns about potential risks. The documents provided reinforce the doubts that the Russian party was seeking a reason to refuse Russian gas and the Russian party's request was used in this way. 2. Alternative supplies provided by intermediaries are at significantly higher prices than Russian gas. It should be noted that the way traders are selected is opaque, with vague rules and criteria, with only a limited range of natural gas traders receiving an invitation to tender. There is a significant increase in gas prices, which significantly increases the burden of natural gas prices for final customers in the period after the stop of supply by the 3. We consider that the continuing production of cheaper gas from PGH after the end of the extraction season is taking account of the continuing production of cheaper gas from PGHC. In essence, there is a substitution of cheap gas in the warehouse with double the cost, which is placing a price risk on the Bulgarian gas market and especially for the heating companies for the upcoming heating season 2022. 4. The Temporary Commission has received evidence of a sharp deterioration in the financial situation of the public provider. Bulgargaz. As of February 2022. Bulgargaz's deteriorated financial situation poses a real risk: 4.1. the ability of the company to pay supplies of Azeri gas and to provide the required bank guarantee of a large amount which threatens the performance and existence of the contract; 4.2. the execution of supply contracts with Bulgargas clients; 4.3. the successful implementation of the negotiations with natural gas suppliers (NG) for delivery in order to use the pre-arranged capacity of the terminal near Alexandroupolis in implementation of Decision No 6 of 8 January 2020 and Decision No 166 of 10 March 2020 of the Council of Ministers; 4.4. Bulgargaz licenses for natural gas trade in Bulgaria and Greece, which require maintaining positive financial results and stability. The deteriorating financial situation and the huge debt of Bulgargaz-Should be carefully analyzed in view of Bulgaria's energy security. 5. In view of the doubts expressed by the SANS and the SAR concerning infringements of Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011, the information collected should be submitted to the SEWRC in the light of the Commission's competence under Chapter. 6. The decision to fail to serve the Treaty with Gazprom Export is not taken after careful discussion and sufficient public consensus and support in view of the importance of the issue of energy security in the country and ensuring quality and secure satisfaction of the needs of the society for electricity and heat and natural gas. The Commission, on the basis of the documents received and analysed, finds that the report should be sent to the attention of the relevant authorities to familiariseise and act within their competence. IV. Applications. 1. A list of letters sent to request information on the needs of the work of the Temporary Commission; 2. List of documents received by the Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the tasks assigned. All MPs signed with a special opinion. Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u71	Read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u72	Ah, the draft decision, of course. Project! DECISION on the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the verification of the circumstances leading to the suspension of natural gas from "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers by "Bulgargaz" EAD The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from the "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from the "Bulgargaz" EAD.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u73	And thank you, Mr. Mitov. We are moving on to a discussion on the Commission report. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Dimitrov, come in. Colleagues, be active, because we will close the discussion if there are no willing ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Whatever violations this committee has found to give them, of course, to the competent authorities, so it is also useful to make such committees. However, there is now a very important issue, which is above the other issues, point 6 of the Commission's opinion says so: The decision on the non-service of the contract with Gazprom Export is not taken after careful discussion and sufficient public consensus and support in view of the importance of the country's energy security issue and ensuring quality and securely satisfying the needs of the society of electricity and heat and natural gas. Or, in other words, directly, colleagues, you say these people who have been to the Commission and have not signed with a particular view that if it were up to you, you would continue this contract and pay in rubles, that is, this opinion from GERB appeared from time to time, but now you have written it as a specific point. I mean, if it were you, if it were up to you, you'd be paying for your gas in rubles. Another question is what would have followed from whether there would have been gas is too naive. And I ask you right now, tell me another country, a country, not a private company that pays for the gas in rubles? Give an example, because that's what you wrote in the report. I regret that my colleague Danny Mitov came out after reading the report so long, but finally after so much walking around the topic you finally said. I mean, it has to be clear who has what positions from now on goes to elections. GERB goes to elections with the following position that if it were up to you, you would pay for your gas in rubles. You wrote that as point 6 and that's how you voted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u75	I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u76	Yes, it is, I've just read, Mr. Mitov, about society. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u77	Not from a place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u78	I read it just in case. Give me a line and say you don't agree. Because, fellow Members, the problem is this: I want to explain to you that this is actually a very big trap. See what happens to Nord Stream 1. See the limitation of supplies from Moscow to the whole of the European Union. The biggest trap is to think, and probably the service cabinet like GERB has, the possible office will have similar reasoning that the payment of gas in rubles solves the problem. It doesn't solve it! In fact, it gets worse because you think you have decided something, you have done this action, you are not working on alternative suppliers and long-term contracts and this is the biggest risk that Bulgaria will lose gas. That is, this idea that you wrote in the Report as point 6 and signed below, has it with your signature, does not actually solve any important problem, but instead sends Bulgaria into a very crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u79	Thanks to the report? [[Laughter and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u80	So, ladies and gentlemen, this development will be followed. You know what's important? The important thing is that when you go to elections now, it is clear who will do what, who will do what. Here, I am telling you, we of the Democratic Bulgaria will look for alternative supplies, because nothing else is certain. Alternatives, that's what we're gonna do! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] While you, you're going to elections with the fact that you're paying for the gas in rubles. This must be known by Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u81	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Dimitrov decided to read point 6. However, I will read it to you with the meaning that we have put into it, because Mr. Dimitrov still hasn't understood anything, as usual seems to be happening lately, I don't know, or at least pretend he didn't understand. When we say that the decision not to serve the contract with the Russian party is not taken after careful discussion and sufficient public consensus and support, we say the following, Mr. Dimitrov and honourable colleagues, I think that we will all agree to this whole process, yes, I am the first person to tell you that we need to get rid of Russian gas! The first person to tell you we have to be independent of Russian gas, we've talked about this many times, so that's said. The question is, how does this work? There are some countries in the north, the Baltic states that said the following: the first thing we will do is to implement the contract with the Gazprom. On the new proposed mechanism until 31 December 2022, and then, i.e. we implement this contract, we pay the way we decide to pay, and it is not in rubles, but in dollars, the Gsprombank overturns them, then we look for a solution and alternative sources to get rid of the gas in question. I'm not saying that this is what Bulgaria should have done. I am not saying that this should have been done, listen carefully, Mr. Dimitrov, what I am saying, however, is that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy, should have come here to the National Assembly, had to make a decision of the Council of Ministers because there is none. There is no decision of the Council of Ministers to regulate what is being done. One Deputy Minister of Energy sent a letter and instructed Bulgargas to stop serving the contract, that is what they did. That's what we're saying in t. 6. The mode of action was irresponsible, the mode of action was not consistent with the importance of the situation. They should have come to parliament and told us. We had to find a common mechanism to deal with this situation by interrupting supplies, by not fulfilling payments, payment methods and the mechanism proposed by "Gszprom" we had to decide together with a national consensus as far as possible. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry I overreacted. But as far as possible, we had to find maximum consensus, because this is an important national issue and the price we all pay, as we have seen, and as we go along this line, there is also such abuse that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u83	Mr. Yordan Tsonev and then Mr. Ganev. Let's alternate groups, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, diversification for us is the right path beyond doubt. Out of doubt, we have to look for alternative supplies, and we at the DPS have said so many times. The fact that we have a common position on the topic of dependence on Russian energy supplies does not make us obliged to accept outrage, to accept to put the economy and the normal functioning of the state and of the people at risk. If we are going to make alternative deliveries of another gas, which is Russian gas again, only with intermediaries, this is not the solution, but that is what this is about. If we're going to look for alternative gas, we should also look for alternative routes that it comes on, because the air isn't yet coming, right, it's not invented, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u85	On the phone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u86	If we're going to look for liquefied gas, we have to say exactly and clearly where it arrives, how many capacities there are available there, how many we have negotiated, what date, what quantities and how they arrive here. Everything else is a lie, you know? I am aware that this cabinet went with lies.. its lie became the norm in general, but a lie on the back of the Bulgarian people, a lie on the back of the Bulgarian business. Well, we shouldn't agree on that. For example, I've been listening to the Prime Minister here consciously, and now Mr. Ganev will have a line after me, I hope he says it, but there is no currency risk, here is the nonsense that this young man is telling us. This is about a correspondent account that was in Citibank, and now it will be in Gazprombank. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Where's the currency risk? What nonsense?! Changing the payment, but it is the same payment, again in dollars, again the same price, again everything is the same. And when I say these things, why do I say them? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, thank you for understanding. I say them not because we want to be dependent on Russian gas, but because one thing when you start doing it, you have to do it the way you can, not the impossible way. And the possible way was what other countries showed. Nothing prevented us from continuing May and filling our warehouse in Chiren! At least that's what we should do and then kick the can in the popular language. So the topic is, except it smells like terrible irresponsibility, and it's corrupt. It's totally corrupt! [[Applause from the DPS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u87	Mr. Ganev, you have a third line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u88	Mr. Dimitrov, I don't know if you're thinking about it and you're aware of why your representatives in this committee, along with us, are continuing the change, together with one of the representatives of the BSP, wanted and scrutinized this report not to reach the Chamber. A few things. [[Heckling]] The right word is "drapaha," they did their best not to get here. Several legends, which you have heard at the moment, which you and your political formation are constantly explaining the payment in rubles. There's no such thing! I won't! And you're one of those who've been lying all the time over the past few months. I won't! Another thing the lawyers who have been employed by the Bulgarian state will not suffer any financial damage if they start paying in this account. Clear and precise! It is precisely because of this report and it is called "Bulgaria" can be condemned. And from this tribune it's nice to say that at the beginning of next year we can be condemned for about three billion to pay precisely for these things. With regard to the other thing you said, there were no long-term contracts, no payments, others did not pay. Excuse me, Hungary signed a new long-term supply contract a few months ago from Gazprom. Have you heard of a stop in Hungary? And if you'd heard by chance before, I think, about ten days ago, it was that Hungary asked for emergency supplies and the Russian Federation said to them: "There is no problem to deliver you emergency supplies precisely because you have a long-term contract. And from this tribune, here, the Minister of Finance repeatedly repeated that while he is a minister and while we continue the Change. Well, that's the price of having this economic crisis right now, one of the reasons is exactly that. This is exactly what this report is saying, breaking all the myths that for weeks, for months, you personally and you, including, and all the others in your parliamentary group, have been lying, constantly and only lies. This report, if you read it more carefully and run away from your political bias, you will see some very disturbing things that we will discuss in this discussion shortly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u89	Mr. Dimitrov, would you like a coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u90	My fellow Members, there is a huge benefit from this discussion. The positions have become clear. Here, I'll start with rebirth. They said that if it were up to them, and a long-term contract with GSzprom, I would. Mr. Tsonev, he's quite intelligent, he's covered in work, so that his words and taco can be interpreted, and he can't read it. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] But he's valuable, Mr. Mitov, in what you said. He said that other countries were buying gas by the end of the year from Gazprom and then something else had to be done. This is already in the transcripts, there is also point 6 in the report, i.e. GERB's position only today we were able to clarify. You say that you would pay for your gas in rubles for the rest of the year and then think about something else. That's it, that's the way it is, guys. Only I tried to explain a few things to you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-DSS.]] Take the word here, don't scream, please. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a payment in rubles, colleagues. There is no such thing that such a proposal does not exist. There is, and this is the reason why many countries have stopped their gas because they have not accepted a treaty change, colleagues. I asked you which country... a government company pays gas in rubles? [[GERB-SDS lines]] [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] So, I asked you, only not through a private company, not through a private company, a country, I mean. And the most important thing I have to say to you, fellow Members, look at how supplies are being limited to the whole of Europe. Even your thesis of GERB that you would pay in rubles, even if it happened, do you believe that there will be secure supplies in this way? And understand this, in such a situation as the current European countries, even Hungary, even Serbia, are all looking for alternative suppliers. Everyone understands that if urgent measures are not taken, there is no certainty. That's what everyone's doing right now. So this effort to agree on additional quantities of Azerbaijani gas that must be a national thesis, this effort to have liquefied gas and a long-term contract must be a national thesis, everything else is very dangerous and critical to understand exactly in winter that it will not happen this way. And I challenge you, you will see, it is clear that you are going to election and office, the office will do what you want, will start paying gas with rubles, and then you will see that this does not lead to any certainty and that we are right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u91	Thank you. Mr. Karadaye wanted the word by procedure. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Here's a personal explanation. I didn't understand what you were affected with, but... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would pass the generous blur they sewed on me, but since this is about very clear positions of my party, if I may clarify, so that it is not obscured. Mr. Dimitrov, when I speak, I don't blur, I'm even very blunt, or you don't want to understand, or you can't. Our party, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has nothing to blur. We have been proposing much more serious things since 2016 in the direction of energy independence. In our program there was a proposal for a green economy, for green energy. I'm gonna go a little further than that, something you don't have to know, but to tell the House. Out of all Bulgarian MEPs, the only ones from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Nordic MPs tabled a proposal in the European Parliament to not confuse the year, but I think it was by 2030 to stop the use of Russian gas at all. You don't know that, do you? There's nothing to put on here. We're talking here about politics being an art of opportunity, not looking at the ceiling and doing stupid things or corruption schemes. If it's possible to stop Russian gas, we stop it, we say it clearly, all the authorities decide, we show where the economy will be charging, the bit and so on and that's that. If it is not possible, we stand honestly as Germany, like Italy, as Greece, and we say: "We will go in this direction, but we will do something else right now. " - What is the blur here?! We will lead the country to energy independence, to green economy and to green energy. That's clear. The question is how is this done and on whose account? If it's at the expense of people, there is no policy that can justify it if we do something bad for people. There isn't one! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's no such geostrategy as to do bad things for people and be good. The art is to combine geopolitical solutions with the good of the people. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u93	Are you still asking for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. President, I propose that, as the discussion is very important, we are also in an energy crisis here in this House, during this debate, we believe that at least the Minister of Economy and the affidavit Prime Minister in resignation Kiril Petkov should also be present here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u95	Mr. Karadaye, these qualifications are not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u96	And the Constitutional Court said that. But for what Mr. Tsonev said. Just once again, here in this House, that since 2016 in the Programme of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Freedoms, the main focus has been the green economy and, in particular, green energy, but this is a long-term policy. We suggested it be a priority for the country. Unfortunately, we didn't get an agreement at the time. But one more topic missed Mr. Tsonev. We also talked about green energy subsidies to be for every household, for every workshop and for the business as much as they spend, and not for subsidies to have for the oligarch, the energy-media monopoly Ivo Prokopiev, to make plantations for energy trading. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u97	I didn't understand the procedure, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u98	Mr. Chairman, if it's not clear, let me say it one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u99	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u100	The deputy Prime Minister of Retire Kiril Petkov to come to the Chamber during this discussion, because in the Report there is him and the Energy Minister in Retire to come here, in this Chamber, because there is him too. There must be other people, but this debate is important. This debate is important for all MPs and for the whole public in Bulgaria, for the whole society, for business. This debate is important! They're bound to be here in this room...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u101	Okay, I get it. You've taken the floor twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u102	...to invite them, even more to come and rest by the rules. So there will be time to come so that in their presence and with their participation this debate can be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u103	Okay, we'll let them know, I get it. The next entry is Mr. Nestorov. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, come on in. I don't see what his problem is with leading. But... [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Why don't you speak, and in the manner of conduct, I can't understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will use the right for whatever procedure not only I decide, but when necessary, to make you a note in the manner of conduct. Because, Mr. Chairman, you did not interrupt Mr. Martin Dimitrov in his speech while he spoke absolute untruths of this tribune. I would like to remind you that for diversification, while Mr. Dimitrov spoke, others to whom your speech was directed, designed, financed and started building the gas connection. Is this real diversification, Mr. Dimitrov? Yeah. Moreover, while you are only talking to each other, Mr. Dimitrov, others made it possible for Bulgaria to be a partner with 20% in the LPG gas terminal in Alexandroupolis. While you are only speaking to each other, and not true, Mr. Dimitrov, others, and this is GERB and its governments, were building the interconnector with Romania. While you are only talking to each other, Mr. Dimitrov, others, and these are the governments of GERB and Borisov, replaced all compressor stations with reversible ones. In this sense, Mr President, it is my note to you, in the manner of conduct, to make a sharp remark on such statements, because they are totally untrue. And otherwise I add, if I may, when you invite the Prime Minister to resign Cyril Petkov and the Minister of Energy, to invite the management of the "Bulgargaz" to invite the management of the "Bulgartransgaz" to invite perhaps the head of the Prime Minister's cabinet to resign, because she definitely has much more information about all the processes. Because she's obviously negotiating gas quantities at a four-fold lower price. It is therefore necessary that Mrs. Lena Borislavova also be in plenary. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u105	Mrs. Atanasova, because you made me a note, to make you a note, that you made a reply to Mr. Dimitrov, not a procedural statement. That's my assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u106	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u107	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u108	No, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u109	For a personal explanation, that's good.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u110	How do you explain a personal procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u111	He was affected directly by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u112	I was hit by a roll call. Colleagues from GERB, as you are so sensitive on this topic, should not have had a point. 6 in the report you signed. Point 6 says that gas should have continued to be purchased from Russia. That's what it says. 6. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And Mr. Mitov specifically explained what this means.. how there were northern countries that bought gas by the end of the year and then began negotiations on some alternatives. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Mitov.]] And I have something else to tell you, something even more important to tell you. If you had done your job and last year you had bought the Azeri gas in full volume, Chiren would be full now. However, you have found excuses for how this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u113	Is this our fault?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u114	So now in Chiren is not complete, which is a very important issue. Let me also tell you: please do not mention the gas connection with Greece. We from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria asked every year what was going on! Every year! There was, it should have been started 12 years ago. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And I'm giving you a comparison that the Suez Canal, which is built with the Rover, has built it! This gas connection with Greece, which you are bragging about today, which is ridiculous, was supposed to start in 2009, and it will only be ready now because it has changed power. And I, my colleagues, fear that if there were no new government, this gas connection would never have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u115	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u116	But the most important thing I want to tell you is something else. The most important thing is: people, you are extremely naive that if you pay for the gas in rubles and return to Moscow, we will have no problems. That's your most naive thesis. This will lead to a trap, a systemic problem. I'm telling you again, everyone's looking for alternatives. So don't fall for that line. The only way to ensure the security of Bulgarian citizens, a calm winter, is to give them these alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u118	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u119	Wait, wait, wait! The next recorded statement, as I reported, is Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u120	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u121	Now I'm taking half an hour off so we can notify the officials you wanted to be here. So until 12.15. I'm going to take a break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u122	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. As I told you before the break, the next recorded statement is Mr. Nestorov. Mr. Nestorov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to give a special greeting to the Commission, its work, the way in which the report is drawn, the Commission administration and, in general, even how the President read it. But coming to the point, the first thing I want to say about this report is that he may also be missing out on some of the damage, with an apology that this majority has done. I'll start there. Does anyone remember, colleagues, what was said in December about Nikolay Pavlov, the former boss of the Bulgargaz? You put him on a list, you took him out, and now what's going on? Much more than much worse! And it's not a bad idea to do an analysis of Bulgargaz's financial situation then and the financial situation now. It is impressive to hide documents from the Ministry of Energy and secondary officers and the totally ridiculous way in which the Council of Ministers takes this decision at an operational meeting and then is justified by the Deputy Minister. The total idleness we warned about from this tribune, on the eve of the war, to sell hundreds of thousands of megawatts from Chiren will actually come out through our noses and make gas more expensive than it is, not only does it have to fill it at more expensive prices. It is also important to note that Bulgaria is currently receiving gas from the company owned by the company "Gszprom" with 30% more expensive price, which in modest calculations leads to losses of over 100 million per month for the Bulgarian taxpayer, honourable colleagues. But I want to focus mostly on the way tenders have been conducted and the method of selecting alternative suppliers. There have been numerous violations in the ranking and selection of companies to sign supply contracts. By submitting a request for tenders for the delivery of quantities of natural gas in May 2022, In addition to the request of three traders, Bulgargaz has put at risk the security of supply, indicating as a point of delivery a virtual trading point in Greece. In this way, if the Greek operator interrupts the gas flow to Bulgaria for their reasons, including reaching the technical capacity of the Greek transmission network, it will be unable to deliver the amounts paid and purchased in Greece to the Bulgarian market and would suffer damage in huge proportions given the size of 61 thousand. and 500 megawatt hours, which is the quantity you are looking for per day, and which is the consumption of Bulgaria. There are no objective reasons for the different treatment of potential suppliers, delivery of virtual trading point in Greece and Bulgaria. This puts disadvantaged operatives at a disadvantage and makes it difficult to compare objectively from bid prices. At least account should be taken of the additional transport costs, capacity across the Greek network and the booking of the built-in capacity of the Tower of Sidirocastro for the quantities of natural gas purchased at a virtual trading point in Greece, as well as the risk of the inability to carry the purchased quantities in Greece from Bulgargas to Bulgaria. Examples. The offer of a supply company in 2022 was received at 12:00 after the expiry of the deadline set by In addition, all offered quantities with the condition of delivery of the gas transmission networks in Bulgaria and Greece. This includes the risk of both a disruption of the supply from Gazprom to Greece, as well as the lack of free transmission capacity when reloading the flow between Greece and Bulgaria. The offer for delivery is for the full volume that Bulgaria is looking for, but "Bulgargaz" confirms it partly for quantities of less than half. Although the offer is not solid and the delivery is not guaranteed but under a large-scale condition, the offer is ranked first and the contract is signed. At the same time, the bid received also after the 12:00 deadline of another company was disqualified due to the existence of one condition for force majeure, much more specifically than that of the previous companies, and it was an interruption of the delivery from Russia to Greece, although the company offered by 2 euros a cheaper price of megawatts than the one ranked in third place. Another company's offer for $30,000. Megawatt hour per day, again received after the expiry of the deadline set by Bulgargaz, is nevertheless ranked by the "Bulgargaz" and a contract is signed. The offer is solid, unconditional and for quantities that cover half the size for the necessary amount of Bulgargas and about half the daily consumption of the whole of Bulgaria in this period. This is evident from the publications in the Greek media of April 8th, colleagues, that MET has reserved the unloading capacity of the terminal in the Revitus for sale in Bulgaria and concludes that MET has probably had preliminary information on the specific needs of There is no logical explanation for the willingness of any trader to respond to such an invitation with a tender period of one day and with quantities of natural gas satisfying half the consumption of an entire country for which the same trader also purchased a slot at the terminal in the Revitus, even if the Greek state company having long-term contracts for the supply of Russian and Azerbaijani liquefied natural gas was sending out a benchmark rather than a solid offer and additionally placed a number of conditions in its bid to the Bulgarian authorities in order to be able to offer the quantities requested by Bulgargas. Moreover, it is noticed that the company, which has a direct contract to the company, is the only company that on 26 April is invited to submit an offer not for 61 thousand. and 500 a day, like all the others are invited, and for 30,000. megawatt hour. It can be assumed that if there is indeed a prior agreement with the previous company for delivery of 30 thousand. Megawatt hour per day, the company is invited to participate only for the rest of the company to not endanger one volume. Contracts were signed with other companies, at higher prices, again invited for different quantities. On 28 April after receiving the bids from the initially selected companies and after signing the contracts, additional companies were invited to submit offers for the same period, but only for 5 thousand. The megawatt, which means we've got 30,000 of them back somewhere. Another company is disqualified, although it has submitted a binding offer due to the existence of force majeure conditions in the offer, while one of the first was ranked first, despite the existence of a much larger delivery condition. A contract has also been signed with another firm at a higher price than the two proposed by the other companies, higher than the two I mentioned earlier. Dear colleagues, the method and the way in which all these things have been done are a huge threat to Bulgaria's national security. Only incompetence is more than corruption in this case. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u124	Are there any lines to Mr. Nestorov's statement? I can't see. The next recorded statement is Mr. Zhecho Stankov. I don't see him in the room, and Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova is in that situation. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! My fellow Members, I believe that this report, which Mr. Mitov read from this platform, provides answers to many questions that have arisen in recent months. First of all, I dare argue on the basis of what I have heard from this report, that the myth of fighting corruption, of zero tolerance for corruption, of publicity, of transparency, of returning parliamentaryism has completely collapsed. It's just that what's been going on in Bulgargaz is a picture of what's been going on throughout the country. First of all, it became clear that the information related to the termination of the supplies from Gazprom Exports to Bulgaria was presented manipulatively. This was the right word, I have written it down that the information is incomplete, that "Bulgargas", analyzing all the facts and circumstances, has missed a helpful part of the correspondence between Bulgargas and "Gazprom Export" and such information has been provided to the Council of Ministers. We also understand that the Council of Ministers on 13 April at its operational meeting decided not to accept from this point on the conditions that the Gazprom Export is putting unilaterally in relation to the changed situation and the changed way of payment. After this decision of the Council of Ministers, you can see that Bulgargaz did not have in all likelihood a very broad field of action. With regard to the so-called alternative supplies, honourable Members, we understand that these alternative supplies are made not on the basis of public and transparent procedures, but are made on the basis of electoral and liked by the bosses of There are about 40 licensed natural gas traders in Bulgaria, but oddly enough why only 10 or 12 companies have received such invitations. We cannot in any way speak here of publicity or transparency or the same criteria. The offers submitted by these companies became clear that they were submitted at different times, offers that did not meet the previously announced conditions were accepted as normal, something more, contracts were concluded with these companies. Contracts have been concluded at prices higher than those offered by other natural gas traders, but they are strangely why they have not been accepted. All this creates a lot more questions than answers. This behavior is inexplicable and here it smells like corruption and corruption. So, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, this report has really made us clear on the government's natural gas policy. Not to mention the fact that these governors left the country without gas. This became clear from the hearing of the Executive Director of Bulgargaz, who stated that by mid-August we have some supplies guaranteed, but then by the end of the year there is no natural gas for Bulgaria. And here I will allow myself to disagree with Mr. Martin Dimitrov, who explains to us how almost we of the Political Party GERB are about to be paid under the contract with the Gszprom in rubles and that nothing is done for alternative supplies of natural gas. First of all, Mr. Dimitrov is wrong that we are paying in rubles because no one wants such a thing from us. And if you get acquainted with what was delivered as information from the report of the Temporary Commission, you will see that the "Gazprom Export" has sent to the "Bulgargaz" instruction, which makes it clear that no one expects the "Bulgargaz" to pay in rubles "Bulgargaz" has to pay in the currency provided for in the contract and the commitment of the "Gazprombank" is to overturn, with this overvalutation being carried out within two working days. Any theories about currency risks and any other speculation just collapse because, as a person looks at all the documents and all the facts, he sees that it is quite another thing. So with regard to Mr. Dimitrov's thesis that we're almost about to pay in rubles, I just want to say that this is another manipulation from this high tribune. As for alternative suppliers, that almost no one has thought about it, I would like to remind my colleague again that if there is someone who has done something about diversification of sources and routes for natural gas supply in Bulgaria, these are the three governments with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. No one else has done anything at all. [[Laughter and lines from the National Representative Andrey Gurov.]] It's not funny, Mr. Ghurov, that's the facts. That's the facts! As early as November 2016, we built the first interconnector between Bulgaria and Romania. 2016! Bulgaria did not have any interconnections with our neighbouring countries. In November 2016, we built Bulgaria's interconnector. The Interconnector Greece.. Bulgaria we made it possible. And the theory of these 12 years, which is constantly shared by this tribune, which is an absolute lie and manipulation. Just once and for all it must be made clear that the interconnector Greece There is no way the Azeri gas will come to Bulgaria if these infrastructure projects are not available. They became ready at the end of 2019. The Trans-Anatolian gas pipeline and the Trans-Adriatic gas pipeline at the end of 2020. From the first moment this infrastructure is in place and the entry point of Naia Mesemvria was built at the end of 2020, Azeri natural gas was delivered to Bulgaria from 1 January 2021. And since we were accused here that we almost didn't do what was necessary to get the full quantities, I would like to tell Mr. Dimitrov that there are rules, there are reservations of capacity and not everything depends on someone wanting something. And another clamp, if I may. From 1 July it is now explained how we get the full volume of Azeri gas of 1 billion. cubic meters. However, it is good to ask the government at what price we get the difference of 300 million. cubic meters of gas that we negotiated and signed an annex, we get them at the contract price, that is, at the low price, and look at that 700 million. cubic meters of gas that we've been getting since July 1st, at what price they are. They are not at the contractual price, they are at market prices. And in all likelihood, when one analyzes all these facts and circumstances, it will come to the conclusion that there is nothing surprising about the application deposited today by the Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) which requires an increase in the price of natural gas by 55%. With 55% the price for August will be increased! I don't know how we can explain it to you, in fact, to the Bulgarian citizens and I don't know what is the understanding of the governments for diversification of natural gas supply and the separation from Russian natural gas, after as a result of the actions of the government and the management of Bulgargaz. If this is diversification, I can safely say that this is another lie and manipulation, like many others, which we have heard in the last seven months of your reign. So, honourable Members, the report is really very useful because it gives Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian society a clear picture of who has done what, who respects the laws and who cares about the interests of Bulgaria. We didn't have any intermediaries, but on the contrary, we removed the intermediaries. You introduced the mediators and re-entry Russian gas at 30% higher price, talk about diversification and how in six months you built the Greek connection. I'm sorry, but it hasn't been built yet, hasn't been put into service, and I don't think there's Act 15. So all these pictures of the Prime Minister in resignation Petkov with the crane are nothing but a butaphory. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u126	Replies to Mrs. Petkova's statement? Do you want a line? Here's a line. I hope it's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petkova, I would like to address you and to tell you that in one you are not entitled to have a new price of gas from 1 August for the simple reason that we do not currently have a legitimate elected President. We have been elected against constitutional rules or directly unconstitutionally elected president, who no longer has the right to sit in his office. However, the truth you are saying is that an additional 55% will jump the gas, which in the last three months, by collecting all the percentages, the gas jump is over 103%. For the last three months! 103%! What you supported in this House and you, as part of the Energy and Budget Committee, will fall VAT on the bread by 20%, we already dream not of falling the price of bread, but at least keeping the same, not saying not to jump by another 20%. So I just want to make this appeal to you: take an attitude in your back about whether you really will jump the price or not and what impact it will have on the market, on the industry, on the people, on, if you will, the heat efficiency. Did you notice how, before leaving, the Honorary Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission introduced a check into the Sofia Heat Efficiency and deliberately lowered the gas component in the pricing of the Or, in other words, we are moving towards a secret privatization of Bulgargaz. The state-owned energy company, which at your time as a minister, was 99 million profit at the end of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u128	Another line? Here you go. You are the next recorded speaker, but your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Petkova, foreign exchange risk at a type of "K" account, which is proposed by "Gazprom Export" there is. That's the risk. That's what the legal consultants in the legal analysis actually say, which is a lot of pages. You've met him. I also know from the Commission that you've met, but now you're missing the point. All of this risk around the transfer of dollars and conversion into rubles through the Moscow Stock Exchange and the power supply of the ruble account is entirely carried by the Bulgargaz. It's not the risk of this thing, it's not Gazprom, it's not the Moscow Stock Exchange, it's the Bulgargaz. The risk is associated with the delay and lack of currency of the Moscow Stock Exchange, and it is therefore possible to default the payment and hence lack of gas, although we have already paid our obligations under the contract. So there's currency risk. We need to be precise in our speech when we talk about the so-called "type K" account, which was unilaterally imposed by the Bulgarian State. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u130	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u131	Do you want a line? Three. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u132	Mrs. Petkova, I understand you've just read the report in question, and on what I've heard, you've seen inside, but you don't mention that there's a real currency risk of someone paying and not getting their gas. So, which country, company or any establishment paid the bill in question and the world didn't realize that the Russian Federation lied to him, wronged him, took his money and didn't give him the delivery in question? Who? I'll tell you because I don't know if you'll say it. There's no such thing. You lie, you lie, there's no such thing, there's no such thing, there's no lie, there's no deception. There is no risk, as you have heard to the Commission... [[Heckling]] No, you're taking the liberty of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u133	Mr. Ganev, you're making a line, though, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u134	So, what you've heard very well is that there is no payment in rubles. There's a payment in dollars. There is nothing like it that I do not know what eyes you continue with at least the Democratic Bulgaria has stopped repeating the mantra today. What kind of eyes do you say you pay in rubles? No, you don't pay in rubles. Yes, you have destroyed Bulgarian energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u135	Here you go for the dot, but let me say this one more time. Let's stick to the rules. The line to be a line to the statement, not to the other line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the colleagues who replicated me. I'll start with a line from my colleague Stankov. Yes, indeed, the situation we are facing is extremely serious. I dare say she's very critical. Without the existence of a legitimate Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, this extremely important regulatory authority in the country cannot make any decision. It's extremely irresponsible what might actually happen. On the part of the ruling majority, there is an absolute reluctance to resolve this issue, although today, during the meeting, we proposed that an item be included on the agenda with decisions proposed by the opposition and that the elected President Ivan Ivanov be restored legitimately, as the Law and Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria dictates. The Law states that he, Mr. Ananiev, serves until the election of the next chairman of the KEWRC. This was not the case under the constitutional decision from 9 February until now. So it's nice to read the laws and the Constitution. The problem, Mr. Stankov, is really extremely serious. You're right, there's no one to confirm the August price for natural gas. This will lead to very serious problems because business will not know at what cost to include in the cost of the produced goods and services the natural gas component. This will lead to extreme problems. Until bankruptcy, maybe in companies. It's really very serious. As for Mr. Stefanov's line. Mr. Stefanov, there is no currency risk. He doesn't exist because I saw the instruction, I saw what was written in it. It makes it very clear that, in fact, the commitment to re-valutation is solely and only of the Gazprombank. It is the bank that has a commitment to overturn within two working days. Bulgargaz's commitment is to pay in the currency of the contract. Do you think that if there were such a risk, countries such as Germany, such as Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, Italy, would have taken such a risk? In my opinion, the real risk is that Bulgaria will be left without natural gas in autumn and winter. This will put more than energy security at risk. He'll put the country's national security at risk. This is the real risk facing Bulgaria. We must do everything possible to minimize this risk, take action and really provide natural gas for Bulgaria. Because what you, in fact, as a government and as a government, are bequeathing to us is nothing but crises, crises everywhere, and the most serious crisis is energy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u137	Mr. Ramadan Atalay, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, there was a 30-minute break, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov should be invited to attend, including the Minister of Energy, and Mrs. Lena Borislavova. In this report, fellow Members, when I look at the PP how you grabbed the phones, a letter will pop up and you will not understand what we are talking about from this tribune. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, we are talking about the fact that the Prime Minister has not made a decision. We are talking about the fact that the consultant says that the Treaty has been unilaterally terminated with "Gazprom." We're talking about 300 million is a higher price for the gas you've delivered in the last three months. We're talking about 300 million is the loss of Bulgargaz in these three months. We are talking that those gas supplies that you negotiated in the middle of the ocean are 30% higher than the gas that Bulgaria could receive. Colleagues, we're talking about a very serious corruption scheme. It may be ignorance, but it doesn't relieve them of their responsibility, Mr. Chairman. So my suggestion is, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's drop the phones. If we in this House today do not understand that what we are looking at is that document that presents us with the real situation of gas and what will happen in winter, how do people understand outside this room? Therefore, Mr. Chairman, please invite the Prime Minister, invite Lena Borislavova, invite the Minister of Energy and Mr. Assen Vassilev. It is not necessary for you to invite the directors of Bulgargaz. They did what they were told. What did they do? They've been putting in middlemen sent by the prime minister to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u139	Mr. Atalay, the request made for the ministers, the officials to be invited, has been notified. The ministers are outside the capital, so they can't be present. So I'm informing you, as many times as you have to make the request, there's no way we can force them to come here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u140	Rashkov to arrest them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u141	The next entry for speech is Mr. Vassil Stefanov from
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, during the Temporary Commission for Facts and Circumstances, the report was adopted by Mr. Daniel Mitov about the stopping of the gas from the "Gszprom" with President Daniel Mitov. Why do I stress the name of the President, with all due respect to him, of course? The Commission was set up for a period of one month, and we extended its term in plenary by another month, that is, the Commission was working in the period 11 May 11 July 2022. These dates are visible from the National Assembly's website even to date. However, Mr. Mitov called a meeting last Friday, on 22 July 2022. Then I asked which Commission is meeting, who are its members, on the basis of which text of the Rules there is even a meeting of the already terminated Commission? I even quoted the text in art. 36, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where it is stated that the temporary committees cease to exist with the expiry of the period for which they are created. We just had a call to read the laws, to obey them and so on. This was an example when literally the Rules were not followed, literally. In the context of a gross violation of the Rules, because this is a gross violation for me, it has been explained to me that the Commission has formal and informal meetings, such as the adoption of the Report was in the framework of an informal meeting. There is no such distinction in the CMS, but on expiry of the Commission it was nevertheless carried out. Unfortunately, the violations of the rules didn't stop there. At yesterday's meeting of the Commission, the President allowed a procedural proposal to be literally violated. 63 of the Rules of Procedure, which sets out which proposals are to be voted in order, and before the editorial amendments to the Report from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria" Mr. Mitov allowed to vote on the main proposal. It is clear to all of us why this was done so that the so-called framework of the Report could be accepted, i.e. the one Mr. Mitov prepared, without the right to differing opinions. Therefore, I personally voted against the report and signed it with a particular opinion. Now to the substance of the adopted report. For me it is written extremely one-sided, not objective, and much of the factology is incorrect, incomplete and interpreted according to the subjective notions of the written report. By virtue of the majority, no number of adjustments were added to it, which reflected factology and brought some balance to those of the Report. To get an idea, the report is about 24 pages. The Motions of the Change Continued were about 15 pages new 15 pages to the already prepared report. Of these, exactly three paragraphs were adopted - not the pages, the paragraph. I was most impressed that, according to the report, the mix of gas in Greece is only Russian, with the quantities that we imported from there being also Russian and not a mix of Azeri, Algerian, American and Russian gas. So much for the objectivity of the Report and the lack of one-way political interpretations in it. In fact, the report did not make clear the timeline of the events of April, and it is the following: "Bulgargaz" EAD has a Natural Gas Supply Contract with Gazprom Export, which is in force until 31 December this year. That's indisputable. In the Treaty, the payment is settled in state deposits. That, too, is undeniable. On March 28th, with a value of 29 March, i.e. even before any edict, Bulgargaz.............................................................................................. Only then on 1 April, the President of the Russian Federation issued an Decree, with which all payments want to be made in rubles and not in currency under the Treaty in rubles. That's why we were just talking. Only on April 5th the translation of the Bulgargaz is returned from the servicing bank. On April 7th, "Bulgargaz" again attempted to pay the US dollar dues, and the contract concluded requires whatever is the pro-form invoice request of March 18th by Gazprom Export. Meanwhile, the Bulgarian Energy Holding assigns its name several times to an international law firm, but I will save it for the international law firm used by BEH more than once. It is hired to carry out an analysis of the unilaterally imposed changes under the Treaty, which analysis says that there is a significant risk to the Bulgarian side, as the proposal could place On the one hand, to pay the amounts and, on the other, not to receive the gas supplies due. Not to mention that the disclosure of a type K account, as Putin wants, means any dispute about it, notice, to be dealt with in an Arbitration Court in Moscow under Russian law. The Minister of Energy from the quota of the "There is such a people" has been in constant communication with the appointments by the Director of the Council of Ministers himself and has prepared a report with recommendations and concrete proposals for the Council of Ministers. The analysis of the office, the report of the Minister of Energy together with the proposed five points for follow-up was sent to an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 April. According to the performance of art. 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers he approves the same points proposed by the Minister of Energy. On 27 April, the second attempt to pay the Treaty in US dollars was returned again and the gas stopped unilaterally. We haven't given up yet. This is a violation of the current treaty, provided that the Bulgarian side has strictly complied with all the requirements of it. From now on, as the Minister of Energy has said in the Energy Committee, Bulgaria continues to state quantities to the "Gsprom" which, however, are not being implemented. After all, in all these circumstances, with great effort the gas supplies in Bulgaria were not interrupted. If there are any violations committed, let the competent authorities investigate the persons responsible. We from "We Continue the Change" want the principle of zero tolerance for corruption, which was just mentioned, to apply to everyone in the same way. Summarized, colleagues, everything above means that Bulgaria is an orderly country under the Treaty with Gszprom. She made two attempts to pay in dollars, as the treaty concluded. It did not agree with the opening of a type K account and the taking of all the risk associated with the prevalutation procedure instead of the Gazprombank and the Gazprom to take that risk. Bulgaria continues to state quantities to the supplier. He doesn't deliver them. In doing so, the Gazprom has been put in delay, which would lead to penalties in bringing a case before an arbitration court. These very final conclusions were not reflected in the Report. The overall impression of this political one, because for me this is a political report, is that the government has not made efforts to ensure gas, that the Gazprom is a loyal trading partner and a secure supplier, that we did not have to comply with the legal opinions, the European Commission, the European sanctions against Russia and that we had to agree with Putin's offer of bending hands. Are these the Euro-Atlantic values and the fight against aggression that GERB confesses? It is clear from the Report that the answer is yes. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u143	- What do you mean, lines? Mr. Zhecho Stankov, then Nestorov. You're giving up on Mitov? Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, the Commission in this House has voted on how long it will last. We have fulfilled all our commitments until the date of the 11th, we have held all hearings. From then on, technical work on the preparation of the Report and its vote may continue beyond the deadline and the completion of the Commission's work, official hearings. This is not a precedent in the Bulgarian Parliament. Other temporary committees have worked this way, too, so I don't think we have done anything wrong, all the more so that the Commission is quite legitimate, voted in this House, it exists and has done its job. Secondly, on the occasion of the vote on the main part of the report. It was voted after the vote was cast and editorial proposals with which the Commission's leadership had agreed. These editorial proposals from the parliamentary groups entered the report and were voted on, and then, although we voted on the main part of the report, I made it very clear and said that we would continue by voting on all editorial proposals. We even started voting on them one by one, then we voted on Anbloc as it became clear that the vote was actually repeating itself. So much for technical details. I will not pay attention to all the allegations in Mr. Stefanov's statement, but I will only pay attention to the following. No one in the Report claims that "Gazprom" is a reliable supplier. There's no such thing as that being claimed anywhere! Nor that the Russian side is a reliable supplier. The only thing we're saying is, I'm going to say it again, because this is Mr. Dimitrov's interpretation, and we just talked to him, nowhere in the report is there any claim to such a thing. The only thing that is being said is that a decision for the non-service of the Treaty with the Gszprom is taken in a way that does not involve legitimate institutions, Bulgarian institutions, so that a national responsible solution can be found, as gas supplies are strategically important. And if alternatives are to be sought, they must be sought with national effort, and this effort must be supported. It must be supported by the Bulgarian Parliament, it must be supported by absolutely all political parties, or even if they are not all, to seek maximum consensus, and not to order the Deputy Minister of Energy to order Bulgargaz to terminate the service of the Treaty with Gszprom and to claim that there is a solution at an operational meeting. That's the kind of decision we've never seen before. There's no solution like that. There may be, but the operational meetings of the Council of Ministers are to prepare official decisions, that is, we are discussing something, we are gathering, we are preparing an official decision and then we accept it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is no such thing in the Report that is reflected. We do not know on the basis of what the Council of Ministers, and respectively the Deputy Minister of Energy has ordered to... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ... We do not know on the basis of what the Deputy Minister of Energy has ordered the Bulgargaz to stop the service of the Treaty. It's all done very gray and dark. That's what we're talking about. No one has said that Gsprom is a reliable supplier. Alternatives should be sought, it is clear, but you must make a national effort for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u145	Mr. Nestorov, line two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Stefanov, yes, there was no Commission, but you were there, you made proposals, you voted editorial amendments. So far... You even drew up some of the editorial proposals at the end, but does it make you, fellow Members, an impression? There is talk about the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, about procedures, how one proposal was adopted, the other was not adopted. Well, Mr. Stefanov, we expected from you the specifics, the specifics of how I will not go bankrupt, the specifics of how the Bulgarian business will have gas, the specifics of how the Sofians will have steam this winter, and you entered the specifics and said something like that Bulgaria takes Algerian gas from Greece. Please, let's take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u147	Third line? I can't see. Mr. Stefanov, your coat, please. Extend DSS time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my colleagues for the lines. Dear Mr. Mitov, again, the adoption of the report took place at a voting session, but the Commission was expired. The editorial proposals you mentioned entered were three paragraphs, however, the remaining 15 pages were voted only after we adopted the text of the main proposal. That's what I call a violation of art. 63 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In plenary we have had many cases in which we have respected it, i.e. I do not think that you do not know what this text is, just yesterday you chose to accept such a procedural proposal. I do not know how an illegal solution has been passed through analyses, reports of the Minister of Energy, containing concrete proposals for action, and extensive correspondence, i.e. the institutions have been involved. I don't know how that's a solution, and it's illegal, I don't know... Mr. Nestorov, when you voted to have a Commission because there was such a vote, I stayed, of course. You chose to have a Commission. Of course I'll stay and do my job. And the specifics of the issues listed by you are about a future period, and I argue that this was not within the scope of the Commission, should not have been discussed at all and these issues have not been discussed at all. We had a specific task, how we did it, I already gave my assessment. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u149	Thank you. The next entry for speech is Mr. Zhecho Stankov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u150	Let me just ask you to extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u151	You have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u152	Thank you. How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u153	15 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u154	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is very interesting for me today to hear the speeches of all colleagues who, however, do not comment on the substance of the report. Mr. Mitov, I personally want to congratulate you on the great work of the Commission and you as President, and I personally regret that the report is not Stankov. It is Mitov. It would have been an honor to have such a report, because this report contains only truths. And fairy tales in the direction that the GERB-SDS Coalition would like to pay in rubles for gas are a factual inaccuracies perhaps by colleagues who say these words. The fact that the Commission has been wrongfully sitting is a factual inaccuracies, not to call them lies, but more importantly, here is this. GERB-SDS as a coalition would never afford to bring the state to this point where we have these conclusions that we currently have in the Commission. The energy experts in the group Mrs. Petkova, Mr. Delyan Dobrev, I might personally have, if we had brought the state into the state as we see it at the moment in the sector, we would not only be ashamed to come out to speak from this tribune, and we certainly would not have shown ourselves to the people. What, though, is clear from the Report? There are clear things that have previously been described by colleagues only as claims by the opposition. But now it's very clear what the truth is. The truth, which shows that, in fact, much earlier knew the signal from the President on the basis of what this would lead to in trade relations. It is clear that the state has not taken any action because, if it were us, we would immediately challenge a transparant and transparent procedure with which to invite all world suppliers of liquefied natural gas and that of pipes from the US, from Europe, from Africa, from Australia, if you will, with one main goal: to deliver secure quantities of gas at affordable prices to the Bulgarian citizens. Once again, quantities of gas at affordable prices! Now what do we have? In three months expected increase in gas by 103%, and the most interesting thing is that even a 103% increase does not guarantee us that there will be gas at all, does not give us this guarantee. All we know is it's gonna be 103% promotion in three months. What would we have done? The fastest way to negotiate good prices of liquefied gas and of one by pipe, to reserve capacities where necessary, and not to become hostages to intermediaries, because this whole thing that is described in the Report shows a single prerequisite that everything has been quite serious and long-term designed by our colleagues and a long-term plan is being implemented, which is on top of all being lined up and with an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Mitov, you as Chairman, and I am sure that you also thought it like I did that even if the Minister of Energy wanted to take some action to provide gas supplies, no matter what source, he was told: you will do nothing. And here is even funnier, I say even funnier, because you know that for a short period of my life I have been a Deputy Minister in Energy, the funniest thing is that the Deputy Minister informs the Executive Director of Bulgargaz and tells him: listen, there is a decision of the Council of Ministers here, carry it out and I appoint the Minister of Energy to follow you. The Deputy Minister in his letter says: I determine the Minister of Energy to control you, don't I? [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Jerarchy! "]] The lawyers in our group know very well what this thing means. Several fundamental non-truths, or factual inaccuracies, were drawn by colleagues in time, namely, first of all, that Bulgaria is not diversified. Obviously, the gas has been stopped for several months by the main supplier under a long-term contract, but still the gas does not cut to every Bulgarian citizen, to business, industry, municipalities. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, if I may ask for some order in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u155	Ask the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u156	No, I'm asking you because it's your duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u157	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you on the sidelines, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The additional factual inaccuracies, which also shined, is the 12-year waiting gas connection IGB, or the Bulgarian-Greek interconnector, not to be ready. And I see Mr. Dimitrov... Mr. Dimitrov, 12 years ago, if we had built this gas connection, only one thing would have happened to it, it would have started from Stara Zagora and been tied to the network of Bulgartransgaz and would have arrived in a very beautiful Greek fields, there it would have arrived. Mr. Dimitrov, in order for the gas to come to IGB, it is necessary to be ready, first, TANAP, then TAP, and naturally, to have our opportunity to connect between the Greek connection TAP and our transmission system. So everything you're talking about: 12 years ago it could have been built by me to know it, it's not right. Don't talk about it, because I respect you as an economist, and I hope you realize that if the relationship was ready 12 years ago, it wouldn't have been possible to get gas on it. Surely the turtles would have taken refuge inside, but no gas would have flowed. Certainly another myth that collapsed is that the government is working for the benefit of the people. This is shown at least with the price and uncertainty of supply. And I'll tell you what happens if the price of gas actually grows by another 55%. Here we are talking about the heavy industry, which will in any case close, here we are talking about fertilizers, steel, glass industry and many, many others, which are inextricably linked to the price of gas. And we will get to the food industry, which, even trying, if you will, voluntarily to keep food prices, at some point we from the fourth place in Europe, notice, we are in fourth place in Europe in terms of food price growth, before us, however, notice who are Turkey, Moldova, these wonderful non-Member States, and only Lithuania from the Member States. Bulgaria ranks fourth in the growth of food products. As the price of gas rises, we are certainly headed for the first place, which means that inflation will continue to grow and the Bulgarian will continue to become poor. Another very important thing you shined. Dear rulers, you came with a slogan with zero corruption, which then turned to zero tolerance for corruption. I'm sorry to say, I respect everyone in the Energy Commission. Mr. Tabutov, I am sure that if you were assigned, you would make a good auction or competition to choose a gas supplier. But I don't know why this didn't happen in the company.! Leave this, but we have come to a conclusion in the Commission that some of the gas suppliers have submitted offers before they receive any invitations that they should submit tenders. This means that somewhere else these supplies were negotiated, prices were at the forefront of suppliers, another part disqualified in the background. In any case, there remains one ambiguity with the Bulgarian citizens how and why was this supplier chosen? Not to mention that during the hearing, the Executive Director of the Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) said that in one of the months he had received an offer, but it was the best offer?! I don't know how you can do a race with a horse and finally claim that this horse has no chance of winning?! Finally, so that colleagues can also take the attitude. We have seen a very useful thing in this whole saga, and perhaps the only positive thing that we have seen is that our colleagues in the ruling majority, then the majority, now the minority, have shown how energy should not be managed and every external intervention in it leads to serious problems, which will now be sedated by the caretaker government and further by a very regular one. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u159	First line, Mr. Ivanov "GERB." [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u160	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, Mr. Stankov, my line to you is short. Please explain once again to the Chamber and especially to the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" why 12 years ago it did not make any sense to build the gas connection to Greece. You are certainly aware to explain to the room when the pipes to Greece have been built, which we can now receive Azeri gas in order to fall out of the public space for 12 years gas connection with Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u161	And thank you, Mr. Ivanov, but the Rules say that the line is a short objection. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stankov, honourable gentlemen and ladies colleagues, I am going to show you a graphics from the "Economist" post this weekend, in which you can see the title is "Russian Roulette" (Russian Roulette) import gas for 2021 in billions of cubic meters and here you can see that Bulgaria, together with Austria, imports up to 100% of its gas consumption from Russia alone. [[GERB-SDS lines]] I'm showing this to you, not for anything else, but simply to challenge your claim that there is diversification in gas supply. I believe that "Economist" is making publications that are quite apolitical and are not influenced by, say, we are continuing to change or by some of our colleagues from the Energy Commission. We can see in other countries, such as Italy, for example, Belgium, the Netherlands and so on, countries that have really diversifyed gas supplies. You are talking about the fact that you have ultimately done something in the last 12 years for the diversification we really do not see and neither do any of Europe. [[Heckling]] My question to you is, who else should have done it, if not you? Punching on the chest, that's right, there's an infrastructure built up. Well, yeah, that was your job, but what's the result of this job? We all see that there is no real diversification. You say you were going to invite all the world's suppliers, and if that were the case, maybe this graph would look different. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u163	Mr. Martin Dimitrov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u164	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleague Stankov, please do not distract him, as Mr. Stankov will now want to answer a specific question. Mr. Stankov, my question is very simple: if the gas connection with Greece had been ready earlier, wouldn't it have enabled us to import Azeri gas last year and now that the gas connection with Greece is full? And your committee should have considered that Bulgaria did not buy the cheaper Azeri gas for the entire period, which was possible, how much have we lost? How much have we lost since we didn't buy the cheaper Azeri gas this period? Why didn't the Commission, when it was doing bills, consider this thing how much we lost? And because you say, if the gas connection was ready earlier with Greece, how could it be used? Well, there should have been a liquefied gas terminal earlier, Mr. Stankov. Yeah. This is all working early. Yes, earlier to work on all these issues. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u165	Mr. Stankov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I shall start backwards. Mr. Dimitrov, I fully agree with you. Your question of gas delivery through the Bulgarian-Greek gas connection is very clear. But the only problem here is that you're asking the wrong person and I'll tell you why. I suppose you want me to save time to tell you from the investment decision 2015 until April 2021, while GERB was in power, what was the development, but I will only tell you that we left the gas connection with a clear plan day by day how it should be ready on 31 December 2021 and Mrs. Petkova will support me. From now on, I want you to know something that is also very important. The Bulgarian energy holding company is 50% owner in this gas connection, we have two other users - Greek and Italian through IGI Poseidon. If you look closely, you have the right to familiarize yourself with this documentation, if you look closely at the Ministry, the documents submitted by Kiril Petkov, personally in his report contains the information that the Greek and Italian side itself, which also think economically, because they have put money inside, said that before 2019 the construction itself, if it starts, is not a very good idea, because there is nothing to be attached to. In other words, there is no place for gas to come from. However, I have forgotten here a very important other factological inaccuracies, which you shined through this report, a promise of the Prime Minister that from July 1st we will receive all the gas at the low price, at the agreed price. If we were to receive it, to date, the price would not be BGN 186, and by my calculations it would be BGN 143. That is also important to say. And more importantly, even more importantly, here I will combine my answer to Mr. Ivanov, who turned to me, is that the moment we talk about gas connections, there is no other political party to make us any line from this tribune. And I'll tell you why. At the time of the management of GERB in the new history of Bulgaria was built and the first additional interconnector with Greece was started the construction of the gas connection with Greece, we provided funds for the gas connection with Serbia, in which, frankly, I think the tender procedure is over and there is already an elected contractor, built from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serb border hundreds of kilometers of new gas pipelines and replaced all compressors of compressor stations. Do you know what that means? In Bulgaria there are currently 60% of the compressors on the territory of the Balkan Peninsula, or Bulgaria, whatever happens, can not be surrounded. And as I have admitted to you that I agree with what you say, I hope you will also acknowledge that Bulgaria has left it 100% diversified, because if you say something different, it means that to date there is no physical gas in Bulgaria, and it is not. It's just not like that! Mr. Tabutov, next time I make a commitment to you, give me the screenshot from the phone, upload it to a computer, print it colorfully and talk details. [[The President gives an indication of the expiry of time.]] I like to speak with details, Mr. Chairman, only 30 seconds so I can follow the procedure and respond to Mr. Tabutov. I will now tell you during the reign of the Political Party GERB what we have done. We bought a 20% stake in the terminal in Alexandroupolis, which is due to start in 2024. "Bulgargaz" reserves an additional capacity of half a billion on the Greek link, to which we have been talking with Mr. Dimitrov. We have a billion long-term contract with the Azeri and notice, notice, this is a very important transparent procedure with companies from around the world and a physical supply of 500 million. cubic meters of gas in the Bulgarian system, which covered about 15% of the consumption at that time. So this thing is extremely important to mention. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know what the facts are. The fact is that Bulgaria can import gas from all countries, from all suppliers, and if it were us, we would have done the procedure long before someone showed us a red card that stops the delivery, we would have done...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u167	Mr. Stankov, you're over a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u168	...a nice procedure and have a clear gas delivery under the right conditions, best price and secure delivery. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the extra time. I respect what you're doing. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u169	Mr. Mitev has a request for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u170	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to make a procedure for a change in the Programme. Point 5 to become t. 4 and extension of time until acceptance of t. 4. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, extension to two, three and four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u171	So you have two suggestions. You want a shift of t. 4 and 5 and extending the time until the end of the item. 4. Okay, guys...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u172	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u173	It's a counterproposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making a reverse proposal because I think it is important that we comment on a bill which has already passed a second vote in the Commission, and that is that. 4 which is a bill for ratification of an international treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u175	That's t. 5, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u176	Point five, yes, I apologize. Furthermore, I think it is extremely important that we vote, albeit in the first vote, on the bill supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. So my suggestion is this. Following the end of the discussions on the Report, let us move on to a second vote on the Bill on ratification of the international treaty and the first vote on the Bill on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and conclude today's plenary day. There are committee meetings. I remind you that there is a meeting of the Energy Commission, to which the draft decisions related to the operation and operation of the KEWRC are allocated. I therefore believe that it would be much more logical to extend plenary time with these two points that I propose and then work the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u177	You're practically suggesting dropping point two, that's going backwards, aren't you? [[The references between the MP Desislava Atanasova and President Atanas Atanasov.]] In order for the proposals to be made, I will subject them to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u178	Back-up position!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u179	It was done back then. [[Reply from MP Petar Petrov.]] Yeah, it was practically a proposal, not a reverse opinion. Colleagues, in order to make the proposals: I will first put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Mitev to move the fourth and fifth point, then the proposal to extend the time until the fourth is exhausted and, depending on this vote, we can proceed to the vote on Mrs. Atanasova's proposal. May I have your attention, please? First, I put to the vote a shift of point four and fifth, that is, point five to become point four. And point five is the Bill for ratification of the international contract for airplanes, in short. Vote 222 MPs: 122, against 96, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. In this situation, I am voting on Mr. Mitev's second proposal, namely an extension of the working time until the end of item four, which so far has been the fifth, which is the F's Bill, said in the shortest terms. [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]] Vote 219 MPs: 141 against 78 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u180	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u181	Please, re-election mode. [[Radio, lines.]] Several times I say: we vote extension of working hours to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u182	Read the bills on the items on the agenda from 1 to 5!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u183	Okay, cancel this vote. Let me get this straight. One moment, in the previous vote on Mr. Mitev's proposal, we exchanged point four and five. In other words, point 5 of the Law on the F's, in short, became point 4 because this proposal was adopted. Then Mr. Mitev's next proposal, because he made two proposals in one speech, was to extend the working time to run out of point four. I am now putting to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal to extend the working time until the new item fourth is exhausted. [[Loud noise.]] Could you keep it down in the hall, please? Vote 222 MPs: 150, against 69, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. We continue with the speeches on the first point. You're welcome, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see the hall's full now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u185	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u186	The attitude of the Members of the National Assembly to the agenda is very serious and I will therefore ask the Members of the National Assembly to tell the President of the National Assembly to make the decision on the KEWRC on the agenda and to be included on the National Assembly's agenda today. Colleagues, I don't think this morning you were aware of what this was about. Once the mandate will be returned tomorrow, I think it is clear to you all that it will not take up to 21 days to follow the procedures. In order not to create chaos in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I have spoken to more than my colleagues in the Change House this morning, they have told me that they have not understood what this is about, now they are aware. I ask the President to make the decision item for the Chair of the KEWRC on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u187	Thank you. I hope your chairman heard. The next entry for speech on the current point, namely the Temporary Commission Report, is Mr. Cholakov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, it is good that this report has come in to discuss it, so that at the end of this National Assembly we can also say a few conceptual things. First of all, I want to say one thing that's not conceptual. To my colleagues, Zhecho Stankov and Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, please don't pay any more attention to Martin Dimitrov. I don't know if you've noticed him coming out, sugesting and manipulating this room, pushing the discussion in the wrong direction and then having fun. This is not about reputinisation, it is not about Russia, it is not about who is a russophile and who is a russophobic. Only because it's not good to talk about theft, we need to shift the discussion. Mr. Dimitrov is very good at this thing, like Kashpirowski. Mr. Dimitrov, the magic is gone, rest assured. Get rid of her. Colleagues, all the time... [[Noise and lines.]] If there's gonna be a little bit of no, there isn't. We're talking about protocol, not this room. The whole time I've been listening to the report, and the last few weeks when we're talking about gas, I've got two phrases in my head, two classic quotes. One of them's from Hamlet. Where Polonius says, "It's crazy, it's crazy, but there's a system." And the second, I don't know if you've read Gone by the Wind there's the main character Rhett Butler says in one place: A lot of money is earned in two historical situations.... either when a state is built or when it is destroyed. When it is built, many people earn slowly, and when it is destroyed, few people earn fast.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u189	With bars in drawers!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u190	When it's destroyed! For seven months, colleagues, our country has been destroying itself. When my colleague Delyan Dobrev and I wrote the signal to the DANS, we listed methodically just the facts, what decisions he made, what letters he sent, what intermediaries were involved. And just by ordering the facts, it becomes clear to you first that there is a system, and secondly that this system is for destroying energy. No one can convince me anymore that it's about incompetence, incompetence, some people who had good intentions, but it didn't really work out for them. No, it's about a plan that's methodically implemented. Here you can also put the memorandum with Gemcorp, you can put absolutely anything that happens in the field of energy to understand that this is not madness, but a system. And to understand that this is about destroying the country, from which few people have to make some money very quickly. It doesn't make any sense to explain here professional arguments about how it is done, it doesn't make any sense to talk about the gas connection for 12 years about whether it would have been, wouldn't it? It's dust in the eye, colleagues, who have to hide the sinister corruption that's taking place in front of our eyes. And I say again: it is not only corruption, it is a crime against the Republic! It's the destruction of the economy! And I have no doubt about it. Anyone who has run an enterprise big, knows that when you have a monopoly supplier of goods or service, if you go to ruin your relationship with this monopoly supplier of goods or service, there are two options: either you want to bankrupt your company, or you want to bypass, create a situation of force majeure, and put a bypass through an intermediary from which to take commissions. That's it. They're both crimes! Both of you, colleagues! No one who manages an undertaking would create such a situation with a monopoly supplier that would put him at risk of bankruptcy. That's what the government did and Bulgargaz. They created a risk for the Republic of Bulgaria to fail. However, they created it for the purpose, first, to bring in an intermediary and after the intermediary did his job and made certain money, the enterprise to go bankrupt again! This thing will fall on the caretaker government for better or worse and the caretaker government should know that under the Republic of Bulgaria is a bomb that threatens to bankrupt the entire economy of Bulgaria! I'm just warning you, no, I'm not warning you, I'm just telling you to know that we know. And lastly, the justice system, the justice system really needs to get into function. We are pleased that the letter, our signal from the DANS, has been forwarded to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. And I will personally ensure that this time there is no end, that there is no forgiveness this time, because what was done in energy is indeed a crime against this country. Colleagues, I don't want to burden you with anyone's conscience. So someone for this thing has to lie effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u191	Thank you. Replies to Mr. Cholakov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Balachev, do you want a line? While you're here, let me tell you that you have 20 seconds, with a bonus of 30. An experienced lawyer like you will succeed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Cholakov, I have a line for you. You spoke well about the fact that someone should be responsible, but it became clear from the report that the Treaty has been terminated illegally and that no one until now is talking about what sanctions Bulgaria would suffer, and according to my data it is about 500 million. Euros, and who will be responsible for it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My second question is: why is it that no one, if we are a straight country, as some say, why, until now, three months, when we are nearly 300 million behind, that is, the state has lost because of the difference in the price of gas 300 million. BGN, why hasn't anyone filed a lawsuit if we're so right? My line is to a colleague who claims such a thing. And there is no such thing because I received an answer from the Ministry, where it was not claimed that there were violations of the Treaty on their part, but it was claimed that there was some order and that you see, based on this order for payment in rubles was denied, and in the Treaty there are force majeure circumstances where in this letter...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u193	Mr. Balachev, more than a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u194	Yeah. There are force majeure in our gas supply contract, to which the Russian side has referred and it will be rightly so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u195	Would you like a second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Cholakov, you are a lawyer, Mr. Balachev is also a lawyer. In today's discussion, I think it has become very clear that the Treaty with "Gsprom" has not been terminated. We must make a very clear distinction between termination, suspension and disagreement with unilateral amendment of a contract by one party to the contract, the other being correct, right? If you can, in the back of his head, explain to him that a contract hasn't been terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u197	Thank you. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Balachev, you're probably absolutely right, only I don't want to get into this legal discussion right now, it's a factual answer to Mr. Stefanov. If the contract isn't terminated, there's got to be gas, but there's no gas. Obviously, this contract isn't working. My point, colleagues, was quite different to me. I've been forced into businesses where I've worked, where there's a monopoly supplier of some kind of commodity or service, as I said, for some reason the enterprise decides to get rid of addiction because it's a slave addiction. Whenever you have only one monopoly supplier, you are more or less on your knees. When we have taken action like this, we have always provided before this, and this lasts months, and sometimes years, alternative suppliers of the same commodity and service, only after which we begin to spoil, deteriorate, or as you will, the relationship, including, by the way, it also comes to a situation where the current monopoly supplier, seeing that you already have alternatives, is willing to negotiate for lower prices, for discounts, for deferred payments and so on. So it's a matter of economic resonance, that's how it's always done. When you stop a relationship with a monopoly supplier, abstracting from the legal side of the matter, and throwing your enterprise in a situation to go bankrupt, you want it to go bankrupt. If these people went to Harvard and if they studied economics, they know that because that's what they learn in the book. Once they have learned that in such a situation the company is bankrupt, that means that they aim to bankrupt the company. If they want the enterprise to go bankrupt, it's a direct intent to commit a crime. That's legal logic, you know? Let me quote one more thought from a fiction: Hell is a place where it doesn't make sense, a hero said. We, with our logical reasoning here, have made ourselves hell. I, because I don't want to live in hell, tell you what logic is. The logic is that these people wanted Bulgaria to go bankrupt and will most likely succeed even after they are no longer in the government because the bombs they set will explode in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u199	The time of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS is over, although there is one more recorded. The last entry for speech is Mr. Georgiev from the Revival. [[Noise and lines.]] You want some, too? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to something that was mentioned in the discussion, but we should look much more seriously at it, namely this is an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 April this year. It is decided not to pay under the proposed mechanism, which is wrongly said to be paid in rubles, because it is not actually paid in rubles, it is paid in currency, but it is decided not to pay in this way, as a result of which we do not know whether we will have gas for the next month, what we are talking about already about the winter season. Separately we have a double price increase so far, then we will have an even bigger increase. But here, we from the age of good reason assumed to a point that Prime Minister Kiril Petkov lied for the first time, because he has never lied before, and we know that he is a man who is not lying that he is lying for the first time. But time passed and it turned out that most likely our assumption that he was lying for the first time was wrong and that he was not actually lying, which is how the representatives of BSP voted in the Council of Ministers. This so prominent right-wing party and red color follows, if it is guided by its own beliefs and election promises, to vote against us to stop getting gas from GSzprom and against not being sure whether the Bulgarian business and Bulgarian consumers will have gas at all and at what cost. But time has passed and ultimately we have seen that from the BSP no one refuted the claim of Kiril Petkov, namely that this decision of the Council of Ministers was voted unanimously, as a result we can conclude that the BSP voted for, as did the left party "Democratic Bulgaria" and so did the right party BSP. Then, with a letter dated April 15th... [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Proclaims: "Liars! ")]] I'm not lying! If you think I'm lying, come to the stand instead of yelling out of place, and tell me why I'm lying, motivate yourself. And, in fact, two days later, the Deputy Minister of Energy, on 15 April, noted again, in the same way as he was with Russian diplomats, the Deputy Minister ordered something so that the Minister would not do so, perhaps in order to run away from the Minister's responsibility, in order not to be so obvious, the Deputy Minister made it, and he instructed the Executive Director of Bulgargass not to take action in the implementation of the proposed payment scheme by........................................................... So here it becomes clear what is the correlation between left, right, red, blue or just faceless parties in our country, how everyone protects the so-called Euro-Atlantic values that are expressed in not having gas, having two, three, four times more expensive gas and not being sure next month how the business will work and when autumn comes, how will households heat up. So we want to emphasize precisely that in the end it does not matter who is what is manifesting themselves in this quadruple coalition, at the moment triple, after a time perhaps quadruple, which is actually quadruple, but does not give in any way resemble the former, the previous triple coalition that ruled the country, again with the participation of BSP. Only ablation stands for what it has stated from the very beginning, namely that for us it is most important to have bearable prices and to have gas supplies so that the Bulgarian business can work and the Bulgarian households can heat up. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u201	Thank you. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Georgiev, we basically started the debate very well today with the idea of speaking the truth and sticking to what we actually spoke yesterday and the Temporary Committee. However, you just made a statement that has nothing to do with the truth. The biggest lie you have made out of this tribune is that there is actually a decision of the Council of Ministers, which, even more so, is supported by the ministers of BSP. Firstly, with the letter we received from the Council of Ministers, and you know very well that there is some solution, which is not exactly a solution, but is based on an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers and a decision of the Council of Ministers as there should be none. So I ask you very much not to speculate from the stand, but to speak the truth, as we did yesterday in the Commission, all of this has been repeated. Another question is that one hour ago, based on this great diversification we made, Bulgargaz....................................................................................... the price increase for August by 55% and the proposal of........................................................................................................................................................ for August. However, this is another topic of conversation. So please don't manipulate from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u203	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Georgiev! Parliament has done its job, agility has not stopped lying. Enough with the lies from the parliamentary tribune. The lies you're throwing out of this tribune won't wash your eyes for your DPS votes. No matter how much you say that the ministers of BSP voted, there is no such vote. Or learn what operational means and what a meeting of the Council of Ministers means. Stop fooling Bulgarian citizens! See your votes with DPS and GERB and then talk about triple, about a quadruple and a five-year coalition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u205	Is there a third line? I can't see. Oh, my God, Georgiev, would you like a douche bag? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u206	Lord Svilenski, thank you for not denying again what Kiril Petkov says, namely that a decision has been made unanimously, I stress, unanimously. There is talk of an approved decision from an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 April this year. To repeat for you, because you are hard to hear, an approved decision from an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers of 13 April 2022, with which the Deputy Minister of Energy motivates that this should not be paid under the so proposed scheme by the Council of Ministers. So since you have not refuted what Kiril Petkov says, it is obvious how the representatives of BSP voted. And you shouldn't be trying to fool people here, and you should say yes, we voted, we voted, that's why there's no Russian gas, because Russian gas is a bad thing, that there's some other gas that's a mix, that's a big part of it's Russian, but it's not so bad, it's a good gas because it's expensive because it's not going to be there. Tell these things to the people, don't hide behind the wide back of your coalition partner Kiril Petkov. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u207	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Next statement, Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u208	Mr. Chairman, we are discussing an extremely important report of this committee. He honors the President of the Commission for bringing the data as it is. It is an honor to the Commission that the report has been adopted in this way. He honors the representative of the ABB that thanks to him this report has become in this form again. However, this report says things that, for months, so-called yellow pavement Democrats, or more precisely, "Democratic Bulgaria" and other representatives of the ruling coalition in the face, mostly of all of us, are continuing to change, partially BSP, insolent and unpardonously lied in terms of both the method of payment and the loss and the final price. In the hall is Mr. Mirchev, who repeatedly allowed himself, on all media, irrigation and most impractical, to lie that the price of gas at the end of the year, after we have stopped totalitarian gas from This is one of the huge myths that Mr. Mirchev most unpardonably to date will most likely develop as a thesis, whatever happens at the end of the year. That doesn't bother him. In this report, apart from those non-pardonous lies and those who one other representative of the Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) had just begun to explain, subsequently and "We continue the Change" have developed as a thesis of what losses Bulgaria would have suffered and financial risks to stop deliveries, although we would have paid or paid in rubles, which turned out to be a bold lie, there is nothing like that. But back to the fact that they were debunked as myths, mostly in terms of the Democratic Bulgaria, lying most unpardonably about what is done with the price of gas. The myth collapsed and showed with documents that when the gas supplies were stopped thanks to a decision made with the ministers of BSP to stop the gas in question, a precision of the gas storage facility in Chiren began. Do you know why? In order for individuals to apologize, persons and gentlemen, like Mr. Mirchev, to come out and say how low the price of gas will be. No, it won't be short. We're getting to the point that only a week ago we had 35% filled storage, now we have maybe 40%. This means that at the start of the winter period we will not have gas, we will have stopped deliveries and this whole thing is documented. It is clearly and accurately visible with documents, with statements from the President, the Director or whatever will be the former director of a private company, from which he subsequently gave up and became the director of the "Bulgargaz" and by taking and concluding contracts with his former firm?................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They were ashamed yesterday of the Commission even to use the word "intermediate" "were traders, no, they are not traders, they are mediators so that people like Mr. Mirchev can go out and explain this totalitarian gas how harmful it is, we support Putin's regime and at the same time we buy the same gas again, only with intermediaries at 30.. 40% higher price. And to make the mockery even more complete, it turns out that these same defenders of democracy and defenders of Ukrainian interests miss the fact and say that we should not support the regime in Russia with our money, buying gas, but there is nothing wrong with the Ukrainian state buying oil from Bulgaria, to Lukoil. This is hypocrisy, because this majority, which has here and rules to date, although with a government of resignation and shameful and disgraceful ministers who do not want to return the mandate with the cost of everything, only to bury and be able to appoint their next staff to executive functions, this government is harmful. To have hyperinflation galloping inflation at the moment is thanks to what we have and what you all see right now with this report. I'm glad this report is a fact at the moment...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u209	The weather, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u210	I'm coming. And it is good that there was valour and strength in a large part of the participants in this committee to go out and show the documents, because the great goal was to hide this report. It wasn't even supposed to be seen in the hall today. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to Mr. Ganev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, you've mentioned my name so often that colleagues around me were worried that you might have some weakness. I hope there isn't one. Otherwise, what I have claimed in your statement you are actually contradicting each other, I do not know if you feel it. First you say that I'm lying, then you say that I said that the price will be lower by the end of 2022. Unless you come somewhere from the future! And I don't have that kind of information coming from the future. [[Replications of the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev.]] By the way, the price is currently lower than the price we will receive from Russia. That's why, by "Democratic Bulgaria" we are fighting against those like you who deal only with Bulgaria being dependent on Russia. This is what you want: Bulgaria to remain energy dependent on Russia. Our fight is exactly the opposite. Our country will continue to move forward when there is geopolitical independence and energy independence from Russia. For this we are fighting, and for this we will continue to fight, no matter how much you try to talk nonsense from the stands of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u213	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Ganev, if you'd like to join us.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u214	Mr. Mirchev, we all see how you fight and you have fought so well that as we have diversification in your opinion, we will never have the way you do it. On the other hand, however, companies that were rejected yesterday by the previous authorities are currently on the wave comb and are selling the same gas. That's the one! By the way, a moment ago I forgot to mention one of the other colossal lies that you... your party, coalition or whatever you would call it, I do not know whether you have personally said it is in relation to and commented today about the so-called interconnector bond and everything that has been played out. You do not comment on the fact that in order to be a fact it can be used, and by missing the fact that Kiril Petkov again lied, twisting a crane and running air or water at best, this thing could not have happened sooner, for the simple reason that many other pipelines and many other roads had to be made to reach the gas in question here. Where is your diversification and in what way we cannot, to our great regret, to every Bulgarian, all of Europe cannot make diversification, all of Europe at the moment because of the sanctions that you have personally voted here to be aggravated not only that, so we are at this stage. Because right now, I'm gonna say it again, Hungary signed a long-term contract a few months ago and there's gas supplies.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u215	And it pays more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u216	And they pay at a lower price than people like you, bringing in and bringing in foreign firms to be intermediaries, because you personally have a responsibility for this whole thing to pay the most expensive gas right now. That's why today became clear about 53% more expensive gas and you have the nerve to come out here and say we will have a lower price of gas. Excuse me, where are you? Are you adequate? I doubt it! To say that just a few weeks ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u217	Mr. Ganev, no offense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u218	...the gas price was raised by 34%, today by 53%. Do you realize how much gas prices have risen within a month and a half? You're not giving up! And I'm absolutely sure you don't. You may be aware of it, but the goal is to protect other people's interests, not national interests. Because when you voted here to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, from this tribune I told you that our purely selfish interest as Bulgarians, as a Bulgarian economy, is to protect our supply of energy carriers in any way Because we have a duty to provide our economy. But you don't care about that, and I'm pretty sure you don't care. You are interested in companies to win, intermediaries to win and you to explain to the US Ambassador how diverse you are with ships that will arrive in Bulgaria. Where are the ships of Kiril Petkov? Where are they? You know very well about supplies that must come with ships. You know very well that we do not have contracts for mid-August, September, October, November and December. That's as far as your diversification goes. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u220	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u221	How have you been affected?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u222	Several times you said I was lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u223	Well, come on in. More like you said you weren't adequate. That's more like it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u224	Well, it's the same thing. Mr. Ganev, one thing you're right about, unfortunately, is only one thing, but one thing you're right about. If someone in the Council of Ministers, if someone from the Council of Ministers, from the Council of Ministers, has abused in some way in terms of gas orders, he must get what he deserves. However, you are wrong with your suggestions and attempts to leave Bulgaria energy dependent on Russia. This is against the Bulgarian interests that you claim to be working for. You are also wrong that Bulgaria pays a lot for the gas. You're wrong about the example of Hungary. Unlike you, I've had quite a good practice with Hungary, this is the most gas-owned country in Europe, I don't know if you know it. Hungary is currently paying more than Bulgaria for gas and with its contract with Russia, from which it receives almost all its gas, we can boldly say that Hungary is one of the most screwed countries in terms of gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u225	Mr. Mirchev, thank you. You're a little off the subject of personal explanation. For now, Mr. Atalay's final statement. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, a little less emotions, although all that is said about the report is true. I'd like to say I'd like to give an evaluation for the report. Once upon a time, it was said: "This report, fellow Members, is not a good report. It is a very good talk. " - He is very good because of a few things. Firstly, because the Commission has found the strength and time to invite all the institutions concerned to attend and at the same time to provide documentation that the Commission has been acquainted with, even though the "Bulgargaz" and certain institutions related to the fact that there is a business secret did not give the documents or contracts that were concluded for the two ships of Lena Borislavova and Kiril Petkov. That's where we won't be able to tell exactly what the truth is. In addition, the report says precisely and clearly, colleagues, several things. Why is he so good? First, the chronology that is running shows that for the unilateral cessation of supply with the Russian side the reason is not only the Russian side. And this is written in the analysis of the lawyers, which the Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) borrow to give them the appropriate opinion. It's not a text from the Commission. Next up, guys. The report accurately and clearly states how much the price of gas has been increased. The price of gas for the cessation of supply is increased by 25%, or, to put it simply, 100 million each month more pays Bulgaria or 100 million more we take from gas consumers. For the first time since "Yes, Bulgaria!" I heard here that there should be diversification and they are not against gas supply, but really to have diversification about what I have been worried about for a long time that they do not hold on to this. Because Mr. Martin Dimitrov in 2014, when he was President of the Commission, had the opportunity to make this diversification happen, which he has been talking about for a long time. But sometimes, right, they say, "When a donkey kicks you, don't answer him the same way. " The next thing you have in the Report, colleagues, in these three months, Bulgargaz is in debt by 300 million. The next fact in the Report is that there is no decision of the Council of Ministers on the basis of which Plamen Danailov was framed to sign an order which absolutely does not have the relevant documents on the hierarchy to prove that he must sign and submit a document for Bulgargaz. Whether from Russia, whether from Greece, whether from Turkey, this is a separate issue. Because, again, I say, "Yes, Bulgaria" because they are very familiar with the formulas of the gas, they think that when they intervene, they put in some sort of filter gas and that is why it is no longer Russian. Next thing you know, it's interesting in the report. If so far all I'm telling you is not corruption, I don't know what corruption could be! The next thing that is interesting in the Report is good that this report is there, at least from there we will not argue. What happens to gas supplies so that we have security and every consumer is calm in winter? The Chairman of the Energy Commission, who was supposed to be politically independent, on the day when the Constitutional Court said that he was no longer president, came out and said that "Toplofication Sofia" has an obligation to "Bulgargaz". What about the losses of Bulgargaz? The President of the Commission, then, wrongly elected, didn't he shape them? And today, colleagues, who is guilty of 182 leva. Today, the price that Bulgargaz is presenting to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the next month is BGN 286?! And that's not an increase in the price of gas? The next, fellow Members, the fastest way to do everything possible from New Year to date is 90 thousand. BGN, which Mr. Asen Vassilev said will be held by the company for the interconnector, to come and tell us where the money is located 90 thousand a day!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u227	Ten seconds left, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u228	I don't understand you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u229	Ten seconds left, I'll give you some time to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u230	Okay. To be clear, colleagues, this report needs to be adopted today by the National Assembly, to be a desktop book before those institutions that need to commit themselves to seek the culprits for the corruption of gas supply, including the Prime Minister's responsibility, until the last one in the chain is committed to all the outrage that happens in energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u231	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines to Mr. Atali's statement? I can't see. Mr. Ganev has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to make two terminological clarifications in view of the level of discussion. One would be so we wouldn't be ridiculous in front of some understanding people who listen to us. The term "gas', when referring to a gaseous substance, is male. It's female when it comes to fluid. There's such a word as "gas in the female" as honey is in both male and female, but we're talking about "gas in the male" here. I'm saying this to make it clear that not everyone in this room is using the word in female because it was heard several times during today's discussion. But one thing I would like to say specifically to Mr. Mitov is that in several places in the Report the word "Commissions" was with two "n"s, and the right is one "n" because one is noun and the other is adjective. I say it on purpose because it always pricks me. For me, the criterion is because I teach 25 years of money, banks and financial markets, whether a student understands or doesn't understand, is to test it on this word. So that's why you stabbed me, so I'm saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u233	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I don't know if anyone would want to make a line of these particulars. I can't see. You're taking these details, then. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. We close the discussion and we will move on to a vote which we will prepare slowly and carefully so that colleagues in this House can return. The text is read, I won't read it again. I'll put the draft to the vote. I'm using the time to inform you that at 3:00, we'll take half an hour off. One of the committees, in fact, two committees will have meetings during the break. Perhaps others would take advantage of this opportunity if they wanted to. I put to the vote the draft decision on the Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the verification of the circumstances which led to the suspension of natural gas from the "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from the "Bulgargaz" EAD. Vote 212 MPs: 95 against 69, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u234	Re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u235	Please re-vote. Vote 212 MPs: 94, against 70, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Karadaye, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I propose that the current item four be the second item. So the point for F-16 becomes point two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u237	Is there a reverse offer? Colleagues, we've basically already moved these points, but on the other hand, this is exactly the kind of proposal I think there hasn't been before. [[Heckling]] Yeah, but otherwise done. I think I should put it to the vote. Please vote on item four to become second and the rest are rearranged accordingly. Keep in mind that we have already voted to work today until the adoption of item four included. Vote 212 MPs: 89 against 99, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u238	Re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u239	Let's try it. Re-vote, please. Vote 214 MPs: 92 against 100 abstentions 22. The offer is not accepted. We continue on the so-accepted agenda, which is point two: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Who's gonna report it? Procedure? Declaration by the DPS parliamentary group. You have the floor, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A topic that in recent days has affected the public and public space, namely the topic related to some recordings that we saw on Friday, confirming our Friday declaration and comments on what is there and what is not in these records, who has seen what and what has not seen. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We saw the freedom of speech, we saw the freedom of speech disappear by the method: who saw, saw, downloaded the recordings. It's an understanding of freedom of speech. We've seen how the right-wing Bolshevik themes of media and public space disappear, and then they say, "What's the big deal about these tapes, but the way they disappear from public space, we've also seen it." We've seen freedom disappear at all, dignity disappear, honor disappear, we've seen democracy disappear, statehood disappear, we've seen the country disappear, the country of my country. And in order for all this to happen, the right Bolsheviks again saw that they needed a black devil in the face of political opponents, uncomfortable opponents, so that they could look like white angels. With goebbelish manners and Bolshevik primos are announcing the black devil for the last ten to fifteen years, the DPS mainly repeats their lies as much as is necessary everywhere, but mostly in the media of the oligarch and media monopoly, in whose service they are created and whose interests serve, even announce with whom they can talk and with whom they do not. The Black Devil should not be spoken to because the People's Court of the Right Bolsheviks has declared someone or any party an enemy of the Motherland, a mafia, corrupt or a curse, and if they are spoken to, the truth comes out and black is blurted out, and hence their lies and whites not only become blurry but also cease to be white. We have seen their hypocritical attitude and to those with whom they speak, speak, negotiate for forming a government, and in practice they are lying behind the back of their partners, making traps and infernal plans to look white through their verbal equilibrics, with the pillars and with the lies in order to serve the economic and political interests of their mentor oligarch and media-energy monopoly and use the power as a bat against their opponents, political opponents and economic competitors. And most of all, we didn't see a policy in the service of people and society. We have seen that those who have moved into the political field through the lie, hate, division, opposition to the service of oligarchy, mafia and backstage, those who made it possible to usurp power from the backstage have not a word for people, business, crises, the country, the future of Bulgaria, but we have seen that they are the only carriers of morality and truth. These are the people who turned the lie into a norm, into a law, the oath of advocacy in patriotism, the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria into heroism and the violation of the laws of the country became the emblem of the PP and of this power, and the PP already know it. [[Applause from DPS.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are calling for normality and normality is achieved through dialogue in the name of the future of Bulgaria, in the name of the future of our children and grandchildren in Bulgaria. We therefore propose in dialogue to restore normality, restore democracy, restore statehood in our homeland. We're going to some early parliamentary elections again. We call on each of the participants in these elections to realise that after the elections we will come to the National Assembly. Naturally, those who are sent by the Bulgarian citizens will come to the National Assembly and will have to in dialogue with joint efforts to overcome the crises and solve the problems of the people, but in order to start the dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, it must stop the lie on behalf of the opponents and stop the restoration of communism. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u241	Thank you. Now we can move on to the Bill. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 27 May 2022, the Council of Ministers submitted a report to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 47-202-01-25, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2022, adopted on the first vote on 14 July 2022. supposed to be a second vote project. The Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No....) It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov and Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 136 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 10: Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office (OJ L 283, 31 October 2017) , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/1939', European Delegated Prosecutors shall be assisted by an independent administration. 2. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2017/1939', are deleted. 3. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u243	I am opening a discussion on the paragraphs presented. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are at second reading of a pointless law..................................................................................... The conclusion, i.e. the reasoning to be drawn from this rhetorical question of mine, is one thing: only the one who voted on Regulation No 1937, where the way in which the European Prosecutor's Office is being structured could propose any adjustments to it or propose the development of that act. The development of this regulation could be in two directions. The first direction is to supplement it if something missed when it was created. The second way is to supplement it with some instruction or some other regulation, because the European Prosecutor's Office was established on the basis of two legal acts. One is the regulation which I have just quoted, the other is the opinion and the decision by which the European Prosecutor's Office was established, from 1 June 2021. These are the basic documents on the basis of which this prosecution operates in the territory of 22 of the 27 countries that have accepted it. Why am I quoting this? Because, firstly, there are countries that believe that the European Public Prosecutor's Office has no place, that is to say, exteriority, does not allow it to act on the territory of the State concerned, and the rest who have accepted it have accepted it in carrying out this legal basis. That is, my firm opinion, and I think that if you, because we will not vote or vote against this law, if you accept it, from now on, I see that all interested parties to it, starting with the Supreme Judicial Council, because you are violating the principle of its budget, then go through the very Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria here, not talking about personalities, I say it again. When a law is made to circumvent, hurt or anything, any person, or to create something parallel to what is constitutionally established in Bulgaria, it is obvious that things cannot legally be obtained. There's no legal way this is gonna work! So I asked this question to the Commission, and I ask it to all the sober MPs of this National Assembly, in order to see when you say and make a proposal to amend and supplement a law, you must say which is the legal framework. In the context of these two documents, which set up the European Prosecutor's Office, it does not say anywhere that the national legislative authorities of any of these 22 countries must take any action to further develop this legislation, which has been adopted in order for the European Prosecutor's Office to function normally. That is why I say that he who will support this budget must come and tell me, not only to me, not only to you, to all Bulgarian citizens: what is the legal basis? On which legal document, Bulgarian or international, we rely so that we can claim that you see, we have the right to develop this system? I will immediately then say that the structure and manner of action of the European Prosecutor's Office itself are clearly mentioned in Directive 1939 and then developed in the founding document. It explicitly states what the functions are, what the structures really are. Therefore, I ask: who are we to create a separate prosecution in Bulgaria, which is part of the European one? Who are we to determine how many secretaries to have, what rooms to work in, what budget to have, what salaries to receive, anything else since the wording is clear?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u245	Time is up, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u246	It is explicitly stated that the structure is clear.. the Prosecutor General, the College of the Prosecutor's Office and the permanent chambers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u247	Thank you, enough, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u248	There's nothing but that. In this regard, I will only finish, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u249	I'll give you 10 seconds, and I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u250	Let me finish. In this regard, it is obvious that since our Constitution says that the prosecution is united and indivisible, there is no way we can create the prosecution in the prosecution, because that is why we are being asked to change art. 127, if I am not mistaken, was for the prosecution and to write that, along with the fact that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is unified and indivisible, there is a second Prosecutor's Office, which will be European. However, this will require a constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u251	Mr. Balachev, the discussion on this matter was at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u252	There's a special procedure and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u253	I'm asking you very much to observe the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u254	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u255	I'm gonna cut you off, 'cause it's way past time. Enough! Your time is up. You can take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u256	Don't interrupt me. Your time is up. [[The President cut off the speaker. We are continuing the Change and the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u257	Mr. Balachev, please take your place while you still have it, and so do we all. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, the first reading discussion has passed. This statement can be listed exactly in common wishes in relation to comments for first reading. When we are on the title of the Bill, in principle, a slightly wider interpretation is allowed, so I let you give your opinion in principle under the Bill, but please, once we move on to the following paragraphs, really comment only on the paragraphs. Let's try to keep tight on the program, because we have two more important points. There's gotta be a committee meeting. I ask that we really be strict with regard to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u258	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Balachev, I do not agree with this part of your statement that this particular legislative change has been made against a personal criterion. I can't agree to that. At least as far as I have read the coalition agreement that was presented to us at the beginning of the mandate of the already failed government, namely, Annex one, part two, point 8. There was talk of a comprehensive reform of the prosecution. I have one suspicion, but it's just a suspicion, because in seven months, I didn't see any real data. I have one suspicion that this legislative proposal, which we are still only carrying out organisationally, this legislative proposal is an expression of a possible reform, which at least promised us from the ruling coalition, which is already a failed and non-existent quadruple coalition. My request is, if I am correct, to explain exactly what was the reform of the prosecution under point eight of Part Two of Annex 1 of the coalition agreement on page four? Give us examples of this. If I'm wrong, then prove me wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u259	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. Again, let me remind you that we are discussing the Bill at second reading and it has a specific topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Balachev, I will stick to the texts of your exhibition. It still includes the name of the Law...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u261	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u262	...but I suppose Mr. Balachev took advantage of this situation. I will not repeat the debate at first reading in the Commission. However, I want him to answer the questions because I tried to explain to Mr. Balachev several times. I hope the other MPs understand. I disagree, first of all, Mr. Balachev, that the Law is pointless. The law is extremely important because it will make the European delegated prosecutors work within the meaning of the Bill, namely, independently of the national prosecutors in the case of Bulgarian prosecutors. Your accusation of parallel prosecution, which is constantly being heard from here, does not take into account the fact that the legal documents that you mentioned, are intended precisely to create a prosecution other than national ones. This is a supranational European body. He's not parallel, he's not competitive. It is different, works in interaction with the national in the sense described in the Regulation. You mentioned two legislative documents on the establishment of the European Delegated Prosecutor's Office, namely the repeatedly cited Regulation and the Decision on its establishment. However, you have forgotten the founding... the Treaty of Lisbon. There is a record of the existence of this prosecution. You're saying on what grounds are we creating this administration now, because that's what this is about? The reason is art. 8 of the Regulation in its t. 4 which says: "Decentralised level consists of European delegated prosecutors who are established in the Member States. "We are now establishing in the Member States an administration to assist these European delegated prosecutors whose existence you call unconstitutional, but their existence has been made with other changes, in another National Assembly dominated by GERB. So they already exist. The question is: can they work? Finally, I am pleased to note the fact that you are no longer maintaining, this is § 2, which we are reasoning, Mr President, he has also acquired an edit which, in my opinion, responds to the criticisms made at first reading of possible indiscretions that could lead to the thought of unconstitutional, I see that you do not maintain this criticism. I'm happy with that. I conclude with the following: The law is important and should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u263	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there a third line to that statement? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u264	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am taking advantage of the right of the duplicate to respond to my colleague Petrov. Why do I think that not only this draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, but also other laws proposed by the so-called ruling majority by tomorrow have a single objective....... to make in any way harm the prosecution as a whole, on the one hand, and its leader Mr. Geshev. I mean the KKCONPI Act and other bills we discussed. In addition, it makes me to maintain this thesis and the fact that we are the first country, honourable Members, the first country, not as well as the honourable Mrs. Yordanova answered me, for which I thank, however, that I have an answer to my question: is there somewhere in these 22 countries - are there any structures created that are similar or those that develop these two documents because there is no difference, dear Mr. Zarkov, with the Lisbon one. It recreates, then it's recreated, and in the Regulation, that's where things are covered. If there's such a document, I'm sorry I didn't quote it. Nowhere in Europe has such a structure been created. Do you know why there isn't? Because it's illegal. Because there is no way for us to become the role of the European Parliament or the European Commission to remember this thing. We cannot create legal rules whereby the Bulgarian delegated prosecutors and the Bulgarian prosecutors who participate in the European Prosecutor's Office can act according to our rules. I don't know how to make it simple. What Mrs. Yordanova replied to me says: "We have not gained any experience from French, German, Italian and Dutch legislation, because there is no such law. " - Because nowhere more than one year after the European Prosecutor's Office has been established, there is no such miracle as we are trying to create. Regardless, and here Zarkov is right, yes, the text he proposed was about creating an independent unit. He, thanks to his efforts to do something that is close to legal, gained another formulation. Not to be an independent unit anymore, but to be a register, to be secretaries and so on. This is your proposal, which I do not support, not because it is not a lighter version of what you are proposing, but because, in principle, I say again: we cannot create such a legal act because it is unacceptable. It's unacceptable. In this regard, the error we are talking about is explicitly written in these two documents... [[Replyes: "Search, weather!"]] Colleagues, listen to him if you want. I understand that legality is not your issue. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u265	Don't get into discussion, Mr. Balachev. I'll give you 15 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u266	Once again we will make a law with which we have become a laughingstock here with our triple votes, with the fact that we have made the legislative body part of the side of the road maintenance contracts and whatnot. Let us not make ourselves a disgrace and a disgrace to Europe. That's what I'm gonna tell you. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Zarkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u267	Balachev, don't start new and new topics every time. One minute you're more than that again. Struggle your speeches better. Ten seconds, go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u268	I'm done. Maybe I'm used to it in court. Nobody interrupts us like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u269	That's true, but it's not in court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u270	Yeah, because when it's no use to you and we yell sometimes when we hear something that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u271	Please don't be distracted by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u272	I'm not distracted. In respect of art. 8. Mr. Zarkov, al. 5 which you are quoting gives you no reason to do this because delegated prosecutors are acting prosecutors. They have offices, they have jobs. Only when, because there is one judge, only when he performs the functions [[noise and lines]] , they perform the functions of the same place where they worked before.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u273	We get it, Mr. Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u274	So we have no reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u276	I know you understand everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u277	Please don't start new ones or new ones. Time's up almost two minutes ago. Mrs. Yordanova asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u278	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, you were right in stating that we are not having a debate on the substance which is the first reading of the presented bill. However, given the fact that both the Project and the name of the Law are being debated, I will take your time with several important factual clarifications. Whether this bill amends a regulation adopted by the European Union, i.e. European law in force, is not amended. There is an opinion of the European Prosecutor's Office, which is in the materials under the Bill, expressing an explicit opinion on the full compliance of the changes in question with regard to the Regulation and other existing European Union regulations. As we have repeatedly said, the European Prosecutor's Office consists of two levels: a centralised and decentralised level. The decentralised level shall be the European Delegated Prosecutors, their resource security, the resource security of their activities shall be provided by the Member States. As explicitly stated in the Regulation itself, the activities of the investigation at national level as well as legal assistance shall be provided by the budgets of the Member States and in explicit decisions of the College of the European Prosecutor's Office shall be commented on the allocation of powers of certain European Delegated Prosecutors in the territory of the Member States concerning administrative officers which Member States have made available to the European Prosecutor's Office. So we, with this bill, are solving these issues: how the Bulgarian state as a Member State is fulfilling its obligations. And yes, Bulgaria has not used, we have not used the French, German or Dutch experience in the development of this bill for a single and simple reason "their prosecutors are not like the Bulgarian prosecutors, simply the system is different. We need to adapt the Bulgarian approach to the one that complies with national legislation. So in this case, as a Member State, what we are doing is responding to the insistence of the European Prosecutor's Office and better organising the resource security of their work here. Once again, I say, once again, in line with my obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u279	Thank you for your clarification, Mrs. Yordanova. Are there any other speeches on the paragraphs presented? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u280	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to assure you that my speech will be on the Bill........................ and in particular on the proposal that we have made in the newly created para. 2. Since we are talking that the Bill as a whole is organizational and aims to arrange for the powers of this European Prosecutor's Office established, that is why our proposal is in the direction that this is a structure, unit, independent administration, to be under the administrative authority of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. We cannot agree with the arguments that we need an independent supranational institution. When I spoke before this item on the agenda with fellow Members, I told them that this administrative unit, this administrative structure, administration, or whatever you want to call it, should still be administratively subordinate to the Prosecutor General's Office, and they said: 'A, no, there is no way, must be independent of this structure.' Okay, so what does this mean that the current structure of our national prosecutor's office is dependent, is that it? And I asked them, "Why don't we change it then?" They said, "Ah, no, there is no way, look, we cannot comply with the Law and the Constitution." All right, honourable MPs from the ruling majority and you, Madam Minister, if you have a problem with the dependence of the national prosecutor's office, what prevented you from causing appropriate constitutional changes to allow it to become independent again in your opinion? Just to remind you that six months ago, it was a Temporary Committee for Constitutional Changes that you announced a reform of the justice system, in the judiciary with President Hristo Ivanov from "Democratic Bulgaria" which has not held a single meeting, has not been called once! Then how do you make the National Prosecutor's Office independent? It really can't if you don't work, it won't work. I understand that you want to have, so to speak, a living material for the upcoming early elections and once again to spin this mantra with the need for judicial reform, the relevant judicial reform, including with regard to the prosecution, but we should not ignore the Constitution, which still says that administratively these units, structures, administrations must have a strict hierarchy system and we cannot derogate it. That's exactly what I was proposing. And if I may, Mr. Chairman, here in this Chamber, I would like to make an editorial proposal by adding only one word.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u281	Which text exactly, yours or yours?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u282	... In my proposed text on para. 2, at the end of the sentence, before the word "Guide" If I haven't expressed myself properly and comprehensively enough, I apologize, but our idea is to have this administration administratively run by the Attorney General. So I'm going to ask you to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u283	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u284	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u285	That is to say, the text is under the administrative authority of the Prosecutor General.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u286	That's right. I hope, however, that in the spirit of the proposals made between first and second readings and the adopted by them in the Legal Committee we will put this bill into effect and make sure that the Bulgarian Constitution is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u287	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? Here's a line, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Petrov, in fact, the competence of the European Prosecutor's Office is subject to the circle of crimes which it investigates related to the financial interests of the European Union, and it is perfectly normal when the European taxpayer invests funds in one country, the European Prosecutor's Office has autonomy to investigate them. I do not know how long the change in your attitude has been, and your group wanted the resignation of the Attorney General, and not only in view of his personality, in view of his powers. I thought that at least for a number of groups in this Parliament, including yours, it is undeniable that the powers of the Attorney General should be limited. Now, in your speech, I heard the opposite, and there should be a hierarchy. Well exactly the hierarchy is the problem of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office that it is too hierarchical that the chief prosecutor has too much power that he can too much interfere with the work of the individual prosecutors. This is an identified problem at national and European level, a problem that every Bulgarian citizen has experienced on their backs and is ultimately objectified in the notorious, starting from: "You chose it!" and getting to these photos, records, lockers, which never find a sanction from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. And you in your proposals, Mr. Petrov, honourable colleagues from the first to the last, put the European Prosecutor's Office according to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and in each text you write: Under the supervision of the Bulgarian Prosecutor General. Well, what is this sympathy for the Attorney General, I can't explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u289	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Second line, Mr. Nestorov. Is there a third line? For a line? I thought it was a good speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Petrov, I would like to use this line to thank you and the Minister of Justice for finally breaking the mantra into pieces that this law creates only one registration. Obviously, this thing isn't true. This law has many imperfections, but I will not comment on them in this line. I just want to pay attention to one thing, Madam Minister, and it is that the reason why such a bill is being tabled is that you have no dialogue with the institution, you do not respect the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u291	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. That was more of a line to the Minister, but whatever. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleague Petrov, colleagues! My objection is to your proposal, and I had the opportunity to do so in the framework of the second reading in the Commission that it is conceptually contrary to the regulation. That is, we have a real danger, if your proposal is accepted, of being in breach, of European law, leading to a criminal procedure in relation to the country. This is because the European Prosecutor's Office is being built entirely, regardless of the point of view of leadership and control, by national prosecutors. Yes, European delegated prosecutors are also prosecutors in the relevant system as a status, but this does not put them in terms of leadership and control, hence administrative subordination by the management of the respective national prosecutors. That's exactly what what you're proposing is doing. I just remind you that European law operates in the country on the grounds of art. 4, para. 3 of the Constitution, namely the general, principled provision, which is not a coincidence in the rule of law provision, that Bulgaria is involved in the construction and development of the European Union and, on the basis of, of course, the ratified accession treaties, but I note, with the award of a com-pe-tent, it is therefore ratified by a constitutional majority of two thirds. So let's not mix the two procedures with the national prosecutor's office and the European Prosecutor's Office, giving all the necessary guarantees for the European delegated prosecutors to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u293	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u294	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen replicating, I'm going to start backwards. Colleague Slavov, I think you and I have read in a different way art. 20 of Regulation 1939/2017, where the organisation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and its incorporation in national systems is only regulated in principle. Nowhere there writes and it is not stated that it must be independent, independent and its administration must be separated from national systems. On the contrary, it is the national systems that should arrange for its administration. On the one hand, this is what the Bill is trying to do, but its importers have gone too far in our view, and that is why we are trying with this proposal, so I have also made the editorial amendment to allow it to be possible for the national prosecution to carry out the administrative management of this structure. Let them investigate, no one prevents them from investigating, being self-sufficient, but they should still become part of the task force, whether they will be a structure, whether they will be an administration, by the hierarchy structure of the national prosecutor's office. That's why I can't agree with you. Dear Mr. Nestorov, I understand what you said, but I forgot to say one very important thing earlier. This independent prosecutor's office consists of prosecutors from European prosecutors, right? Only to answer the question: if they are independent today, what were they to be in today? Where do they come from? Have they come from somewhere else, perhaps, or from the Faculty of Law just got diplomas, and from tomorrow they enter the European Prosecutor's Office of Independent European Prosecutors, how do I say, on the political mantra of the ruling coalition? They say so: the National Prosecutor's Office has problems, but where do we get the so-called European Prosecutors? We're bringing them in somewhere outside? And what were they like yesterday? [[Noise and lines.]] Now, I know I need to be heard by the Minister, but I am still trying to tell you that it is absurd what is offered with this bill, as a motive I mean. It's ridiculous as motivation. Finally, dear colleague Bozhankov. Is he here? Yeah, he's here. I highly doubt, colleague Bozhankov, that you have ever seen a live prosecutor working in a courtroom in order to be able to give me a line on how a prosecutor should work, and even a European one! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u295	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I see that there are other speeches on the paragraphs presented, but as I said, I must declare a recess because committees are sitting. I'll give you 30 minutes to rest by 15.40 when we'll proceed with the bill. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u296	I'm resuming the hearing. Are there any other statements on the texts I can't see. We close the discussion on these texts and I propose that Mr. Mateev present the next ones and then, when we finish the discussion on them, we will vote on both these and the following, so that we do not waste time now. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 138 the text of the proposed new paragraph second is amended as follows: The European Delegated Prosecutors shall provide the Prosecutor General with a monthly report on their activities. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, i.e. 2 The provisions of para. 1, t. 7 do not apply 7 shall not apply. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 4" is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. There's a proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Iva Miteva, Andrey Mihailov and Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in the text of Article 139a: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139a, para. 1 at the end of the sentence, the point is replaced by a comma and the following text is added: Art. 139a. (1) The Head with administrative functions of the structure of the European Delegated Prosecutors shall be authorised by the European Prosecutor's Office of the European Delegated Prosecutor, who shall be under the authority of the Prosecutor General. In Art. 139a, para. 2 the words "the judiciary" shall be replaced by "the European Union" and the text of the second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: (2) The means of carrying out the activities of the structure of the European Delegated Prosecutors shall be provided by the budget of the European Union. The head of the European Delegated Prosecutors' structure is an authorising officer with a European budget. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Slavov, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, item 2 of the subsp. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Iva Miteva, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the Art. 139a. (1) The activities of the administration under art. Paragraph 136. 10 shall be managed and organised by a European Delegated Prosecutor authorised by the European Prosecutor's Office, who shall appoint and dismiss its staff. (2) The means of carrying out the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutors and the administration under para. 1 shall be provided from the budget of the judiciary. The Supreme Judicial Council shall designate the European Delegated Prosecutor under para. 1. (3) The Administration under art. Paragraph 136. 10 has a separate registration and filing. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 340, para. 2 after the words of the prosecutors, the European Delegated Prosecutors shall be added. Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 6" is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. There's a proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 342, para. The second sentence is created: "On a proposal of the European Prosecutor from Bulgaria in the College of the European Prosecutor's Office, the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council shall adopt rules for the administration of the European Delegated Prosecutors. "
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u298	I say we stop here. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. Are there any speeches? First Mr. Petrov raised his hand, then Mr. Balachev. I'm recording you two for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u299	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two proposals have been made by our parliamentary group in § 3 and § 4. First of all, in § 3, the proposal concerns our awareness, so to speak, of the activity that will carry out this independent structure, a supranational structure. The idea of this proposal is for it to give monthly reports of what it does. Please do not confuse giving a report to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office with any dependence on the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. We believe that there is nothing wrong with European prosecutors investigating crimes related to the financial interests of the Union, they are independent in their activities, they are reported to the European Prosecutor's Office, but it is still appropriate for the Bulgarian state and its constitutional institutions to know what these European prosecutors are doing. Therefore, our proposal in § 3 is that they submit a monthly report on their activities. We believe that if it is adopted, this will in no way interfere with their independence and with the investigations of the crimes they will commit. We will therefore also ask for the support of this proposal. Our next proposal, for which I am also making a speech, is under § 4, in the current version, as proposed by the importers, the funds for the activity of this new structure or unit, or administration, as you would like to call it, the funds are provided by the budget of the judiciary. We do not agree with this because so far it has been necessary to understand that this is an independent and supranational institution investigating certain crimes related to the financial interests of the Union. Next, it was necessary to understand that it is reported to the European Prosecutor's Office, to which it is subordinate and whose unit is in Bulgaria, and then the question arises why all this will be paid from the budget of the Bulgarian judiciary? The importers say that this independent structure or unit of the prosecution has nothing to do with the national prosecutor's office. Why, then, should the Supreme Judicial Council spend money on it and not directly do it to the European Union by separating money from its budget to support this administration? That is why we have proposed that the maintenance of this structure and its administration be recorded at least that they will be directly borne by the European Union because it is not right for the Bulgarian state to cover these costs. There is no reason why these costs should be covered by the judiciary budget. And here is the place to point out that regarding the opinions made and the proposals made between first and second readings, there is not a single opinion received, although two or three were named as having received the second vote in cash. There is no opinion received by the Legal Committee regarding the proposals made between the first and second votes, which is why there is no negative opinion on these proposals. Therefore, if the national representation accepts that the budget of the judiciary should pay the bill, figuratively speaking, for the activity of this independent structure, then I would like to make an editorial proposal in art. 139 para. 2, where we have written down the proposal that the means of work of this administration be provided by the European Union budget. I would like to make an editorial proposal that the Supreme Judicial Council will build a brand new building for the work of these European prosecutors. If the majority believes that it is necessary for the Bulgarian state to pay the costs for their activities, then why not build them a brand new building, which according to this bill we promise them will use for their administration. A five-storey building, brand new, in a location they choose, the Bulgarian state to build and give them for use. What's the problem? I don't see it myself. Therefore, I would ask that this editorial proposal be put to the vote in addition to what I have already done so that there is some level playing field. We have proposed, on the one hand, that the account be paid by the European Union budget, on the other hand, that the Supreme Judicial Council build them a five-storey building of European prosecutors and that they can freely accommodate all this independent administration that we give them with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u300	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I would ask that if you didn't reconsider this proposal, you give it to me in writing exactly where to be and how to vote on it. How do we vote clearly, but where do we include it exactly? Are there any lines to that statement? For a line, Professor Mihailov? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u301	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u302	For procedure? Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not like to take part in this bill, as it specialises in fellow Members who are relevant to the jurisdiction, but because I see that fantastic proposals are already starting to appear in the Chamber. Why a five-storey, ten-storey building? And what else can be suggested, so we can walk until midnight. My procedural proposal is on the so-read paragraphs so far to end the debate and to move forward after a vote so that we can still get to some normal discussion. Otherwise, all sorts of things will be offered, which in practice change the whole nature of the bill, some have nothing to do with it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u304	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u305	Mr. President, I believe that when discussing paragraphs that affect the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, including, with which to carry out the activities of the prosecution even in its newly created unit, this issue should be subject to a very broad discussion, because obviously this bill creates some new powers of this unit of the European Prosecutor's Office, which, seeing the crimes it investigates, will need significant funds for some or other purposes, for some or other needs, without specifying what. And that is why, Mr President, I think it is important that we continue the discussion on these paragraphs, and there are also fellow Members who are scheduled to speak. I understand now that some colleagues are uncomfortable when discussing the activities of the prosecution, I fully understand these colleagues. They may also have some personal cases related to the withdrawal of immunity, I understand very clearly that they may find it unpleasant for the prosecution, but still for us as citizens and taxpayers, not only as MPs, the financing of these units, structures and administrations that are being created is extremely important. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we continue the discussions under paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6, if memory serves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u306	Yeah. I get it, but the procedural proposal's been made, we heard the arguments. I shall put to the vote the motion to end the discussion referred to in paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. Vote 141 MPs: 106, against 23, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I see that Mr. Balachev does not give up his desire, as we have adopted a practice signed up to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u307	Hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u308	I'm sorry, Mr. Svilensky, but I'm obliged to give the floor to Mr. Balachev, whom I ask to be maximum...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u309	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will take particular account of the texts discussed. First, as regards § 3. What is also proposed by the Commission, which is also proposed by other colleagues, does not actually take into account a very important fact. This fact is related to the powers of the Attorney General and the Prosecutor's Office in general in relation to art. 127, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution, where he exercises control of legality in respect of all acts of state authorities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This, by the way, is not isolated. In the regulation itself and in the very founding act establishing the European Prosecutor's Office it is explicitly stated that European prosecutors, respectively delegated prosecutors on the ground, cannot violate the laws of the State in which they carry out their activities. In this regard, let's assume that this text of art. 138 of the Judicial Law should not act in relation to European prosecutors, it is simply unconstitutional. It could be this text, i.e. t. 7 to remain, especially with regard to the actions of delegated prosecutors, respectively of the European prosecutors, to create a new point that the Prosecutor General or the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria controls the legality of the actions of these prosecutors and this would be much closer to the Constitution and to the laws of the country. With regard to § 4, I believe that there is no way for us to make a supervisor for reasons which I have just pointed out, because who can be a leader, in the first place such a figure according to art. 8 of the Directive, at regional level, such a function cannot exist and there is no such manager mentioned in the structure. We have no way of creating such a leader, much less, there are other texts, where I will determine salaries, appoint people, appoint contests, manage budgets, but even if it is primary, secondary and so on and so forth. So I believe that § 4 should completely be abolished, moreover that the budget of the judiciary cannot and there is no reason for it to commit and commit itself to the payment of any salaries in relation to the activities of the delegated prosecutors, even less to employees who will not be, because whatever employees are employed, they will be part of the structure, if any, part of the structure of the European Prosecutor's Office and not of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. If it is not Bulgarian, I do not see on what basis the Supreme Judicial Council will determine some budget, some state figures and so on. I would like to take account of § 6, where it is proposed to adopt regulations for the administration of European Delegated Prosecutors. Please, colleagues, those who will defend this thesis, or those who will vote, I will ask you to read between art. 28 and 32 of the directive, so that I do not have to do literary reading, where explicitly stated, only one passage will I read from art. 30, where it is said that: The monitoring European Prosecutor in accordance with internal rules of procedure, I would like to stress, the Rules of Procedure of the European Prosecutor's Office shall carry out the relevant actions and the control of delegated prosecutors shall not be carried out, but it shall not affect art. 19 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u310	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. We have a lot of votes, and I will start, of course, from those who are not supported by the Commission and then, if there is no special desire, I would suggest that we vote on the one-blocks supported by the Commission eventually. First, under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 24, against 115, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Now I must put to the vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs his editorial proposal in para. 2 at the end of the text the management will become the administrative guide. That is to say, instead of taking the lead of the Prosecutor General, he should become under the administrative authority of the Prosecutor General. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 22, against 109, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Petar Petrov and a group of MPs as tabled. They voted 137 MPs: 13 against 115, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs under § 3, not supported by the Commission. Vote 141 MPs: 13 against 115 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs under § 4, not supported by the Commission. They voted 141 MPs: 26, against 115, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Peter Petrov's editorial proposal. This is on page 6, if you're looking at the Bill. The proposal under § 4: In para. 2 after sentence 2 second to be added as SJC provides for the construction of a five-storey administrative building for accommodation of the newly created administration. I will put it to the vote because of his fundamental contribution to law. Vote 141 MPs: 14 against 116, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs under § 4 as it has also been tabled by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 12, against 117, abstentioned 11. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs under § 6, not supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 18, against 116, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. We've run out of unsupported proposals with this. And now, if there is no special wish, I propose that we vote on the following paragraphs: the name of the Import Act, § 1 by importer; § 2 by version of the Commission; § 3 by version of the Commission; paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 by version of the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 118 against 16, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. Now, I would suggest, colleagues, because, I think, most texts have a rather technical nature, to present Mr. Mateev to the end paragraphs and then open a discussion on them. Here you go, Mr. Mateev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 7" is canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 7. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7. .................................................... (1) Within one month of the entry into force of this law, on a proposal from the European Delegated Prosecutor under art. 139a, para. 1 The Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall designate positions for the judicial officers in the administration under art. Paragraph 136. 10, making appropriate changes to the Classifier of the posts in the administration of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Within the term under para. 1 on a proposal from the European Delegated Prosecutor under art. 139a, para. 1 The Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall determine the number of employees in the administration under art. Paragraph 136. 10. According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... The Council of Ministers provides the Supreme Judicial Council with a building to secure the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutors. According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Milen Mateev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Special Intelligence (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. A sentence 2 shall be created:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... the written reasoned request to the court shall be submitted by the European Prosecutor or by a European Delegated Prosecutor. (b) in para. 5 after the words "al." A sentence is added first. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the word the Prosecutor shall be placed comma and the Prosecutor of the European Union or the European Delegated Prosecutor shall be added. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 after the word the Prosecutor shall be placed comma and the European Prosecutor or the European Delegated Prosecutor shall be added. According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 7 after the word the prosecutors. The prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors are added; (b) in para. 3, p. 3 after the word the prosecutors. The prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutors are added. 2. In § 1, t. 3 of the additional provisions after the word "administratives" shall be added the administration under art. Paragraph 136. 10 of the Law on the Judicial Government. Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs: The following amendment shall be made in paragraph 11: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172, para.1, the newly created sentence third is amended as follows: In cases of jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office, the written reasoned request to the court shall be submitted by the European Prosecutor or by a European Delegated Prosecutor through the national prosecutor concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 12" is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 7. The European Delegated Prosecutor shall be responsible for the investigation of criminal offences of the jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office and the European Delegated Prosecutor appointed by the European Prosecutor's Office for the investigation of criminal offences of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. 139a, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. 2. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8..................................................... Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 13" is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Customs Act (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 10a is created para. 6: The European Delegated Prosecutor's Office of the European Prosecutor's Office for the Investigation of Crimes of the European Public Prosecutor's Office shall be governed by an agreement between the Minister of Finance and the European Delegated Prosecutor's Delegated Prosecutor's Delegated Prosecutor's Delegated Prosecutor's Office. 139a, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u312	Thank you, Mr. Mateev. I'm opening a debate on the name of the division and paragraphs 7 to 13. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u313	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! This bill does something very simple.. creates the opportunity for European delegated prosecutors to perform their functions independently, responsibly so that the European Union's financial interests are protected, protected and our interests as citizens. And here we have done the following: we have created an administrative structure to support the activities of the European Delegated Prosecutors, we have provided for this structure to be filled with judicial officials, and we have also given the opportunity to provide some of the activities of European Prosecutors with funds from the budget of the judiciary, and very importantly we have provided for independent legal proceedings and registration. However, the autonomy of an entity can be guaranteed by the texts that we are about to vote on, namely: the possibility for them to have an independent building to enjoy; the possibility to carry out real investigative functions with joint police investigative teams; and this only shows the dimensions of independence, the autonomy of the judicial authorities by a member of the European Prosecutor's Office. It is not enough to claim that one body has some subjective sense of independence. It is not simple enough in the Law to say that he is independent or autonomous. It is important to ensure the resources, administration, opportunities for real action that support and support its independence and autonomy. That is what the law does, and I hope today that this law will be passed by a significant majority. I am delighted here that, including my colleagues, there is such a people, who at first reading supported the Law, and today support it. It is important, when we stand behind principles, to stand up for them despite conjunctural changes in our political environment. So I hope that after a few votes we will have a final bill adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u314	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines? First Mr. Nestorov, then Mr. Balachev. For a line or a statement? [[Heckling]] Okay. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Although this statement was not on the discussed paragraphs, I will allow myself to ask Mr. Slavov a question: after much thought have we been able to find out who will be the European Prosecutor-General, what will be the mechanism for it to be and will it be the same one that will handle the registration, storage and recovery of special intelligence resources? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u316	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Petrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u317	Dear colleague Slavov, since I disagree with your speech, I would like to ask you a question to show you the absurdity of what you are trying to adopt as a bill to allow somehow to have a European Prosecutor's Office at the same time to be independent and not to be, figuratively speaking, attached to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and to exercise all the powers under law. I would like to ask you the following, if you can answer me: is there anywhere else in the Code of Criminal Procedure described by the agreement to carry out investigations as recorded in this bill in § 12 and § 13 that with an agreement between the Interior Minister and the Customs Agency respectively, these European prosecutors will be allowed to carry out an investigation? And that is why my question is: is there any such legal instrument with an agreement to allow an authority to carry out investigations? Because if you give me a positive answer, we will, of course, immediately make subsequent editorial amendments and submit relevant new bills to allow private entities to carry out investigations as well. Why not, if you can use the Code of Criminal Procedure and the mechanisms under it with an agreement? I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u318	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my colleague Nestorov. No, I don't know the name of the European Delegated Prosecutor who will be authorised, and to tell you the truth, I don't care what the name is. However, it is important that whoever is empowered to meet the criteria for high professionalism, for integrity, if we use the terms of our Constitution The name's not that important. And I believe that the European Prosecutor's Office, in the light of its leadership, will empower you, will authorize precisely such a professional to coordinate and lead the unit created in Bulgaria. I hope you don't worry so much that you don't know what the name is. For a working service, it is important how she does her job, not whether we have her supervisor's phone number. As for the replica of colleague Petrov, let us distinguish, colleague Petrov, penal law in the particular sense of the word, criminal trial, from public law, as is the Law on the Judiciary. It is also public, in a particular sense. Public law governs relations between bodies and institutions, does not regulate the process under which certain investigative measures are carried out. The point of these provisions, which you have quoted, is to arrange for European Delegated Prosecutors to work together, in joint investigative teams with investigative police officers and investigative customs inspectors. This is not a precedent for our legal system. There are other practices over the years. The Attorney General has repeatedly instructed him to set up joint surveillance units for an investigation. That is, our right knows this figure of institutional agreements, and that is, I say, an instrument of public law, and it is not in the strict sense of the word criminal procedural law, because they, the powers of the prosecutor to investigate, and of the European Delegated Prosecutor, are governed by the Criminal Procedure Code, they are also regulated in the European Regulation. So I see no contradiction between the text proposed in the Bill and the practice that exists anyway. Other European institutions also conclude joint investigations agreements, such as OLAF, there are such institutional agreements, so I see nothing extraordinary in these texts. On the contrary, they will facilitate the work of European delegated prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u320	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Minister Yordanova asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to answer the specific questions asked. The procedure for authorising a delegated European Prosecutor in the territory of the Member State concerned is very clearly described in the opinion of the European Prosecutor's Office under this bill, which is in the file of the Bill. There are very clearly cited both the legal bases and what this requires. I have the decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office of 24 February 2021 describing the mechanism for such authorisation. The idea is, in fact, the College of the European Prosecutor's Office to empower a European Delegated Prosecutor in the territory of the Member State concerned to replace the European Prosecutor from the Member State concerned when he is not in the territory of the Member State concerned, by further entrusting certain administrative and coordination functions, including coordinating the work of the administrative officers that the Member State has provided for the work of the European Prosecutor's Office, i.e. resources to provide the European Prosecutor's Office we are doing. Including all other national authorities. That means the investigating authorities. So I can give it to you. Accordingly, after that decision, there is a series of decisions empowering European delegated prosecutors for each Member State. With regard to the agreement with the competent authorities, the Ministry of Interior, the NRA, the Customs, colleagues, it is not about awarding investigative functions, it is about coordinating joint efforts or establishing joint investigative teams. This is an approach that the doctrine has recommended in the course of the debate on the respective Parliament. I can give you a chance to meet her. In fact, the doctrine recommends that, when building a national level, ensuring the work of the European Prosecutor's Office be perceived as a successful approach to interaction in relation to the activities of OLAF and then undertaken by the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, namely to conclude an agreement on the establishment of joint teams with the different specialized structures. So what this bill actually adopted are the recommendations of the doctrine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Mr. Balachev has the floor and then Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u323	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll allow myself, Mr. Chairman, a few words related to what Minister Yordanova just said. I dispute what she says, with the very clear reason that these are certain measures which are listed in the Code of Criminal Procedure and allow for cases where there is or should be sought, questioned and so on certain individuals to do so by such teams. There are also appointed by the court, has been appointed by the prosecution and so on and has nothing to do with the Law and the activities of the European Prosecutor's Office at all. So my apologies, Mrs. Yordanova, but what you said is something that is different and could not be used under this bill and at all in order to organise and regulate the activities of the European Prosecutor's Office. And another sentence before I went to § 8 when, at first reading, and today I started with this under the title of the Law, I told you one thing, and it is simply confirmed by the reaction of those who have the courage to speak in connection with this bill, mostly from.Yes, Bulgaria. Because obviously they are in closer relations with the Ministry of Justice and are the supporters of this proposal. I said that this prosecution is being set up to have a parallel prosecution in Bulgaria. And this confirmed to you today the esteemed Mr. Slavov, an associate professor of public law and not criminal law, and he said: "In order for this prosecution to be the way we want it to be, it must have a building, there must be employees, there must be a separate law firm.......... and so on and so forth. Colleagues, delegated prosecutors are six plus one. I'm asking you, what kind of building would you make to six people? What are we talking about? What endless business will you do for seven people? How are we going to change a bunch of laws so that we can Widis the fact that what these delegated prosecutors are doing is kept secret and kept separate from our prosecution? Let's talk. We don't give ourselves any idea what we're really doing! I'm sorry, but for seven people... Colleague Petrov made a joke about a five-storey building. Well, we should all move in there! These are six people plus one judge working on a contract, elected by the relevant College and they fulfil their duties as judge and prosecutors. By the way, I mean, when they're assigned, they do. What separate proceedings? See how the complaints are filed, the signals. They can be submitted at different locations.. can be lodged centrally in the Prosecutor General's Office, European, can also be submitted here. Who's gonna hide them, what have we got to hide? So this is the truth about this bill, directly with respect to § 8, I have affected the building of seven prosecutors who have jobs, we are talking about providing them with a building, I think it is not serious and you realize it. So I cannot support such a text, as well as my colleague Zarkov's proposal, although I cannot deny it, I do not know where it is, yes, that his are more reasonable, closer to the reasonable, than what was proposed by the Ministry of Justice. And one more thing. There's talk here that we already have authority. One month after this law comes into force, we are already starting to do these things. I'm sorry, but you don't have the original rightful fact, that's the fact of the mandate itself. The fact that Minister Yordanova wants someone to be authorized, who will organize and so on and so forth, is one thing, and what Laura Koveshi thinks is quite another. And will this month not even be on vacation in the Bahamas or somewhere else, and will it not be up to our law at all?! Even less empowering. Let's think, please! We're creating legal acts. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's my request. I have nothing personal, to every bill I approach with due respect. So I can't imagine that this thing could even lawyers, even less the Justice Department, suggest such a thing. In terms of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u324	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. I beg you very much to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u325	Yes, I'll jump, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u326	Shortly, to ask you to graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u327	With respect only to § 11, where an amendment and an addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure is requested. Honourable Members, in all regulations governing the activities of the European Prosecutor's Office, say that it respects our procedural laws. There's no way, there's nothing we can do about the extraterrestriality of our territory. The documents shall be filed through our court, the indictments shall be filed by the delegated prosecutor or by the signature of his superior directly in the court. There are rules, and they can't... It is explicitly written, honourable Members, in these regulations. So please, let us not do things, I say again, with which we will be very, very deeply ashamed! The same is the case with the SRS. The SRS is a special law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u328	No, Mr. Balachev, please, without the SRS, because six minutes and more you're talking. We're all tired. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u329	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. The SRS has a certain law. And when we discussed this issue, there's a special filing there, which is for everyone, there's a special way to protect the SRS, and there's no need to do things that have nothing to do with the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u330	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Minister Yordanova asked for the floor, but please really briefly, Mrs. Yordanova, because the time has come very far. Committees are waiting to sit down. Just try harder to walk.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u331	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Only by the facts. The Bulgarian European Delegated Prosecutors are nine. There is an opening, today the Prosecutor's College has launched a procedure to determine again, I hope this time successfully. In addition, Mrs. Koveshi has requested the appointment of six other European delegated prosecutors for Bulgaria, given their great workload. So let's say these are publicly known facts. On the fact that such a European delegated prosecutor for Bulgaria had yet to be authorised, this is not true. For Member States from 1 June last year, for each of them, there are already authorised such European delegated prosecutors. So it's on the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u332	Thank you for clarifying the facts. The word is Mr. Petrov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u333	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not intend to make a statement, but the statements of colleague Slavov and Minister Yordanova provoked me, because I heard in them quite frank untruths, I will say it directly. When importers have drawn up this bill in order to organise the activities of European delegated prosecutors, they have dealt with the easier part to establish a separate administration of theirs. However, the problem has come as to how these European prosecutors should carry out their activities and fulfil the desire of the importers of this bill to be absolutely outside and independent of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, prosecutors, whether they are European delegated or national, even though they have the explicit opportunity to carry out all investigative action in person, for this activity, for the investigation activity, they use investigative police officers, operational officials and staff of the Customs Agency depending on the crimes. Obviously, when they are asked to be given the opportunity to carry out their activities with the Bill, the problem has come. How will they use the PPC procedures, the investigative officers at the Ministry of Interior and, respectively, the staff of the Customs Agency, while there is no such procedural possibility? And therefore the importers of the bill reached § 12 and 13, where they recorded that they had noted it, called it an intervention between the investigating police officers, respectively between the investigating inspectors of the Customs Agency, on the one hand, and European delegated prosecutors, on the other hand, on the note, the activity of investigating crimes. That is, they are somehow trying to arrange for European delegated prosecutors to use the tools of the Ministry of Interior, respectively the Customs Agency, so that they can in some way carry out their activities. So far so good, only this cannot happen with an agreement and the Bulgarian criminal trial does not know such practices. I did not accidentally say in my reply that we, if there was such an opportunity, and you, if you enter it, we will immediately make legislative proposals with an agreement to carry out investigative activities and use of the employees of the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency and by individuals. Why not? What's in the way? If we are going to allow European delegated prosecutors, why not allow private institutions to also investigate, use the tools and personnel resources under the Criminal Procedure Code? And no, colleague Slavov, this is not part of public law, it is part of the criminal process of the Republic of Bulgaria. What you are trying to create with § 12 and § 13, namely in the form of an agreement to give European delegated prosecutors the opportunity in some way to work in Bulgaria, because otherwise there is no way for them to carry out their activities, according to your bill this is absolutely unacceptable. I ask you to support our two proposals to drop these paragraphs, because we will set a precedent that will subsequently bring extremely many problems to the investigation. We are not talking about any authority that Minister Yordanova mentioned here, we are talking about the award of investigative actions that you are trying to make and changes to the Ministry of Interior Act, respectively in the Customs Act, so that these European delegated prosecutors can somehow work and actually assign the actions to the investigation. I cannot agree with this that it is possible to do so in the form of an agreement. It is no accident that the lawmaker in the Criminal Procedure Code did not foresee such an opportunity for direct negotiation for the use of the Institute of the Ministry of Interior and the Institute of the Ministry of Customs..................................................................................... So I ask you very much to think carefully before you vote, because it is extremely likely that this bill will be subsequently attacked because it cannot work.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u334	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Balachev. Are there any other lines? Then I'll give you a procedure, just to run out of lines. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u335	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Colleague Petrov, I would like to ask you a few questions about your speech. Firstly, it did not become clear to me at least, what is the difference between prosecutors who are elected to the European Prosecutor's Office, delegated prosecutors who are in the Republic of Bulgaria, and who, if Minister Yordanova is right, is the authorised delegated prosecutor to become head of the other six people? If you can ask her, perhaps she will answer you if she knows, because everything else that is envisaged in these paragraphs is a future uncertain event, we lawyers say, that is, something that can happen, but most likely will not happen. The second thing. I didn't understand. You said there'd be some sort of arrangement with police officers in customs and the Ministry of Interior. I ask: if a case is, for example, factual and legal complexity and must go to the National Investigation Service, if it has to go to the National Investigation Service, for example, will there be no agreement with them? Otherwise, what do we do? Only Boyko Rashkov and I will make a deal, and the rest will remain unconceived. Although my opinion is categorical, the PPC says who is entitled to investigate, under what conditions, on what grounds, everything else is empty talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u336	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Balachev, regarding the first question I can tell you who will not be their boss, namely they will not have any relations under the bill with the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. In this way you will be answered, you are aware of where these European delegated prosecutors will be accountable, as well as the European prosecutors........................................................................................... Regarding your second question: how will investigations be conducted if they are to be carried out by the National Investigation Service, in more severe cases, respectively, DANS? If we follow the logic of this Bill, we will have to sign new agreements or possibly anexes. I'll go even further. If we get to this Parliament eventually to examine the Anti-Corruption Act, where a new figure is being created, the so-called investigative inspector, I have an assumption that very soon it will be necessary, as this figure will not be working.. and this will be discussed already when the time comes, it will very soon be necessary, Madam Minister, that we may also import a European investigative inspector, who will again, on the basis of an agreement, have to investigate corruption crimes when they affect the financial interests of the Union. Isn't that the condition for these European delegated prosecutors to be able to investigate? You can see how the Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Bulgaria and the possibilities for carrying out an investigation and mentioning explicitly to the institutions that could carry out such actions in the investigation are actually derogated. So again, I call on my fellow Members, please do not support § 12 and § 13, because not least I am afraid and my colleagues here are asking me that it is possible that this law may be declared unconstitutional in this part of it. There is no way you can give an agreement to another organization, institution, legal person, natural person to investigate the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u338	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. With that, I think we've run out of requests for speeches. We close the discussion and move on to the vote. I'm just waiting for the coworkers to get together, explain what we're voting on. We have four votes on proposals not supported by the Commission, and then I think we should vote on the rest that are supported. I mean, most of them have a purely technical nature. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs under § 7, not supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 15 against 111, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs under § 11, not supported by the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: 13 against 103, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of MP Petar Petrov and a group of MPs under § 12, not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 21, against 109, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The last unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Petar Petrov and a group of MPs under § 13. Vote 137 MPs: 24, against 111, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I now put the following texts to the vote: the name of the importing division; paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 in the version of the Commission; § 11 by importer, § 12 and § 13 in the version of the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 114, against 25, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That's what we're running out of this point. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova. Excuse me for a second, Madam Secretary. Let's run out of negative voting procedures first. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u339	I suppose the Minister wants to thank the MPs now. I would like to say that I voted against to preserve the honor of my profession. We have seen enough, colleagues, in this term of perversions with the right and thank God that this National Assembly is ending to end and the agony in which our profession is located, I say again. Because, unfortunately, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we are disbanded, we will not have time to submit a request to the Constitutional Court to declare the unconstitutionality of the newly adopted bill, which the minister will now be happy about. I hope, however, that some of the other authorized authorities will do so in order to show these people that they do not understand the right and it is good that they no longer deal with this matter. They must be shown the power of law, as the Constitutional Court has shown them so far, their courts have shown it, and you will see it in this case as well. I'm truly sorry for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u340	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any other procedures for a negative vote? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u341	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I really take this opportunity to thank for the wisdom of the majority of Members of the National Assembly, who supported a large, but very important bill with which Bulgaria, as a Member State with dignity, fulfils its obligation to provide adequate resources so that the European Prosecutor's Office, the European Delegated Prosecutors can actually carry out their functions independently, and not have to pray for expertise or other procedural action to be secured by the Administrative Director of a Prosecutor's Office. The Bulgarian people expect justice. The Bulgarian people want the abuse of EU funds to be investigated and, accordingly, the guilty brought to justice. With this bill, you have made this possible. And yes, you have resisted all attempts to strengthen or establish the power of the Prosecutor General and European Delegated Prosecutors, something which, of course, the European regulation prohibits. In this way, you have prevented any political or other backstage authority from being used on the work of these European delegated prosecutors so that we do not have in the future today's shameful situation. In today's last working day, the Special Prosecutor's Office made the biggest gift to several people: Delyan Peevski, Ilko Zhelyazkov, refusing to investigate them, which showed that the arguments of this National Assembly to close these structures because they were used politically were quite adequate. Mr. Cholakov, I have no concern from the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u342	You should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u343	For every text that I and the Ministry of Justice have worked for, we have stood by the text of the Constitutional Court. There are four solutions in a row in this direction. So I really thank the majority again for supporting this bill. Thank you. [[(Applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. And we move on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS IN HUMAN MEDICIA Mr. Tonev for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u345	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 43, para. 2, Izr. First of all, from the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the plenary, assoc.Professor Dr. Lyubomir Bakalivanov, Deputy Minister of Health, and Professor Dr. Petko Salchev, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u346	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Please vote for admission procedure. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal has been accepted. The tolerance has been granted. Please invite the guests. And you, I assume, will continue with the report, Mr. Tonev? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe by the Committee on Health for the First Voting on a Draft Draft Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 47-254-01-106, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev, Georgi Georgiev Mihailov, Ivaylo Hristov Hristov and Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev on July 20, 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 26 July 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 47-254-01-106, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev, Georgi Georgiev Mihaylov, Ivaylo Hristov Hristov and Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev on 20 July 2022. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Associate Professor Lyubomir Bakalivanov, Deputy Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, Dr. Yordanka Penkova, representatives of the administration of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and of patient and non-governmental organizations. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the draft law on substance, carried out an examination and found that it complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Sub-NS. In the Committee on Health on the grounds of art. 31, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 73, para. 7 of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the National Patient Organization, the Association for the Development of Bulgarian Health, the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, the Association of Children with Oncohematological Diseases and the National Network for Children. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria have received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the National Health Insurance Fund and from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft and the reasons for the bill were presented by associate professor Anton Tonev, who informed the MPs that in 2020 a number of changes were adopted in the Law on medicinal products in human medicine which govern certain public relations in the field of drug policy. With the provision of art. The use of medicinal products outside of the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation is regulated under the terms of the Marketing Authorisation. The so-called off label use is intended to be used only exceptionally, in the absence of an alternative for a particular patient and only in the interests of his or her health and under the supervision of a doctor who will bear all the responsibility for this. This creates a legal opportunity to achieve more effective treatment in cases where no other alternatives are available for patients. In para. 7 of the provision cited above explicitly provides that a medicinal product applied outside the condition of the marketing authorisation is not to be paid by public funds. The proposed bill is in response to the need to overcome that prohibition of payment by public means of medicinal products applied outside the condition of the marketing authorisation due to numerous complaints and alerts received from patients and their organisations, detailing the benefits of the use of these medicinal products in a variety of diseases in persons up to the age of 18 years. It should be borne in mind that these medicinal products are of high value, resulting in extremely difficult access by patients to them precisely for financial reasons. In this context, an exception is proposed to be created in art. 266b, para. 7 of the GLPH only for medicinal products paid outside the scope of compulsory health insurance and applied outside the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation for the treatment of diseases in persons up to the age of 18. It is envisaged that the cases in which these medicinal products will be paid by public funds will be defined in the regulation under art. 82, para. 6 of the Health Act. Prof. Tonev pointed out that the bill aims to extend the treatment opportunities for patients to 18 years of age by providing a public resource for payment of medicinal products that are applied outside the condition of the Marketing Authorisation and which are the only option for improving the health of these patients. He added that according to NHIF data, applications for financing of medicinal products administered outside the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation are mainly for the treatment of children with onco-hematological diseases, as well as for rare diseases and autoimmune diseases where treatment options have been exhausted or severe adverse reactions have been observed or contraindications have been established for the treatment with available therapeutic alternatives. The expected result of the implementation of the new regulation is increasing access to drug therapy in patients up to the age of 18 years, improving their health status and their conditions and quality of life. In order to achieve the objectives of the Bill, funds from the state budget will be spent, which are set out in the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. The payment of the activities subject to regulations with the proposed regulatory changes will be carried out by the NHIF, with the expenditure financed by transfers from the state budget provided through the budget of the Ministry of Health. On the basis of art. 73, para. A public discussion was held at the meeting with the participation of representatives of non-governmental organizations who have provided written opinions on the bill. The Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the National Patient Organization, the Association for the Development of Bulgarian Healthcare, the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, the Children's Association with Oncohematological Diseases and the National Network for Children support the Law as it fully meets the factual situation and needs of individuals up to 18 years of age from timely and adequate treatment. All organisations agree that the proposed regulatory changes must be adopted as soon as possible. The Ministry of Health, the National Health Insurance Fund and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria support and coordinate the bill without any comments. The opinions state that the proposal to create an exception in art. 266, para. 7 of the GLPH only for medicinal products paid outside the scope of compulsory health insurance and applied outside the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation for Treatment in persons up to 18 years of age meets the needs of patients. Thus, treatment options for patients up to the age of 18 are extended, which are mainly with onco-hematological diseases, as well as those with rare and autoimmune diseases where therapeutic options are exhausted or severe drug reactions are observed in treatment with available therapeutic alternatives. The proposed proposal is timely and appropriate, with the application of the new regulation increasing access to drug therapy in patients up to the age of 18 years and leading to improvement of their health status and their conditions and quality of life. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that the regulatory change at issue is primarily a matter of legislative appropriateness, and in the discussion of the proposal the opinion of the Minister of Health as a body that implements and regulates drug policy, part of the state policy in the Republic of Bulgaria should be the opinion of the Minister of Health. It is noted that ensuring that persons are able to enjoy rights arising from legislative change should be implemented within the framework of the approved funds for the relevant year under the budget of the Ministry of Health. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health agreed that the provision and guarantee of treatment of persons up to 18 years of age with medicinal products under art. 266b, para. 1 of the GLPH is extremely necessary and regulatory changes should therefore be adopted within a possible short period of time. A question has been raised regarding the scope of the groups of diseases for which a regulatory exception is made and whether all the necessary medicinal products will fall within the scope of the proposed legislative framework. In response to the question, the governor of NHIF Dr. Yordanka Penkova explained that with the proposed addition of art. 266b, para. All groups of diseases and the relevant medicinal products that apply outside the conditions of the Marketing Authorisation for the treatment of persons up to the age of 18 years are covered by the GLP. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, No 47-254-01-106, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev, Georgiev Mihailov, Ivaylo Hristov Hristov and Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev on 20 July 2022. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u348	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, will there be an opinion on an importer? Here you are, Associate Professor Tonev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u349	Honourable Members, as has been clarified in the reasons, it is about a technical change which will enable them to be treated with public funds with seriously ill children who have not been able to take part in clinical trials and the results of these tests to fall into the so-called Summary. For a long time this thing could have happened in an additional way, but we want to correct a failure in the Law, for which I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u350	And thank you, Professor Tonev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Professor Angelov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u351	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable importers, dear Associate Professor Tonev! Our parliamentary group will support this bill. I just wanted to say a few things about import technology. Since many times from this tribune, both you and other representatives of the ruling coalition in the face of Dr. Simidchiev, quite well-meaningly I say you are looking for a non-party consensus. You're talking about medicine, you're talking about no political talk, I quote by memory. This bill, we also spoke with Dr. Ademov on this topic today, could at least look for the people from the other parliamentary groups, who are from the opposition, because it concerns the solution of a problem of the Bulgarian children. That's what I'm saying as a counterpoint to what you're saying. This means that you are not looking for a non-party consensus that you are not looking to solve a problem, but just want to sharpen your lapel one solution, to say: here, Change suggested this solution. No, we will support this decision because it is indeed a technical mistake, but then when you say that you want there to be no political talk, to have a non-partisan consensus, we may very well speak to each other and our signatures stand under this decision. I'm saying it again because there's really nothing political about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u352	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Hey, guys, any lines? Dr. Simidchiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u353	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Professor Angelov, thank you very much for your speech. I just want to make a reference to a bill, a Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, which I have personally searched for at least four times your group, as well as the DPS group. You couldn't find time to sit down, talk and sign all over it. After all, we only had to let go of who we were. Yes, for this project you are absolutely right, there should be an interparty consensus, but there should be one for the other. We've been searching for a long time, and we didn't make it. Because this project really needs to be quick and be able to end it in this Parliament, that's why it happened. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u354	Thank you, Dr. Simidchiev. Colleagues, please, not from the hall, from the spot! Docent Tonev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u355	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, I fully join your words that exactly what you have explained is the action of the non-party support, so we must take this as our omission, which we could make up for in future times. It is only in our defense that we, as a newly formed party group, a parliamentary group entering the National Assembly, have been shown in our plenary a number of examples of parliamentaryism, parliamentary behaviour, parliamentary communication and perhaps we have simply followed some of them. Of course, that's not a complete apology. I accept your argument and give you an opportunity in the back to supplement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u356	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Angelov, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u357	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Associate Professor Tonev, I understand what you are saying, but in my mind it remains that you have entered here to change this practice, and in fact you are following it, so let us in the next Assembly, God forbid, that your group is just as numerous as it is now, that you have the opportunity to actually make this change that you promised. With regard to Dr. Simidchiev. Dr. Simidchiev, your bill on the establishment of medical advice was reviewed by our health experts and by our medical experts who are related to medical law. There are many criticisms that are related to the manner of spelling all those rules that you have signed as functions of this council, which should be written in a sub-legal legal act, and not in the way that you have created it. This was the problem so that he would not receive support with our signatures, not that we are opposed to the philosophy of creating this medical advice. It was simply necessary to correct this text so that it would be worthy to become a Law amending the Health Act in order to receive our support. You didn't understand what we probably meant. So today we will support this bill to be seen simultaneously and at second reading in order to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u358	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Any other speeches? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, colleagues! Our parliamentary group will also support this bill because, clearly and from the presentation of this bill, it is consensus. Another point is that if we want to look for problems in this bill, we can also find them in the interest of correctness, as it is said:. First of all, this problem exists not now. It could have been resolved under the budgetary procedure and then would have been the most correct solution, because at the moment, if you ask the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, he will tell you that there is no public funds for this expenditure by the end of the year. Isn't that right, Mr. Salchev? Of course it is. On the other hand, what has been said so far is seeking consensus and another problem. These children, when they turn 18, will have the same problem, will be faced with the same situation. This question will only apply to children in 18 years of age, and at 18 years of age and one month will again have this problem. I understand border syndrome what it is, but anyway, if we want to solve this problem, we need to look at things a little more general. I do not want to divert attention in any way in a negative direction in this bill, because it is extremely consensual, has been supported in the Health Commission, I hope that from now on we will be looking for solutions that are a little more complex and are financially linked, because this proposal has virtually no financial estimates.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u360	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Any other speeches? Professor Mikhailov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of speaking on this technical bill which settles a gap in the Law, but because here, at the end of this Parliament, many talk about a non-party consensus has erupted, I would like to remind those who speak of the fact that in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, which had a four-year life, a full parliamentary life, so much white has been carried out, including in the Law on Medicine. Those who were not in the hall then do not remember that we then raised the question that Dr. Ademov put that for a mother of a child who is 17 years and 9 months old and 18 years and 1 day, or 10 months old, it does not matter what the Law decides when its child dies. We have also put a lot of other questions and talked about the above-party consensus, so now, at the end of this Parliament, we need to set up a sub-party consensus, of course, that there is a need for such a consensus in health care, but it requires long-term contacts from all sides, not just pomposity in speeches, but putting a rod in the wheels when it comes to legislation, and therefore let us not continue with these empty talk, but to vote on the bill at first and second reading, let us do the work. By the way, this mistake is laid down in the Law on Medicinal Products exactly in the Forty-fourth National Assembly and just by GERB, and then we had a very difficult discussion, a very difficult discussion, but no one then heard our arguments, now we will talk about a non-partisan consensus. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u362	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines, colleagues? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine with importers Anton Tonev, Georgi Mihailov, Ivaylo Hristov and Alexander Simidchiev, submitted on 20 July 2022. They voted 152 MPs: for 152, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. Docent Tonev, for procedure please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u363	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister and Mr. Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill adopted in the first vote should be examined and put to a second vote in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u364	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I can't see. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. Vote 172 MPs: for 172, against and abstention there is no. That's how the offer is accepted. Mr. Tonev, please read the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! LAW supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 266b, para. 7 shall be added at the end, except for the cases referred to in Article 7. 82, para. 3 of the Health Act laid down in the regulation under art. 82, para. 6 of the Health Act. Final provision § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u366	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I'm opening a discussion. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the bill, § 1, the name of the division, as well as § 2 as were read by Associate Professor Tonev and by importer. Please, voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: for 173, against and abstention there is no. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Colleagues, we continue with item four of the Programme: BLOCK-BLOCK (BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCK-BLOCKS) Who's gonna present us with the draft report? Mr. Zafirov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u367	(J.I.S.P.I.T.P.I.T.V.) Report on the Law on the ratification of an international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to the Letter of Offering and Admission (LOA) BU-D-SAB (LOA) F-16 Block 70 and related maintenance (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA (LOA) BO-D-SAB (LoA) 2D-SAB (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated maintenance), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA (Boe supplies in support of F-16 (Swinder AIM 9H Block II Missions in support of the F-16), international contract (LOA) BU-P-AAD (Sidewinder AIM 9X block, related materials and services (Swinder AIM 9H Block II Misiles, as required material and services) and international contract (LOA) (LOA) and international agreement (Sidewinder AIM) Proposal from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Blagovest Belev, Atanas Slavov, Viktor Nasser, Alexander Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law:.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Blagovest Belev, Atanas Slavov, Viktor Nasser, Alexander Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. Ratification of the international agreement on Amendment and Supplement No 1 to Letter with offer and acceptance of the offer (LOA) BU-D-SAB Under art. 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Blagovest Belev, Atanas Slavov, Viktor Nasser, Alexander Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Treaty of Art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal 'Concluding provisions'. Proposal from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Blagovest Belev, Atanas Slavov, Viktor Nasser, Alexander Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: ................................................................................... In the Law for the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB, aircraft F-16 Block 70 and related support (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), international contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA 60 from 2019) art. is created. 6: ............................................... The Minister of Defence may, without ratification by the National Assembly, conclude contracts for amendments and additions to the international treaties under art. 1 - 4 - provided that the financial parameters of the above-mentioned contracts do not change. According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Blagovest Belev, Atanas Slavov, Viktor Nasser, Alexander Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected. According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Blagovest Belev, Atanas Slavov, Viktor Nasser, Alexander Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become the sole paragraph: I'm the only one. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u368	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. I am opening a discussion on the presented texts of the Bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u369	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u370	Here's your speech, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u371	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our National Assembly deals each month with ratification of the four contracts for acquisition of the F-16s. This is due to the reason that the contracts were concluded in a strange way and the very truth is that perhaps at the very beginning of the work of the National Assembly we should have done some repair of these contracts. For this purpose, however, it had to be acknowledged that they were vicious, they were wrongly concluded and were weakly relevant to the effectiveness of the Bulgarian army and Bulgarian aviation. Minister Karakachanov or perhaps Prime Minister Boyko Borisov should have been held responsible, and it should be known who proposed and who signed and so on. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Our National Assembly has many times dealt with matter that is complex and is far from the attention of many of the MPs, which is quite normal. In the proposal submitted by the Council of Ministers, an attempt was made to revoke the rights of the National Assembly and to delegate them to the Council of Ministers, that is to say to the Minister of Defence, who should from now on decide on his own the amendments to the Treaty when they do not refer to the price of the Treaty. This is absolutely incorrect because it would mean that the Minister of Defence himself would assess on the basis of some subjective assessment of whether these planes should come in complete assembly, whether to come in full time and in general the implementation of the Treaty was put at risk of its purely subjective assessment. This thing was corrected between first and second readings thanks to the amendments tabled by colleagues from almost all parliamentary groups jointly, so it is a really good option to drop this idea of the Council of Ministers as it was interpreted as absolutely unconstitutional. The point is that we will also let the next National Assembly deal with ratifications of this treaty, of additions to it, because one of the big mistakes was that we bought a cat in a bag, we bought a plane that didn't exist, which was only on blueprints, was on a project, and of course it turned out in the work process that there was a difference between what we ordered and what could be produced. So in the next National Assembly, the issue of airplanes, the maintenance contracts and so on, the four contracts will stand on the agenda. It is good to draw the conclusions from these treaties because we see that this Council of Ministers in resignation for a little while, just for a few days, has failed to offer us another treaty for eight more F-16s, which in the same way would have been concluded, quickly and without due consideration and without the necessary care for the Bulgarian Air Force and the Bulgarian army. So we have to think about what we're still going to do. ARGUMENT will abstain as a whole and will support the Commission's proposal and the proposal of the MPs from the other parliamentary groups in the Transitional and Final Provisions to drop the idea of the proposer of this bill, the idea of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Defence alone to decide on how to implement this important treaty. And I really hope that in the next National Assembly, when the following treaties are concluded, we will really think extremely professionally, extremely pragmatically, we will not become hostages to some misunderstood Euro-Atlantic solidarity or pro-Atlantic solidarity. On the contrary, what is white, we will call it white, which is black, we will call it black, because indeed, if, at the very beginning of this National Assembly, we had taken up arguments, purely pragmatic and purely technical to correct some discrepancies, it would now be very easy work and we would not have to deal with matter that is far from much of the people's representatives in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-27.u372	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Am I to understand that you want to vote separately § 1 for dropping out so that you can express your vote there? Is that right? Where the Secretary of Defense is concerned? [[Heckling]] Yes, in the Transitional and Final Rules, where we should vote on this text separately, because I was thinking of putting the other one to the vote together. I'll explain later in the vote. I think I understand what you're saying. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the discussion. We move on to a vote by suggesting that we do so, I will put it to a vote, I think we should make two votes, three we will make them three so that we can be as correct as possible to Mr. Drenchev and the Revival. I shall first put the name of the bill to the vote in the version of the Commission, art. Art. 1, art. 2 and the name of the division in the version of the Commission. They voted 178 MPs: 164, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 1 of the Final Provisions. That is, which supports the removal of § 1, voted for. The Commission proposes to reject the text, right, Mr. Zafirov? In other words, the Commission proposes that the Minister cannot change the texts without ratification. Vote 178 MPs: 174, against 3, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, so the paragraph is off. I shall put to the vote the final proposal of the Commission § 2 to become the only paragraph in the version of the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: 164 against 14, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] We're overreacting. Vote 186 MPs: 163, against 22, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That's what we're running out of agenda for today. The next session is tomorrow, Thursday, 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
