ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Please register! 166 MPs registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The programme for today includes parliamentary control in accordance with art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly from 9.00 until 11.00, then Draft decision to take action in relation to the identified danger of becoming inaccessible to the Road Infrastructure Agency.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No. 104, para. 3 of the MNS, and parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Let's start with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. This is Mr. Sandov, please let the other members of the Council of Ministers enter the Chamber. [[Noise and cheering.]] Maybe for a procedure, Mr. Shishkov, we'll fill in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, welcome! In order to fill the time waiting for the ministers, I would like to do a procedure in the manner of conducting which is related to the Law on Environmental Protection. Dear Mr President, please pay attention to the entry system, depositing proposals between first and second votes. You know, three months ago, we started looking at the Environmental Protection Act. Then the respected Deputy Prime Minister Sandov insisted that this law should be passed for three days, but since colleagues failed to agree in the coalition, they extended it twice to 23 February 2022. Yesterday during the Commission debate, I was surprised to learn and found that on 9 March 2022 a proposal was tabled between the first and second votes, which is beyond any deadlines. I remember during the Forty-fourth National Assembly in 15 minutes late I was unable to introduce a bill between first and second votes because the system was locked. Please, Mr. Chairman, check who and for what reasons has unlocked the system and allowed a proposal to be entered outside the deadlines with an official entry number attached to the documents of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. I am sure that also when examining the changes, the date of entry is taken into account. Mrs. Angelkova, procedure? I spoke to Mr. Subev and in today I have the assurance that we will have the answers to all five questions that are delayed. It's not just yours. [[Reply from the MP Nikolina Angelkova, away from the microphones.]] No product placement, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers! Mr. Chairman, I address you in the manner of conduct, because all of us MPs have sworn to protect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, right? Mr. Chairman, you have come to power with loud requests for zero tolerance of corruption, and what we read in yesterday's leading media that the Chairman of the Tourism Commission Mr. Ilin Dimitrov, who is from.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u5	Mrs. Angelkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u6	...has violated the Anti-Corruption Act and seized illegally acquired property. You know that according to art. 35...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u7	Mrs. Angelkova, please! This isn't procedure anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u8	...of the Law...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u9	Mrs. Angelkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u10	...every Member of the National Assembly is obliged to file a declaration by...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u11	Mrs. Angelkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u12	...declared within one month...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u13	Contact the KKCONPI, not the President of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u14	...if there are conditions for incompatibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u15	I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u16	... Yesterday, after I checked the Trade Register, which is public...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u17	Mrs. Angelkova, please! Got it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u18	...found that Mr. Ilin Dimitrov is still representing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u19	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Angelkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u20	...of the Varna Tourist Chamber. Here's your current condition. [[Predates.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u21	Thank you very much. I don't need it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u22	Because I don't think... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u23	Mrs. Angelkova! Colleagues, please! After all, you can't do that. There's really a procedure... Please, Mrs. Angelkova! Even if it's true or not, I can't deal with it right now, of course. That's not the order. [[(Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev: Mr. Hamid offers to punish her!]] There are others, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Good morning, Prime Minister. Welcome to your employer. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u25	Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u26	Did you sleep well? Are you calm? Mr. Chairman, we are concerned about the Prime Minister's mental state. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u27	That's why I'm saying this because you didn't say good morning to me, but only to the Prime Minister, so I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u28	He's our prime minister. We've all been making him nervous lately, so I'm asking if he's calm about control. Now to you, Mr. Chairman. [[Laughter]] Last week, you diverted our question on the grounds that it did not respond to the government's common policy. I ask you: are you familiar with the general policy of the government because we believe that the question answers and is directly related to the general policy of the government, and will you take steps to get the matter to the Prime Minister? I won't go into details. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. It's diverted, yes. I suggest that you submit an objection in the order of art. 103. We'll look into it. We'll start with the blitz-control issues. Is there a question on the part of us continuing the Change? I won't. GERB-SDS? Desislava Trifonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister, with your English, you should have read the articles in the Financial Times and the Reuters on Gemcorp, and in this regard I would like to ask you the following question: which one did you sign a memorandum with? With Gemcorp Capital Management, which initially leaked information from the Ministry of Energy, or Gemcorp Holdings Limited, as the company itself claims, i.e. with the Russian Gemcorp Capital Management, or with the offshore Gemcorp Holdings? Because the second company that claims to have signed a memorandum with you is an offshore company registered in Jersey, and documents from the Jersey offshore company show that it's connected to the Cayman offshore company and a company in Geneva. So I'm going to ask you to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To appease the opposition, what we signed is just a letter of intent for investments in Bulgaria... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] There is no binding effect in any way. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Wait a minute! When we signed this letter of intent on their part, we checked if they had Russian investors at that time. At this point, they don't have Russian investors. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] In addition, I have now ordered a full check to see what investors had back five years so that we can decide whether to step forward. I can assure you that we will not sign any contract that will be specific if we have even the slightest doubts. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS, applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u33	First Dessislava Trifonova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u34	It's too bad, Prime Minister, not knowing who you signed a memorandum with. It was announced as a memorandum. Is it a last memo, or is it a letter of intent? The two things are very different. Besides, I don't know who exactly you gave a check-up to... [[The Prime Minister is having a conversation with Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev.]] Excuse me, are we in touch? Maybe... Yes, thank you. Who exactly did you give the check to because it wasn't clear, and for what exactly? And how exactly do you check the financial assets or respectively the transactions of an offshore company? How does this thing happen and what service is checking it out? In this regard, because no one is above the law, except you, of course, would you issue a check to the State Agency "National Security" to see if Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev received funds in his offshore account from a person associated with Gemcorp? [[Applause and cheering: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u35	Mrs. Trifonova, this isn't about you. No charges from the parliamentary tribune, please! Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u36	The answer to this question is very easy. No! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u37	For procedure.. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u38	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers! Mr. President, we were pleased to note that today the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister are present, as this has not happened, as the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure have required in the past week, but... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u39	Wait, guys, just a second!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u40	...it is right, Mr. Chairman, to inform the Prime Minister that his presence here is not just for colour, or for colleagues to be able to ask him about his mental state, but to answer the parliamentary questions put by the Parliamentary Tribune by the MPs. With regard to the question asked by our parliamentary group, there was not a single answer. First of all, it wasn't clear what the government had signed. According to Kiril Petkov, the whole room and the media heard it, according to everyone else, including the corporation with which this simple letter was signed, this is a memorandum. According to Asen Vassilev, this memorandum, which is already a simple letter, was signed because the US government and embassy took the corporation in question to the Council of Ministers, according to the US Embassy this is not the case. It's a misunderstanding. In the language of diplomacy, everyone knows what this means. The US Embassy said the Deputy Prime Minister was lying. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u41	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova. And no such qualifications, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u42	Last one, Mr. Chairman. It didn't come out from the answer to which the corporation was. [[speaking indistinctly]] whether it was assigned to one of the security services for inspection...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u43	We get it, Mrs. Atanasova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u44	...of these corporations? Because, colleagues, here are two answers to two of the security services:...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u45	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u46	... The Prime Minister did not issue such an inspection. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u47	Now, in my two minutes of response to the procedure, I will only say the following to defend myself, and not for another: first of all, yes, I call on those responsible to be as specific as possible, as far as possible, of course. However, this is a blitz-control.. does not require detailed digital data, but as much as can be specified in order to perform the function of blitz-control. That's one. Secondly, regarding the fact that the members of the Council of Ministers were absent from the blitzcontrol last week, mainly Cyril Petkov, as this is mostly aimed at him. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly, the last one broadcasted a regular cabinet, you know that blitzcontrol was not cancelled by the Rules. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the Forty-third National Assembly I consulted, 20 blitzcontrols for the whole life of the National Assembly took place. [[Noise and lines.]] The Prime Minister was present at nine and has been absent since eleven. [[Noise and lines.]] How many times did this procedure take place, i.e. the missing persons were called to the next meeting? Not one time! This is the first time in the history of the National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The next question is from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Atanasova, what you said was a small factual inaccuracies that you mentioned earlier about differences of words and documents. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is to you: the basis of the government's common policy is the fight against corruption, oligarchy and backstage, right? In this regard, we had asked you, and with Mr. Minchev, we will deal with him in the other part of the meeting, in an interview with "Observer" published on 20 March this year, using a concept such as oligarch and media tycoon. What do these concepts mean to you? What evidence do you have to claim that Mr. Peevsky is in line with your orders? Why don't you point out others, for example, you know very well that for a huge part of society, and for some Western media, not Mr Peevski, but Ivo Prokopiev is the real oligarch, media magnate and monopoly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u49	Mr. Karadaye, please! At least we don't blame ourselves here in the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u50	I have one more question. Mr. Minchev, I'm sorry, but don't interrupt me, please! I ask myself questions in the procedure. You know very well that for a huge part of society and for Western publications I will extend my time to you to read them, I am saying that there is no factual inaccuracies in this, as they say in these media, and for a huge part of the society, including us, and for a huge part here in this Chamber. My second question is: in the same interview, Mr. Prime Minister, you claim that Mr. Peevski backstage controlled Borisov as Prime Minister. However, people know very well and say that you are a puppet of Ivo Prokopiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u51	Please, no offense, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u52	Mr. Minchev. My question is: are you looking for a patron in your image and likeness of Mr. Borisov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u53	Mr. Karadayi, this is also not a matter of government's common policy. [[Noise and lines.]] No matter what the contents are, but now... Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u54	Dear Members of Parliament, I stand before you and wonder, what is the point of this institution when such questions are asked? [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] Here the question is to inform ourselves about the policy of the government, the question is to think about strategies and about Bulgaria or to use insulting words to the Bulgarian institutions? One thing I want to assure you of. In my opinion, the difference between you and me is that I am completely independent. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u55	Again, no insults and qualifications to each other, please! For a line, Mr. Karadaye? Here you go. Then for procedure, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, in my line is the question: who are you independent of? Otherwise, my assessment is that it has become practically the whirlwind of this power to lie to angro in the situation in which there is a very complex situation. [[Noise and lines.]] If the notion of lying doesn't suit you, you can use the other terminology. The first April factual innuendo, but not every day is 1 April, honourable Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u57	Mr. Karadaye, please, let's keep a good tone! By the way, it refers to everyone, not only Mr. Karadayi, and within Mr. Petkov's response also, and within the framework of the blitzcontrol, to really inform ourselves of the current policy. Here you are, Mr. Cholakov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u58	Mr. Chairman, Kiril Petkov just said the words: "What is the point of this institution?" [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, please ask or invite Kiril Petkov to apologize immediately to the National Assembly. [[noise and lines]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. That's true, but the whole quote was: If such questions are to be asked, let's be exact. [[Noise and lines.]] I get it. The meaning of this institution is the highest possible. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev for procedure. That's right, Lord Cholakov. [[Noise and lines.]] I say: the meaning of this institution is the highest possible and no one can question it, including the prime minister. [[Reply from the National Representative Radomir Cholakov.]] We get your idea. Come in, Mr. Tsonev. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make sure I'm really good at it. For the purpose of this institution, I expected you to answer, because you are in charge of the institution at the moment, and you are in charge of it not bad. [[speaking indistinctly]] I expected you to answer because the meaning of these questions is too deep and too real. In order to argue my thesis in this procedure to you, I will give you an example: in the early 1990s, when a handful of enthusiasts were doing the SDS, our American friends had sent us instructors from the Republican Institute to train us wasn't from the Democratic Institute, but from the Republican, and maybe that's why we're little from old school politicians, but that's what happened then. So we asked them a question because people couldn't understand the mimicry between BCP and BSP, and how do we explain it to them? One of these high-ranking American instructors, he was a politician and then he was a senator, said to me the following: look, dear friends, in Washington, there's a political joke in Capitol, and I'll tell you this: if one thing goes like a duck, if it's yellow like a duck, if it's like a duck, if it's like a duck, it's a duck. [[Applause from DPS.]] Mr. Prime Minister, if you repeat the pillars of the oligarch Prokopiev, if you appoint the people of the oligarch Prokopiev, if you strive for all his projects to be put here and there. That's it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u61	We get it. Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Manoil Manev also wanted a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Manev. Then a question from the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The schizophrenia in our National Assembly has reached its peaks a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u63	Mr. Manev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u64	No, don't ask me, because I'm addressing you personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u65	To all Members of the National Assembly, I address you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u66	You must decide whether you are Mr. Kiril Petkov's lawyer or the President of the National Assembly?! By determining exactly who you are, then you will call every speech of MPs from this tribune, which you do not like. One. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, after your intervention under the procedure of my colleague Cholakov, I also hope that all other MPs in this National Assembly hold your apology as well. Because when a Prime Minister or someone else said that he did not see the meaning in the institution of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly defending him as Matrosov of the Ambrazor, this does not seem normal to me at least. Colleagues, I don't know how you're taking this. That's your business, but I'm already holding an apology from the President of the National Assembly. I'm sorry that I had to come out here today and say things like that, provided we have such important things to decide at the end of the day. [[Relations from.. Continue Change..........................................]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u67	Thank you, Mr. Manev. I think I said that the meaning of this institution is the highest possible. If someone didn't understand me and I offended someone, I apologize. I mean it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The next question is from BSP for Bulgaria. Any questions? I can't see. There is such a people? Tosko Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies of the Council of Ministers! My question is this: I am interested because the general policies of the government include the attitude towards infrastructure in the country. Currently the state has been blocked for 6 months and has not been built a single meter of road, no hole is fixed, there are infrastructure projects that have been made and are in a risk of taking lives, and since the Council of Ministers has not decided on this issue and the decision has come to parliament and there is a proposal that is supported by the ruling coalition, I am interested in your attitude.................................................................. Because you are the leader of a political coalition, but there is some mental confusion among your MPs. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u69	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u70	My question is: do you support this decision so that the general policies of the government, including infrastructure, can be pursued? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u71	Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u72	Mr. Yordanov, as you know well, unfortunately, the maintenance of the roads, which had been carried out so far, included two types of projects. The ones that are legal, where real maintenance activities were done. Unfortunately, the other activities were illegal, where there are real repairs That makes these contracts illegal. The only way to pay them is by decision of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And what I am calling for is to have control over the funds and make sure that those companies that are paid are done with real work. Because otherwise I'm afraid we might be paying some money to some people who broke the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u73	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u74	Thank you. Just to point out that what you said is true, and we have no argument there. I asked you directly whether you support this option by a decision of the National Assembly to be able to pay the companies to whom it is to be paid? Plus, the solution is for 50% of what they need to be paid back. You know, if that doesn't happen, one meter can't be done. And I personally say on behalf of the "There is such a people" that the Ministry of Regional Development will not be responsible if something happens or if it does not unblock this process. My question was direct. Do you support it? Yes or no? It's not that complicated, it's a simple answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u76	The answer is: to.. under complete control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u77	Thank you. Iskren Mitev for procedure, and then Mr. Cholakov. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! Empty accusations, false allegations, personal insults, not questions. Please, Mr. Chairman, ask the opposition to apologize not only to the National Assembly, but also to the Bulgarian citizens for making this institution pointless with the insane questions it asks. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u80	I am very sorry, Mr President and colleagues, that I have to take the floor again for a procedure, but indeed what is happening here is already scandalous with this Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has just asked: do you agree with the National Assembly with a vote to confirm illegal treaties, replied with: yes. That was the question. [[Laughter, comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u81	Mr. Cholakov, the procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u82	Mr. Yordanov's question was: do you agree, Prime Minister, the National Assembly to confirm illegal treaties?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u83	Mr. Cholakov, your procedure is with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u84	And he said yes. Tell him to apologize one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u85	Your procedure towards me. [[Replicates from Radomir Cholakov: "A, to you? "]] Please, first of all, let's talk to you in a respectful tone. [[Heckling]] Excuse me? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Yordanov. Colleagues, there's a procedure written down for a question and answer. Comments on the Prime Minister's response and the deputy prime ministers they give are not admissible. Let's not abuse. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u86	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you in the manner of holding the opposition not to interpret what I said, because I said clearly enough and did not say what Mr. Radi Cholakov interpreted. Please hold them off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u87	That's what I'm trying to do, Mr. Yordanov. Is there a question from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The Blitzcontrol for me must, and for us from.. Democratic Bulgaria... must be on key issues of government and somehow we do not like the tone of today. Given the complex issues he has to resolve, such a debate does not look good. Our specific and very important question is this: unfortunately, previous governments, although hundreds of times we said that Bulgaria should be dependent on one natural gas supplier is a problem, it is risky, it is expensive, it did nothing. So, Prime Minister, you have made a personal commitment to us, which you have so far fulfilled, but it is important that you continue to carry out in the same way the gas connection with Greece this year be completed. This is a critical issue for us, which we have put for 10 years each time and have been told: no problem, it is done, and so it has passed these 10 years, which have finally become 12 years, colleagues. So, Prime Minister, it's important to us because people are excited about inflation, gas appreciation, heating appreciation. They like the idea of the European Commission buying gas as a single supplier, which can also reduce the prices that we have already given 2017 but there has also been no development on it. So the important question today about how to have a better, more competitive, more secure gas supply is that this year the gas connection in question with Greece be built and your personal participation in this issue is critical to us. Any further delay must not be allowed as it was in the past. And the excuses we've listened to these 10 years, which I don't know what was in them, they have to stop. So I hope this summer will finally be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u89	And thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u90	Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for the reasonable question. You are absolutely right that with so many crises hanging over our country, important questions must be asked. And thank you for that question. Now specifically. Every week we exchange communication between me and Mr. Kirjakos Mizzotakis, Prime Minister of Greece, who assures me of the progress of the Greek tube, which is now fully built as a pipe. The only thing left is the cable that will control the various stations. I am pleased to say that this project will be completed by the end of June. The other I am happy to say that in the last three months more work has been done on this project than in the previous two years. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Another thing I would like to assure you is that, unlike previous governments, we have taken the whole route and looked at it in person, and we have put the entire priority on this project because currently Bulgaria's energy security depends on it. I can assure you that this is one of the most important priorities of the Bulgarian government at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Do you have a line, Mr. Dimitrov? No. Here you are, Professor Chakarov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There is a procedure before you, Mrs. Petkova, a moment, I can hear you. Listen to me, too, please. Patience. I said, about Mr. Chakarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I take occasion from the words of Kiril Petkov that the blitzcontrol is being done to hear the policies of the government and because this week also on the agenda of the National Assembly was not included the DPS hearing of Kiril Petkov about whether the government intends to take action to reduce the negative effects of the ubiquitous crisis caused by the war in Ukraine and the energy price crisis since the end of last year. Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union in which the government does not have and does not implement a systematic plan with measures against these crises. The socially weak fellows of ours, the pensioners, have remained to cope alone, or more precisely to squander under the conditions of high electricity prices, food prices, medicines, heating. [[(Reply from.. Continue ……]] While aid for the high fuel prices of low-income families is paid in neighbouring Greece, pensioners are given 200 euros a month compensation...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u93	Professor Chakarov, please do not make a statement on the substance, which is like a declaration that is forbidden in blitzcontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u94	These are policies that need to be presented to overcome the crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u95	The procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u96	My procedure is with you, Mr. Chairman, that this hearing does not include where Kiril Petkov and the government present what is happening. In neighbouring Greece we see what is done in this respect, in Romania we see what is done. The farmers...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u97	Prof. Chakarov, this is a point of order on the Programme, which is discussed at the meeting on Wednesday. It's Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u98	Please don't interrupt me because I want these policies presented.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u99	Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u100	Farmers are stalling, fertilizer prices have increased from 300 to 500 times, fuels, everything. People get tired, orchards get their orchards out, farmers, livestock farmers lead the animals to slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u101	I understand, Professor Chakarov. I suppose next week will be included in the National Assembly Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u102	So today I am doing a procedure, Mr. President, that we want our part to be included in the next week's hearing of Mr. Kiril Petkov, as soon as possible, to present the policies as they are in all the Member States of the European Union and neighbouring countries. In Bulgaria, this has not been done. And I'm going to ask you another time not to interrupt the speakers from the stands, because the situation is really extremely critical. You see in what standard, how people live in conditions of this extremely critical situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u103	If you don't mind, Professor Chakarov, I understand. Let's not break any more regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u104	Please. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u105	Here you go, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Letifov, I apologize, Mrs. Petkova was before you. Mrs. Petkova, you have my apologies. Here you go. I hope, fellow Members, that we do not continue speaking in the procedures. There are rules, let's keep it. You have two questions, ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u106	Dear Mr. President, I thank you, however, for looking at this part of the Chamber and giving me the opportunity to make a procedure for you. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Dear Mr. President, I ask you, when Members of the National Assembly from this tribune allow themselves to make suggestions and to say untruths, to take appropriate measures. I am referring to the comment and the question that has been asked by my colleague from Such suggestion is not the first time in this tribune. And I would like to make a strong request once again to the interconnector Greece - Bulgaria was only possible thanks to the policy which led the government of Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u107	Mrs. Petkova, and to you. This procedure isn't really about the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u108	As much as you don't like it, it's the truth. We left a few dozen kilometers to be built, and the government failed with a bang. And right now, there's no contract between the contractor and the contractor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u109	Mrs. Petkova, if you want a tribune, outside the hall there is one, you can take it and make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u110	Mr. Chairman, don't sufflate me, please. Don't suffocate me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u111	Follow the rules, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u112	These are untruths that are spoken of. Just failed the government with a bang. And I don't know, Mr. Prime Minister, when he was on the scene, how he saw a cable running the pipeline. There's no such thing. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u113	Mr. Letifov, one moment, and I'll take my two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u114	Get down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u115	Colleagues [[noise and lines]] Mr. Ivanov, read your rules. And I call on you once again, when there is a procedure in the manner of conduct, the President may, within two minutes, respond to the procedural statement made by the respective MP, because it is to the President of the National Assembly. How can I explain it to you once again? So, right now, we're... [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] At the moment we have blitzcontrol, which provides the following: for MPs who are not familiar. A question from the parliamentary groups and a response from the guests present. Statements by Members of the National Assembly outside this procedure shall not be admissible. Mrs. Petkova, if you don't agree with something, there's a tribune outside this room, the media, I guess they'll be happy to listen to you. But let's not break the rules, we don't take procedures that aren't admissible. Once again, I say that there is no way for the President of the National Assembly to judge in the course of the sitting itself what is true and what is not. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u116	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. President, thank you for the opportunity to do a procedure in the manner of conduct and it is entirely to you. You have correctly done your two minutes under the Rules now to specify your position and the sanctions you are using in relation to the sitting you have held. But just a moment ago, Mr. Chairman, and you violated the Rules of Procedure by struggling all the time to colleague Chakarov, as he made a procedure in essence. [[Noise and lines.]] The Prime Minister said: the important questions are these. We agree with him that the food crisis, income policy, crisis on Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business are an extremely important issue and that is why we have organized in writing and introduced a question. To say this in the plenary, especially to the MPs of the majority, to get acquainted with the submitted projects for questions, decisions and laws in due time with them is actually the agenda of the National Assembly. There is no such qualification as to make sense of opposition issues. Why, colleagues, I'll tell you. Twelve years this was the rhetoric of GERB. You're the same. [[Noise and lines. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u117	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. I took the liberty of interrupting Associate Professor Chakarov because he was speaking essentially in his procedure and the procedure he wanted to make today is not her place at all, and it is her place on Wednesday when these questions are specified. Let's continue with the blitzcontrol. From a question of rebirth? Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, my question, unfortunately, has already lost its relevance, but I will ask it anyway, because it is important not to me, it is important for a group of Bulgarian citizens who do not know at the moment whether their men, brothers, fathers and sons will come back alive and well. For 45 days a Bulgarian ship has been blocked at the port in Mariupol. You are familiar with the case, personally I introduced you nearly a month ago and more. "In early March, before that I introduced Mrs. Genchovska, who is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then we read a statement, we commented on this case many times with you. The situation there is already much worse than the moment we first commented on it. Unfortunately, however, no action has been taken. I would be delighted to learn from you now, if there is, of course, any movement on the issue there is, perhaps, you will answer us, but it is extremely painful when we as MPs here have to explain to people who ask us why you, asking me, asking us, of course, as MPs, do nothing. People are not very aware of the division of authorities and are not aware that there is executive and legislative power. They ask us, but we ask you in turn. I will only recall something else that made a very bad impression, not only in this House, but also in society as a whole. Here, representatives of the ruling formation from "We continue the Change" allowed themselves to say that since the ship was under Panamanian, it was not really under Panamanian, but it was under a Maltese flag, but it didn't matter some foreign flag there, it wasn't Bulgarian, so we had to engage Malta, Panama or any other country, just not our country. It's irresponsible and treasonous behavior by the people who said it, of course. I'm sure you don't approve of this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u119	You have 10 seconds, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u120	Yes, thank you. Bulgarian citizens must be protected wherever they are located, whether on Bulgarian or foreign ships, but in this case the ship is really Bulgarian and owned by a Bulgarian company from Varna. Although we all see what's happening at the moment the battle is in the harbor itself, we have information that our crew continues to hide inside the ship's hold, and there have already been bombed ships there, including. My question is what are you currently doing as executive for the rescue of the Bulgarian crew, the Bulgarian property and property there and the removal of these people to be brought back alive and well in Bulgaria to their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Petkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u122	Dear Mr. Kostadinov, this is also a very important issue, thank you because it affects the lives of Bulgarian citizens in a very dangerous area. What's happening right now: there are 260 meters between the ship and the harbor fence. These 260 meters, unfortunately, are like the alley of death. At the moment, because I spoke to the captain this morning, I speak to the captain every morning and they have entered the Russian tanks and are firing at the hideout, where about 100 Ukrainian fighters are still holding the line. Of the three tanks that had entered, one of them was blown up and the captain asked me to interrupt the conversation because he had to go down to the lower levels in the ship where he was hiding. I assure you that in this detail I know the situation, because we are ready at the first minute when there is no action at the port, to withdraw these people. We have full training, we have a ready group that can take them, but to be able to take them, we need to make sure that these 260 meters are safe enough. I also talk to the women of these sailors and try to inform them every day what the situation is. The good news is that food and water is for at least another eight days, so we have a chance to wait. If this battle ends in the next two days, there is a potential to withdraw the entire ship. If it doesn't end, we hope that there will be no battle in these 260 meters so that we can keep these Bulgarian citizens safe. So thank you for the question, and I'm willing to answer every day to make sure that everything that's up to us is up to us. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u123	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u124	Prime Minister, I will say the following thing as an answer. Yeah, I'm sure you're doing what you can right now, because that's what you're really doing. We're aware because we're also in contact with the crew, only this relationship came quite late. This should have happened at the end of February, when we first mentioned this to Mrs. Genchovska on 27 February. Secondly, if Bulgaria still had any communication channels reserved, because we currently have no normal representation in Kiev or in Moscow, we could use these communication channels to negotiate with the two warring countries, as we are not party to the conflict, at least for now, the removal of our crew from there. That wasn't done either. I know that you are in contact with Mr Zelenski, the President of Ukraine, however, as far as I know, you have not put this question before him, although it no longer makes sense, because Zelenski does not control the situation there and, in fact, even if he gives any orders, there is no way to carry them out. In third place, I'd say something even braver. After all, Bulgaria also has its own special forces. At such times, countries that respect their citizens take action to remove them, even without the knowledge of the warring countries. However, this is risky and this must be done if all other means are exhausted. Right now, we're standing in a situation where we're waiting for the war to end. What if they don't be done in a week?! We have long waited there for the resistance to be stopped, however, as we can see, it continues. If it doesn't end within a week, as they really do for exactly seven and eight days of reduced share, however, let's add it, because you didn't mention it. They have rations that are reduced, and even their reduced rations will run out in a week. What if the war continues?! There is no way they can fish, as someone here said, not to mention names, because it is shameful for the National Assembly institution. So all that you're doing right now is fine, but it's infinitely late. Actions had to be much more timely, much more adequate, much more concerned with Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Prime Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u126	Mr. Kostadinov, to tell you that the whole issue is actually the risk that we are willing to take to bring out the sailors themselves. And let me say quite specifically: two days ago at 9:00 a.m., there was a beating and our group, which we organized to take them out, was ready to go and get them. I said that on the part of Sofia we are ready to take the start of this initiative, but to assess on the spot whether the risk is small enough or large enough to remove them without risk of shooting. The group that was supposed to come in said that they thought it was safe, but when communicating with the ship's captain, he said: it looks like we're not shooting right now, but I don't want to take that risk because it was shooting at night and I can't be sure I'm not ready to take the risk for my crew at this point. So, in fact, from the organization we were even ready to take them out, it was about Monday morning and Tuesday morning at 9:00 a.m. The captain's request was: leave us here for the time being, we think the risk is greater than you are being reported. When I had such a call from the captain, I said: they must decide, it is their responsibility, these are their lives, I cannot say anything more from here. I would also like to assure you that General Venev, personally responsible for this operation, is in communication with both the Russian side and the Ukrainian side. The problem is that these 100 people are in the hideout of the Ukrainian fighters, and coordination at command level is not certain. So even if the Ukrainian commanders say: give a green corridor for just 10 minutes or half an hour, no one can guarantee that this will be fulfilled. So things are a little bit more complicated and more delicate, but I want to tell you that we're literally watching the intervals part-time, and as soon as we see the utility, the group is ready to take them out. If you go to Google Word, you'll see what space it's about. [[Noise and lines.]] No, by the way, the only way these surgeries work is to go into detail. You can't talk about it. You can't talk about it. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u127	There's no such word!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u128	And if it's funny to you, these people are not laughing. There are now 15 people whose lives depend on this detail and I find it shameful for you to laugh about this subject. I would be absolutely ashamed of your behavior. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u129	We get it. We know, Mrs. Atanasova, there is no such word. That's right. [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]] By procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u131	We get it. There's no such word. Yeah, I guess he's using it ironically, like he used factual inaccuracies. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u132	Mr. President, thank you for giving me the opportunity, although the procedure in the manner in which you are being guided in this case would not be correct. I would like to draw attention to the House and also to the TV viewers that our laughter is provoked not by the Prime Minister's account of the situation with the ship on which Bulgarian sailors are located. On the contrary, we are worried and approach this case with all responsibility and in this we would support the efforts of the government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Service of Military Intelligence, which you quoted, Mr. Petkov. Our laughter is provoked by another by the improper use of words in the Bulgarian language and the ignorance of the Bulgarian language. Mr. Petkov, the word "alangro" in the Bulgarian language does not exist. The word "angro" is right. As far as I know, it doesn't have the same meaning as you do in any other language. So, Mr. Petkov, we were smiling on no other occasion. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u134	Which is important when we talk about the lives of 15 people, it is really insulting to see that you laugh and make jokes, no matter what the topic is. These are 15 human lives that you don't respect at this moment. [[a line from MP Desislava Atanasova]] Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u135	Before I give Manoil Manev the floor for a procedure, I just think that we have agreed that on the subject of Bulgarian sailors we are all serious, no one is joking and, of course, this is quite the right behavior. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, the procedure is in the manner of conduct. I don't know why it seems to the Prime Minister that he can speak out of this tribune of things that have nothing to do with reality. But talking about who cares, who doesn't care about lives, people, people in Mariupol, people in Ukraine, people who are in a difficult and scary situation, for Bulgarians there, and not just Bulgarians, and blaming the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u137	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u138	So my procedure is the way it is. Do not let anyone, anyone of this tribune, accuse not whole parties, not whole political groups, not parliamentary groups, but any person in this National Assembly of not caring, I quote, for our Bulgarians who have problems in Ukraine, or for Ukrainian people who have problems there. The time will come and wearing flags, wearing badges won't show what you've done. There will come a time when we will see who really did what in this crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u139	Is this the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u140	Who helped whom and how they helped. Don't rush to put signs on how concerned you are, and no one else is. All this will come the time and all Bulgarian citizens will understand it, as they understood how quickly, how efficient and how well people from the Council of Ministers are allowed to lie every second. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u141	Mr. Manev, I think we have made it clear that we are all serious about the situation with the Bulgarian sailors. No one laughs or expresses any other inappropriate attitude towards the situation with the Bulgarian sailors. However, I ask you, although you have come out of the Chamber, perhaps you will subsequently understand that you do not use expressions to anyone, whether other MPs, or members of the Council of Ministers, are lying. You, Mr. Bachiysky? For procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u142	Colleagues, I am making the following procedural proposal: I propose that the next item be removed from the agenda, which is to take action to detect the danger of the occurrence of an inability to carry out the maintenance activities. And I propose that the agenda continue with the blitzcontrol until 11.00, then with the standard parliamentary control that will be for three hours, and be completed at 14.00. My motives for this proposal are as follows: yesterday I spoke with the representatives of the MRB and to tell you the truth, I am not sure whether this proposal is for Parliament or for the Committee on Anti-Corruption. I think it's necessary to look at this in a lot of detail from different angles. That's why I suggest they drop out of the agenda. We'll watch it when it's all clear on him. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u143	Thank you, Mr. Bachiysky. The proposal is for blitzcontrol from 9.00 to 11.00 or until the questions are exhausted, of course, then we will move on to regular parliamentary control at 11.00. Three hours until 2:00 p.m., and the meeting will be over at 2:00 p.m. Thank you. Inverse opinion by Toshko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u144	Mr. Chairman, for two days we'll be making a fool of ourselves by disobeying our own decisions. First, the agenda was voted on once. Yesterday he was voted twice. Mr. Bachiiski's emotional state is a good thing, but the Prime Minister said it was necessary. It is not illegal, the National Assembly can make such a decision. Let me just say that there is no term in law as an illegal contract. It's a little clamp. So I'm making a reverse suggestion that we stop being ridiculous all of us here with our disoriented movements to the left and to the right without following the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u145	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov, for your feedback. Maybe everyone's in the room now. We can move on to a vote on the procedural proposal. We are voting on Konstantin Bachiiski's procedural proposal. They voted 194 MPs: 108, against 53, abstention 33. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u146	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u147	It's a re-vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 207 MPs: 108 against 98, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u148	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u149	There is no explanation of a negative vote on procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u150	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u151	Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u152	It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman, it is good to note when the most winning political power votes blames its own prime minister. [[Applause from IHN. The ICN Parliamentary Group shall leave the plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u153	Thank you. We move on to the questions from the second round. The Change Continued Is There a Question? I won't. From GERB-SDS? Daniel Mitov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u154	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, two words on the matter of the meaning of this institution. Surely the point of blitzcontrol and of any parliamentary control is to ask you uncomfortable questions that you will certainly not like. However, the point is lost when you start to pass each other some of these pastels as with colleague Martin Dimitrov. It was very funny, nice vaudeville worked out, bragging about each other...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u155	Mr. Mitov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u156	It's cool, but that's not the point. This one, first. Secondly, if you want us not to deal with you and not to see smiles on our faces, learn to speak English, because outside of this room, there is a whole folklore of your way of speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u157	Mr. Mitov, it's been a minute, please. Ask yourself a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u158	I'll continue with the question. First, Mr. Prime Minister, a few days ago Bulgaria witnessed an ugly scene during the football match Pirin Ukrainian student Vladimir Budnikov was obviously deliberately removed, selected by the police and all Bulgaria witnessed the police dragging him by his feet and his head hit the concrete stairs of the stadium. This student a few weeks ago organized the evacuation of Ukrainian refugees.. was awarded by the mayor of Blagoevgrad for this! Please, when you answer the question, don't make him out to be a football hooligan because he's not. The Vladimir Budnikov in question ended in Pyrogov because of illegal use, excessive use of police force and overpowering the powers of police officers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So my question is, who, Prime Minister, is responsible for police violence? Does violence become a trend in this country? Do you tolerate this violence? This tribune has said too much about who is responsible in such situations in the past. Are you going to take action and apply the same standard to Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov as you wanted to apply to our colleagues - Mladen Marinov, for example, and Mr. Terziyski? Or for Boyko Rashkov the standard is one, for them the other?! Who's responsible? Do you tolerate violence? [[Replying: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u159	The weather, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u160	Violence has obviously become a trend lately. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u161	The weather, Mr. Mitov. Over three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u162	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u163	Please, let's keep the time frames. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. If you're not familiar with the specific case, you should...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u164	Dear Members of Parliament, I will get acquainted in the specifics of this case. Thank you for sharing that. I have no record of him, but I hope that no one has exceeded their authority, because what we have seen under the couloirs of the Council of Ministers must never be repeated again. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u165	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. A line from Daniel Mitov? [[Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]] The line will be from Lyuben Dilov. [[Heckling]] Yeah, let's wait for the whole procedure to spin and then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Thank you for that answer, Prime Minister. Finally, to my second question, I will also ask about these culturals, because the columns are interesting. We are aware that the chaos you create creates violence is a natural process. Your management actions lead to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u167	Mr. Dilov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u168	I will give you two more examples of excessive police violence, because when the Minister of Interior, your Minister, is not busy with measures to arrest the opposition, he is obviously applying excessive means of violence against other people. One is the videotape that expired, with the beaten Turkish driver from a police official. And the other, which almost no one in this room knows about, 50 migrants from the Middle East were abused on Sunday in Strandja, due to a fire that led them out of the forest, apparently they were there. And they were pretty rude... No, just to meet the minister. He said he'd get to know one of the cases. Now I want to ask you something else. Is it because there is no record of any official policy on the prevention of violence by your Council of Ministers, we have not heard of such a meeting, for such a discussion, there is no official data on the increased domestic violence. There have been multiple increases in contract killings, Mr. Prime Minister. We also have no record of you gathering and talking about it. On the contrary, we have other data on violence in the Council of Ministers itself. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u169	Mr. Dilov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u170	We've got reports of deputy ministers fighting. It's too bad the deputy prime minister from the party isn't here to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u171	Mr. Dilov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u172	We have evidence of violence with your involvement, Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u173	Mr. Dilov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u174	Reprove them, please. Reprove them! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Or if you stage a fight, please don't keep the opposition on the sidelines. We want in. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u175	Mr. Dilov... The hole will be from the deputy prime minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u176	Mr. Dilov, you, the paint, organized under the Council of Ministers two years ago. [[(Applause and cheers by]] Scream all you want. Don't bother us. [[Laughter, applause and cheering by.]] So, if we're talking about systematic violence, look at what your government has been doing for 12 years in a row. Thank you very much. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u177	Sincere Mitev was before you, Mr. Tsonev, then you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Last week, when the control was delayed, we asked you and you called the ministers, and the aim was to ask questions about the government's common policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u179	Isn't that a common policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u180	What we see today is the opposition to call the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, who is elected by the Bulgarian people that she is a puppet that she cannot speak Bulgarian. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Is that why you called him here? Ask him a normal question. What you're asking, you're not asking anything. You're actually claiming you're making some empty claims here about who's been abused, who's been involved in a fight. That's it? Are those the questions? You obviously have nothing to ask. I guess there's nothing to ask, and you want to talk and get offended by the stands. Please, Mr. Chairman, stop the microphone of people who do not follow the order of the National Assembly and humiliate the National Assembly with their words. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u181	Colleagues, before we proceed with the procedures, because there are many, to say: let us all stick to good tone, let us ask ourselves current questions from the general policy of the government and the blitzcontrol will carry out its design. Mr. Tsonev is for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u182	I'll try to help you, Mr. Chairman, so we can continue with the blitzcontrol. But you really need to make notes and try to interrupt, albeit without taking the floor, in some way the speakers, because there are actually false statements, or at least half-truths, including those we ask. Police violence is ongoing. The fact that Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev here proudly states where there was police violence at all does not change the fact that police violence has and continues since this Minister of Interior is the Minister of Interior. Here is asked about police violence against a Ukrainian citizen, and the Minister of Interior is ordering violence against Bulgarian citizens during the elections, and so on and so forth, to get here to the coulomb gossip what is happening in the Council of Ministers, is there tension, violence and so on. I was concerned, therefore, that at first I welcomed the Prime Minister and asked him if he was calm, whether he had slept, so that we could calmly conduct this blitzcontrol procedure. That is why I also call for us to be robbed of words, including deputy prime ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u183	For the procedure "Ljubchen Dilov," and please continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also wanted a personal explanation, but I'll do it by procedure. Please, we don't get specific answers. My question was really related to the government's common policy on prevention of violence. I gave specific examples. I've been accused of ever being under the columns. I never was, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I, too, was the subject of the management of GERB. I was not a subject. But let me tell you something very important: the first suddenly, immediately made by the Interior Minister then and by the prosecution's request of the video recordings, they were provided and became known to the whole public. At the moment for the same you want to fire General Tonev. And I am asking you a very specific question: you want General Tonev fired because he presented the videos to the prosecution...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u185	Mr. Dilov, please, you've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u186	...or do you want to because you claim he was involved in violence, in combat, in the park?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u187	Mr. Dilov, about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u188	It has to do with my question. Isn't it connected?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u189	No, it's not connected, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u190	The head of the NSA beats someone in the park?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u191	First, the question was by Daniel Mitov. You guys got in on this all right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u192	Well, here we are asking very specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u193	You didn't even mention General Tonev. Emil Georgiev for a procedure and then a question from the parliamentary group of DPS from Yordan Tsonev, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear Deputy Prime Ministers! I don't know my esteemed prime minister how he slept, but I didn't sleep well that night for my reasons, and it's just too much to watch this room become a tragic comedy. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a shame what's happening! Mr. Mitov, I don't know how many times you've been to a stadium.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u195	Very.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u196	My whole life has passed on the terrain as a contestant, and as a judge, I am deeply resentful of the behaviour of the agitators. You shouldn't have used this case in Blagoevgrad because there were firecrackers and in this connection two people were hit and reacted inadequately, of course, and the agitate of Pirin. That's the case! Don't use it to put pressure on the government. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u197	Okay, Mr. Georgiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u198	It's a shame what you're doing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u199	Don't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u200	Because there is a fairy tale, Mr. Mitov, remember it well: the behavior of people...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u201	Mr. Georgiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u202	...is like sin, it can be forgiven, but it cannot be forgotten! You've done a lot of damage and you have all the nerve to blame others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u203	We get it. Mr. Georgiev, thank you. Let's continue with the blitzcontrol. Either way, this case that happened at the stadium in Blagoevgrad, I admit it and I have not started with it, but pretend to be a sports fan. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] I'll definitely meet him. Thank you. Mr. Tsonev for a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's keep our promise to be serious. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is to you and it is related to the leaked messages and information during the past week on the topic of Macedonia. I hope the chatting doesn't bother you to hear the question? The topic is serious enough, we at the DPS have reason to ask this question, because in this House we are the only ones who cannot be suspected of ambiguity on the topic..Macedonia......................... since our position has been very clear since before the topic became a topic for Bulgaria and for Macedonia and for the European Union, when we imposed in the Bulgarian Presidency the topic of accession of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union. Our position is not only clear, we are very committed to these countries, including Macedonia, becoming members of the European Union, and something more But my question is about what's been going on in the last week. One of your coalition partners accused you of national betrayal and of wanting to solve the problem yourself behind the back of the Bulgarian Parliament, the Bulgarian society and, respectively, the other political forces. There were also other information occasions yesterday's visit by the President of the European Commission.. Mrs Von der Lyon reminded us that we should work on the topic and so on. My question is related to this, insofar as it is clear that Bulgaria should work on this issue together with Macedonia and with the European partners, do you think that first of all, how much does it answer the truth that you have decided that this problem can be solved by yourself? Secondly, do you think that this problem in the current situation in the Bulgarian society can be resolved by the Prime Minister himself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u205	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Petkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u206	Thanks for asking. In our coalition, we have a clearly written coalition agreement, which we absolutely respect. We keep all our actions in line with him. At the same time, I as Prime Minister in no way have the right, nor will I try to make any arrangements. We have a framework position, we have a declaration every decision must happen with a full unification, by the way, not only of the ruling coalition, but also of the opposition. We must decide together as a nation, and all of us as representatives of the people must be united around this decision. So you will not take any concrete decision without the sanction of parliament and without the full conviction of all of you who will vote for this thing. On the other hand, I have to say two things that are important. The current situation in Ukraine has made Northern Macedonia even more delicate, as you know, the Western Balkans are also a region at risk. We should all be aware that the security of the Western Balkans is of great importance to the Bulgarian state, with great responsibility we should approach these solutions and the good news of yesterday is that the European Commission said that they are ready to be guarantor through the negotiating framework potentially of the rights of the Bulgarian minorities, of the Bulgarians in Macedonia, in order to ensure that the interests and all the rights of these Bulgarians in Northern Macedonia are preserved, respected, and the negotiating framework and the negotiation process will contribute to this good neighbourhood, which we hope for so long. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u207	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am satisfied with the answer, Mr. Prime Minister, perhaps it is the first answer I am satisfied with. Clap! Clap! Why don't you clap? I'm satisfied with the answer. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Prime Minister, seriously now. This must really be the position and I must remind you that if there are attitudes in society and they are not baseless, we all need to change these attitudes with work, with clarification, with work with our Macedonian partners, but above all with work in society, to clarify what the problem is, what are the ways to solve it, and how it can happen in time. In this direction we of the DPS have a very precise and clear position we are working, and we are ready to work in this direction without affecting in any way the national interest of Bulgaria. Because I am deeply convinced, and our party is deeply convinced that the national interest of Bulgaria, Macedonia to be in the European Union and the national interest of Bulgaria is that Macedonia and Bulgaria are not in the way they are now, and in some other... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u209	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to, Mr. Tsonev, I messed up the button, I apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u210	I thought...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u211	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u212	...my time was up, I was gonna ask for 30 seconds. But here I would like to draw your attention to a fact. This is not the first time that, since you have affected coalition relations that we do not care about, but as far as you have affected them, let me tell you something that is very important. When a coalition is made, it must be held accountable for everything, including its idea-based homogeneousness, including the tasks that have been set and which have the country to solve.. Macedonia is one of the important issues! When you sign a coalition agreement with two unsubs who have previously told you that this will not happen while they are in the coalition and when you rely on the opposition you blaspheme, you spit and arrest if it's a legitimate okay, but when it isn't, it's not okay. That's not very forward-looking. Do not rely entirely on the good will of our party for the sake of national interest to support your coalition, because any decision where one or two of the legs of your coalition are broken, and we or GERB in the interest of national security and interest support these decisions we extend the lives of a coalition that has no meaning. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u213	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I want to ask you something. As Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev has a commitment whether there is one of the groups that has a question precisely to Asen Vassilev..There is such a people,..Democratic Bulgaria............................. and are also without questions. Can we first hear the question from Kiril Simeonov and then I will give the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear Mr. Vassilev! I have a question that excites society, and I think it is rarely mentioned in this House, as we can no longer turn a blind eye to inflation. I would like to ask what anti-crisis measures will you take on inflation? If you can't be quite specific, at least in what direction would the tax benefits be direct subsidies? And a sub-question to this topic: what are you thinking of doing with the excise of fuels, because we know that it is at the minimum level allowed by Europe, and in order to lower it below this level, there must be a permit from Brussels, because we know that as an absolute value the fuels in Bulgaria are really lower than those in Europe, but if we remove these rates of duty and excise duty, that is not the case at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u215	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u216	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. This is indeed a very important issue, as we see a significant increase in inflation rates, which is mainly linked to energy sources and food, which then, of course, reflects all the other goods we consume. We are currently working together with colleagues in the European Union and other finance ministers, as you know, I was in Italy and then in Luxembourg at meetings to find a common European approach on this subject. If each country starts changing rates, what will most likely happen is quite uncontrolled trade and the end effect that we are all looking for will not be achieved, and that is to suppress the price increase. Within the next 7 to 10 days, we hope to have a very clear framework that will emerge from these discussions in Europe, and then we will prepare the Bulgarian anti-crisis package in accordance with this framework. As far as excise duty is concerned, Bulgaria has proposed to halve the European Union's minimum rate so that we can reduce excise duty accordingly. This is still being discussed, and it is not clear whether it will be adopted. If it is not adopted, of course, we will have to take other measures relating to fuel prices. So there are still about 7 to 10 days until the European rules come out, then we will be able to develop and present a package of anti-crisis measures specifically related to inflation. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u217	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Is there a line? I won't. Procedure by Daniel Mitov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you. You are a smart and well-read man, and perhaps you should have made a remark to the Prime Minister while talking about the subject of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and answering the question of the DPS. The note is as follows: there is no Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Bulgaria does not want recognition of a Bulgarian minority in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We want and want the recognition of constitutional status as a country nation of Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, these are two very different things. Very careful in public speaking, Mr. Prime Minister, because these things can lead to reciprocal requests, on the other hand, you know that the Bulgarian Constitution does not allow or recognise collective rights, but only individual ones. Therefore, please, when spoken, be careful with the language, because you know what it can lead to. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u219	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Expressing attitude to answers only in questions, not in questions, please! Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. From "Democratic Bulgaria" "Martin Dimitrov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u220	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First, I would like to begin with the following clarification: it was said by colleague Danny Mitov that I have asked a convenient question to the Prime Minister. I asked him this convenient question to Mr. Borisov and asked him: "Ah, Mr. Borisov, when will the gas connection with Greece be ready?" [[Applause from DB and "We continue the Change"]] , to all the energy ministers the same convenient question, and conveniently you told me: no problems, Mr. Dimitrov, it is being built and it will be ready immediately. That's how it's been 10 years. I have a very specific question, Prime Minister. It is also written to the Minister of Finance, but I want to take advantage that you are here because inflation is the most serious problem in Bulgaria. We have a particular right-wing economic idea that deserves to be considered on it. At EU level, it is reasonable, within six months, to ask the European Commission to remove barriers to imports from third countries for products that we see inflation rising and the internal market in the European Union cannot limit price growth. We can ask this for groups of goods, a list, could be 10, 20 and so on. Yes, this decision is at the level of the European Commission, but the European Commission is both us and one such approach can really limit inflation, because the elimination of tariff and very important, non-cost barriers, the European Union has very complex non-cost barriers, such as quotas, telephones and so on, in six months this will lead to greater imports, increased supply and greater supply leads to a reduction in prices. When these commodities have the highest peaks of appreciation for them, we increase supply and thus limit price increases, this may even asymmetrically reduce inflation, that is, a greater reduction, because when certain goods rise, they pull other related industries with them. Think very carefully about this subject. Now we are discussing smart measures to reduce inflation and the European Union is obliged in this situation to be more flexible, to participate in such a decision and to help reduce the prices of goods so that we call on each country at EU level to say to each other the sensitive goods and to unite them for at least six months to remove barriers to imports. This can immediately reduce the rise in prices. We should definitely try to do it at least. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u221	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u222	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you are absolutely right that the decisions on inflation should be European, so I would like you to make us this proposal in writing in order to examine it carefully, because at this time it is the only way to deal with inflation when we work together at European Union level. We all know that this inflation is currently, unfortunately, mainly coming from energy prices that are imported to a large extent to the European Union, which means that we are in danger of what is called stagnation, if this continues. This means that our response must also be common in relation to energy supply, but it may be a good idea to see which key goods are imported to the European Union, which are currently part of this inflation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u223	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Is there gonna be a line? I won't. Last question in blitzcontrol. Tsoncho Ganev, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the party AGE. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u224	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! A week ago there was an organized protest mainly by Ukrainian citizens in the center of Sofia, supported by a large part of the parties in this Parliament, including your organization, because you don't have a party yet, or I don't know if you will have one at all. It's the other thing that matters. Yesterday there was the exact same similar protest, organized mainly by Ukrainian citizens in Bulgaria, and fully justified people have fled the war, have come here and it is quite understandable that they want this thing to end. From their point of view, it is understandable to want Bulgaria to join their side in this war, but they are Ukrainian citizens. That's not what I'm worried about. The worrying thing is that these two protests, which explain and fight for inclusion, sending of military equipment and ammunition, are attended by Bulgarian MPs. If the first one was not attended by representatives of one of your coalition partners, then yesterday we saw a prominent member of parliament attending this protest calling for inclusion in military actions. My question to you is this: the flags of an extremely pro-fascist and frankly Nazi organization, a paramilitary organization, which in no way conceals its symbols in Bulgaria, which automatically means that among the people who escaped from military action, there are such elements. Elements that are extremely aggressive both in Ukraine and everywhere. My question specifically to you is: the Bulgarian services for which you are responsible and for which you control directly and directly, do they have data, do they control in any way, do they influence such extremely pro-fascist and pro-Nazi organizations, such as "Azov" and their representatives in Bulgaria, because we have all seen the flags of these organizations in the center of Sofia and it is even more disturbing, I say that under these flags are sitting Bulgarian MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u225	In the end, it sounded a little bit like an accusation to my colleagues, but I hope not. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u226	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The protest I was aware of was a peaceful protest and in no way urged Bulgaria to be part of a military conflict. He called on Russia's aggression in Ukraine to stop. It called on the victims, like the ones in Butcha and this type of massacres, not to happen again. No information from our services came to me about any fascist elements that were part of this protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u227	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u228	Prime Minister, it is disturbing what you say for a very simple reason either you or representatives of the services are lying because they differ in what you are saying right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u229	Mr. Ganev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u230	The hole will be from Mr. Sandov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev, I have known personally for many years most of the organizers of the protests that you mentioned. They have neither Ukrainian relatives nor in any way fit the profile that you have defined. I want to tell you that these are Bulgarian citizens concerned about peace, concerned about Europe's prosperity and condemning the aggression that is being carried out by Russia in Ukraine. It is not right to call these Bulgarian citizens in such a way. As for the services, yes, we haven't received that kind of information. Yes, there are people in Bulgarian squares who are openly positioned in pro-fascist, pro-Nazi narratives, but they are not part of this protest, but from other protests that are on the other side, in which, unfortunately, your representatives are also involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u232	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. We've run out of blitz control for the day. At 11:00 we will move on to regular parliamentary control, as is the rules, and we voted a little earlier today. I would like to inform you, colleagues, that from 11.00 am at the Club of the National Representative an exhibition will be opened. The exhibition is dedicated on 8 April "The Day of Roma." To open the door is a campaign of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency. The initiative is aimed at the people of the Roma community. The exhibition introduces us to the Roma lifestyle, rituals, customs and holidays. Those of you who wish to visit her are invited to the event. Before we start with regular parliamentary control, there is time for declarations. I think someone did. Mrs. Zarkin wanted the floor for a declaration. Alexander Nestorov, too. [[Heckling]] All right, let Mrs. Zarkin come in. Actually, are you ready, Mrs. Zarkin? If you don't have it now... I'm waiting. A procedure from Mr. Gajev. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u233	Until the readiness is made for a declaration, Mr. Chairman, a procedure in the manner of conduct. A week ago, again last Friday, I waited culturally for parliamentary control to come for a regular meeting so that I would not prevent the groups from asking their questions. Last week, I asked you about the status of a question that was asked. Today we heard about the bankruptcy of opposition issues. Now I would like to draw attention to the validity of the questions by the government. On 8 March a question was asked by the MP Nastimir Ananiev to Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. Open to the site, it is obvious that the issue is still in the process of processing, for one month now. Last week you made a commitment to inform us what is the status of this question, why is it not uploaded to the site and whether there is a resolution on your part for an answer or a return? Because all other questions, whether they are in accordance with the Rules, whether they are returned from you or whether they are scheduled or answered, are uploaded and, accordingly, by the resolution in question, when to respond or whether they are returned with the reasons. I suppose the question is meaningful, because it is made by the majority, so I hope that you will now give us the status of this question and, indeed, what happens to it, when will it be responsible, or do you have your resolution on it? Because one month of processing is not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u234	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Actually, that's the particular question I forgot to check out, I admit it. But that's because I'm giving priority to opposition issues. Here are those who are not responsible by Mr. Subev, I have explicitly stepped up and, by the way, today the answers have come - those whom I said earlier to Mrs. Angelkova that we are expecting every moment have already arrived. But specifically for that matter, I failed to inform myself of his current status. Is there going to be a new procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u235	Just a quick one, Mr. Chairman. As it is being processed, I hope that, at least until the end of the meeting today, the parliamentary control will leave you the time, or at least by the end of the working day, to control how the Administration of the National Assembly works and that it is no longer in the process of processing, but to have some resolution. After all, since last week, I hope now that I've reminded you again, there'll be a reaction this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u236	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. There will be. And thank you for always keeping me ready. I'm serious. Here you are, Mrs. Zarkin, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u237	I'll support her.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u238	All right, come on in. [[The National Representative Alexander Dunchev stands by the stands.]] The declaration is on the subject of forests, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u239	Yes, on behalf of "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria." Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This week, the forest guild celebrated its traditional holiday. Its forestry activities in the restoration, management and conservation of the Bulgarian forests began immediately after the Release in 1878 by establishing security units from the foot and horseback forest guards, a self-owned sector. The Bulgarian forest, sung in our folk song, gave refuge to our national heroes, shaping our beautiful landscapes, occupies a third of our country's territory. Forests with their ecosystem services have an important ecological, social and economic role. They are key to air cleanliness, biodiversity protection, water balance, protect our soils and help adapt to climate change. They also have recreation functions. Sources are of numerous resources, including wood. As a renewable and recyclable material, its importance for achieving a climate-neutral and circular economy is significant. Over the years, the Bulgarian forests and the forestry college, which cares for them wholeheartedly, face a number of challenges from fires, through illegal exploitation, to serious political pressure, which leads to wicked decisions to the detriment of our forests, and society loses its trust in Bulgarian forestrymen. This requires that we pay particular attention to the Bulgarian forest and the people who are dedicated to the forestry profession so that they deserve public recognition, respect and gratitude. To address the current challenges faced by the Forestry College, our forestry policy is required to be long-term, to ensure sustainable management of the Bulgarian forest and game, to ensure balance between ecosystem services and increasing the productivity, vitality and potential of forests. We will continue to work to find effective solutions for the Bulgarian forests, putting the professionalism of the Lesothor's College, science and innovation in the foreground. Let us together preserve Bulgaria's green wealth for future generations! I wish everyone who loves and cares for the forest, many powers, courage and dedication. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Zarkin. I can only add that in the Eastern Corridor in the European Corner there is organized on the occasion of the Week of the Forest Photo Exhibition by the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva, Tsvetelina Zarkin and Alexander Dunchev. The photo exhibition was opened the other day. I recommend that you, especially if you are interested, consider it. Mr. Nestorov, would you like the floor for a declaration? In a minute, okay. I'm giving the beginning of: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. [[Reply.]] The Prime Minister will come while I read the written answers. Written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 1 April to 7 April 2022 from: - Minister Alexander Nikolov on a question from the MP Stefan Apostolov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev and a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister Asena Serbenova on a question from the National Representative Halil Letifov; - Minister Atanas Atanasov on a question from the National Representative Ivelin Ivanov; on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov; on a question from the National Representative Tsveta Galunova; - Minister Boyko Rashkov on a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; and on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gajev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Borislav Sandov on a question from the MP Blagovest Belev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Grozdan Karadzhov on a question from the National Representative Elhan Kulkov; on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; on two questions from the National Representative Jordan Terziyski; on a question from the National Representatives Radoslav Ribarski and Radoslav Vassilev; and on a question from the National Representative Maya Dimitrova; - Minister Ivan Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Vladislav Panev; to a question from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev; to a question from the MPs Aleksandar Dunchev, Dimitar Nedyalkov, Marin Shishev, Rosen Koshurkov and Bogomil Petkov; to a question from the MPs Aleksandar Dunchev, Petar Kulenski, Michal Kambarev, Radoslav Vassilev and Dimitar Nedyalkov; to a question from the National Representative Boyko Klechkov; to a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from the National Representative Rosen Kosturkov; - Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cornelia Ninova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister Nadezhda Yordanova on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from the National Representative Anton Tonev; - Minister Nikolay Sabev to two questions from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova; to two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; and to two questions from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - Minister Radostin Vassilev on three questions from the MP Yordan Terziyski; - Minister Hristo Prodanov on a question by the National Representative Stefan Apostolov and on a question by the National Representative Stoyan Mihalev. In the framework of today's parliamentary control, Mr. Hamid Hamid has been asked Prime Minister Cyril Petkov about the appointment of the regional governor of Shumen. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, by decision of the Council of Ministers Vladimir Yolov was appointed Regional Governor of Shumen on 14 January this year. At the same time, certain circumstances have become clear around this assignment. It turns out that Mr. Yolov was sentenced on February 20th to three months probation with three years probation. In the court's motives, it says that the act was guilty of direct intent. The question is, how much does this assignment not contradict the Law? According to art. 19th para. 6 of the Law on the Administration of Sole Bodies of the Executive can be appointed Bulgarian citizens with the necessary professional experience who are not convicted of deliberate crimes of a general nature, unless they have been rehabilitated. According to the same law in art. 31, t. The district governor, among other things, is also Chairman of the Defence Council. Here's the thing about rehab. According to the mandatory instructions of the State Commission on the security of information on the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, the person must not be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, as required by art. 40, para. 1, t. Four of the ZKKs. Full rehabilitation occurs when the requirements set out in Section Five are met. 86 of the Penal Code, the following deadlines have expired, in which the convicted person has not committed a new deliberate crime of a general nature, for which punishment is envisaged for imprisonment, namely: five years if imprisonment is up to three years. That is, if Mr. Iolov's probation period expired on 25 February 2019, his full rehabilitation will take place only in 2024. Even if we skip the subject of rehabilitation, there remains the important issue of access to classified information from the Chairman of the District Defence Headquarters. According to art. 40, para. 1, t. 4 of the WITSEC authorisation for access to classified information shall have persons who are not convicted of intentional crimes of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation. In the mandatory instructions of the DCCI on this issue of 25 October 2011 in Section 2nd, p. 2, p. 3 is explicitly said: The lack of permission to access classified information leads to a failure to comply with the statutory requirement for taking up the job. In this regard, my question to you is: were you aware of these facts when appointing the district governor of Shumen district, on what legal basis was the governor Vladimir Yolov appointed and if it is found that his appointment is contrary to the Law of Administration, will there be legal consequences for all the signatures he has put in the last two months? If Shumen's regional governor does not have access to classified information, who will chair the District Defence Headquarters in the complex geopolitical situation at the moment? Against the backdrop of the complex geopolitical situation in Eastern Europe, does the lack of a legitimate Chairman of the Defence Council in Shumen District pose risks to protect national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u242	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Come in for an answer, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u243	Dear Mr. Hamid, the candidacy passed the approval of the DANS and the NRA before he was appointed. His testimony says: "Uncondemned, which means that rehabilitation must have passed because he writes "uncondemned." His appointment doesn't contradict the Administration Act. He was appointed by decision of the Council of Ministers No 10 of 14 January 2022. The crime I met, which you mean, as far as I understand, is mild blood alcohol-based crash 0.5. This is in no way a good deed, but this happened in 2016 and it is currently with the status of a non-condemned person in his criminal record. Based on your question, I called his employers before that to make sure we didn't miss anything or our services didn't miss anything. The recommendations were high. From now on, however, I will bear in mind your question and national security, and we will be very careful about what his actions are and how he is dealing with his position. With regard to his access to classified information, yes, you are right that he cannot now receive such access, because regardless of rehabilitation, the law does not allow it. We intend to give such access to the deputy governor, who, at this time, for any classified information to be handled, is to be a representative of the state there. Thank you for your question, I'll keep that in mind and in his subsequent actions to make sure that everything is right. I don't think this crash with a little over 0.5 alcohol right now puts a risk in national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u244	Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u245	I thank you for your answer, Prime Minister, and to congratulate you for taking an interest in the former employers of Shumen's district governor. It has indeed entered into judgment and the time limits, as they are written in the Law, have not really expired and there is no way that rehabilitation has occurred. I understand your commitment from here on out to check all your footage. Here, next week you will be responsible for a deputy minister, for whom I am waiting for documents from his former employers from France, but also documents from the French authorities. This person there is arrested for various crimes, and in Bulgaria he is appointed Deputy Minister of one of the ministries, but this issue will be developed next week. So please, it's none of my business, of course, to ask where your bank of footage is. She's not at Bye-Stavri's, is she? He's the one who's putting you in charge of all the different positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u246	Prime Minister, you have the right to be treated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u247	Thank you. You must regret that the footage bank is not in your DPS footage bank. Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u248	You're right about that. No. [[The National Representative Alexander Nestorov wants the floor.]] Declaration? Here you go. Prime Minister, there are no other questions for you, we can thank you for your treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! The European Union's fundamental principle is more than applicable to our country. I dare say that we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are the founders of these values over the years to be able to live, united as a people, people of different ethnicities, religions and nationalities. Today we celebrate the International Roma Day, declared such in 1971 by the United Nations, a day which aims to attract the attention of the world public on the constant fight of the Roma for equality. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will continue to fight for the cause of being next to all citizens in defence of their rights by opposing all attempts and actions that aim to divide our society. The preservation of culture, traditions and values of the community is our main mission, the road to success is togetherness through teaching, labor and development in the name of common prosperity. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we extend our sincere wishes for health, prosperity and prosperity to all of Roma origin and with an appeal to the Bulgarian society to continue to be tolerant and understanding. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DPS. Partial applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u251	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. We move on to questions to Deputy Prime Minister Borislav Sandov. First, a question from Sylvie Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues and guests! My question is about the operation of the TPP - Maritsa - 3 - Dimitrovgrad - in violation of the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Dear Minister, TPP Maritsa-3 "AD" has been granted a complex permit KR No 41 H1/ 2012, last updated by decision pa Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Environment and Water No 41-N1-I0-A0/2016. In September 2021, the operator ignites the K4 steam generator operating for three days in order to check the production site of the power plant, according to the operator's information. The emissions are reported to be released organised through the K1 exhaust device, but each of them indicates an emission flow through the K2 exhaust device, even though the valves on the same one are closed. Since the removal of emissions through chimney 2 did not take place outside the starting periods or during emergency stops of the power plant of the thermal power plant, which is a violation of the complex permit, TPP Maritsa-3 "Dimitrovgrad," was sanctioned by RIEW Haskovo. Nevertheless, excesses of sulphur dioxide standards from the installation continue, as well as massive release of disorganized emissions not only from the chimneys, but also from parts of the building for which there is photo material from citizens of Dimitrovgrad from 14 March this year. The problem with the poor quality of the air during the combustion of the installation seems constant and continues to be an increasing concern for the health of the residents of Dimitrovgrad. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: 1. How many are the air quality measurement stations in Dimitrovgrad and are they intended to change their location with a view to better, more reliable reporting of possible excesses in the standards of harmful air substances in Dimitrovgrad? 2. What measures does the Ministry of Environment intend to take as a competent authority in establishing continued and repeated violations of the complex permit and the Law on Environmental Protection by the TPP Maritsa-3 "to protect the health of people in Dimitrovgrad and to protect the quality of the air? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u253	Thank you. Mr. Sandov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, in answer to your questions, in the city of Dimitrovgrad is located an automatic measuring station from the National Air Monitoring and Quality System, which measures the following pollutants: fine particulates from the RM10, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone, ammonia, hydrogen cyanide and a standard set of meteorological parameters. The location of the Rakovski Automatic Measurement Station "Dimitrovgrad," which is part of the national system and meets the requirements of the legislation, in particular Annex 6 to art. 11 of Ordinance No 12 of 15 July 2010 on the standards of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, fine particulate matter, lead, benzene, carbon monoxide and ozone in the ambient air. This Annex sets out the conditions for the deployment of macro-scale monitoring points, requirements for the deployment of the point in order to ensure representativeness of the data, depending on its type and in the micro-scale, requirements for the deployment of a sampling device to ensure representativeness of the measurements. The location of the sites shall be reviewed periodically for verification of compliance with these requirements. During this year, a review of the location of stations which are part of the national monitoring system for ambient air quality shall be carried out by the working group intentionally established for that purpose. There is currently a check at the location of the point in Dimitrovgrad. In 2021 a measurement was carried out with a mobile automatic station which is different from that of the automatic air quality in Dimitrovgrad for the period from 30 July to 11 August 2021 and from 10 October to 8 November. The results of the measurements with the mobile station confirm the trend of sulphur dioxide values, namely by increasing and lowering measured by the automatic measuring station. In this case, a match cannot be sought because the two stations are located in different locations. In this year, indicative measurements will also be carried out with a mobile station according to the established timetable. On the second point, to strengthen the control activity of regional inspections, on the territory of which large combustion plants have an impact on the quality of ambient air in the settlements with registered abnormal standards for sulphur dioxide content in the ambient air, methodological guidelines for planning, conducting and reporting the control activity of large combustion plants have been developed. In addition to RIEW, Haskovo has been given specific instructions for carrying out enhanced control of the activities of the Heat Center, online monitoring of the use at the TPP "Maritsa Iztok-3" and video surveillance through eight video cameras positioned at the TPP site "Maritsa-3" and tracking the values of the controlled pollutants from the Automatic Measuring Station and the one that is mobile. Data from the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology are observed as well as information from the early warning system for possible transmission received with the assistance of the regional inspection. In the case of expected adverse weather conditions for the direction and wind speed of the operator, provisions shall be given to take measures to reduce the mass flow of sulphur dioxide from TPP-3 in order to prevent abnormal values of ambient air quality. European Union legislation and national legislation allow for 24 excesses of the average hourly sulphur dioxide standard within one year, regardless, if Dimitrovgrad continues to register excesses, the MOEW will seek to take stricter and more decisive measures. The next question I will be able to answer you further, as it is also addressed to this power plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u255	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Mr. Kirilov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u256	To ask myself the other questions, they're for this power plant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u257	You want to ask the next question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The general part of the exhibition I'm going to save, I'm going to ask both questions directly because they're referring to the same object. Is the RIEW implemented, Haskovo, regular control over the implementation of all requirements in the complex authorisation of TPP "Maritsa-3" and above all the emission standards laid down there for harmful substances released into the air, and does RIEW "Haskovo," regular follow-up control of the implementation of the requirements imposed to bring the installation into compliance with the requirements of the complex permit and the Environmental Protection Act? My second question, how many and what type of forced administrative measures have been imposed on the operator in the period May 2021 up to now, how many criminal decrees have been issued by the Director of RIEW Haskovo, against the TPP "Marica-3" in the period May 2021 up to now, and what sanctions have been imposed? How many of these criminal orders have been appealed by the operator and finally confirmed by the court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u259	Thank you. Mr. Sandov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u260	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kirilov! This power plant is one of the troublemakers. It is currently functioning because of high fuel prices otherwise it would most likely remain extinguished. Residents of Dimitrovgrad are rightly worried about the violations that are carried out by this operator, especially the excesses with sulphur dioxide, which regularly gassed Dimitrovgrad. Directly to your questions. Following the renewal of the work of the TPP Maritsa 3 (TPP) in Dimitrovgrad May 2021, precisely when fuel prices jumped and it was included, the Regional Inspection in Haskovo, in the exercise of its control powers, for the period from 25 May 2021 to 30 March 2022, has carried out 23 extraordinary inspections and 4 planned inspections. 22 prescriptions have been issued. In the regular controls carried out by the Regional Inspection in Haskovo for failure to comply with the operator's prescriptions, acts are drawn up to establish administrative infringements. The second question is specific. Four acts of administrative misconduct and four penal decrees. The first, as of 11 October 2021, for the determination of emissions to the ambient air from the OR-380c boiler through a leaking device A criminal decree of over 30 thousand has been issued. BGN, and the same is contested and confirmed for the sum of 10 thousand. lv. from the District Court of Dimitrovgrad. However, judicial proceedings continue at the next instance. The second, as of 29 October 2021, for non-compliance with a prescription by the Director of the Regional Inspection in September 2021 for a ratio of the amounts of coal and biomass burned which does not comply with the authorisation in accordance with the complex authorisation. The penalty order amounts to 4,000. BGN, being appealed and annulled by the District Court in Dimitrovgrad. The same decision is currently being appealed by us in this case. The third, on 26 January 2022, for failure to comply with a prescription by the Director of the Regional Inspection in October 2021 for a ratio of amounts of coal and biomass burned which does not comply with the permit ratio in the complex permit. The penal decree issued is 30 thousand. BGN, which is not contested at present. The fourth, from 19 March, for found unorganised emission release on the east side of the boiler room building, a coat of overhead installation under construction for a raised facility............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Prosecution issued in the amount of 40,000. BGN, which is not contested at present. There was an excess of sulphur dioxide last week. Overall, on the basis of all these detected infringements, it is likely to approach a review of the complex permit and its possible cancellation after the operator fails to fit into the permissible norms. I've got another appointment. Bulgaria has a case in the court in Luxembourg with regard to abnormal levels of sulphur dioxide. This case will be over very soon. It's basically over, then it's pronounced. This ruling will probably take place within the next month and everything is expected that Bulgaria will lose this case, which will require us to act precisely on the installations that are in this area and mostly pollute with sulphur dioxide, as this is the case. So we are about to take a little more serious action in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u261	Thank you. Mr. Sylvie Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u262	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Thanks for the answer. For me, it is comprehensive, but I just want to draw attention to the fact that the environment and environmental factors have a direct involvement in morbidity and allergenisation of both adults and children. I believe that with joint efforts we will heal the environment to be clean in front of our conscience for the health of the people of Dimitrovgrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u263	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I thank Mr. Sandov for his involvement in parliamentary control. We move on to questions for Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov. The first question is from the MP Yordan Terziyski concerning a single information system on a structure in the territory, investment design and construction authorisation provided for financing in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is in relation to a commitment which we have already made in the coalition agreement and have commented more than once on the digitalisation of the investment process and it is in line with the already approved Recovery and Sustainability Plan, namely the funding in the Plan for a single information system on a structure in the territory, investment design and construction authorisation, which is planned to operate since 2026. My question is this: is the NAG portal intended to be used as a basis for upgrade to this single information system? Will the two platforms be compatible? Will municipalities be allowed to integrate the NAG portal to provide electronic services as soon as possible and how will a smooth transition to the Single Information System take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u265	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Terziyski, the single information system on the structure of the territory, investment design and construction authorisation will manage the processes in planning and investment design for the conduct of the procedures for the application, electronic signature, official reference, coordination, approval and service of the final administrative act. We will provide an opportunity to submit and approve projects of development plans and investment projects by electronic means. It is envisaged that the system will be integrated with the Unified Register by a structure in the territory, investment design and construction authorisation; secondly, with the Portal for a device in the territory; thirdly, with the Single Information Point established under the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, respectively Directive 2014/61. The integration of the register, portal and system shall be expressed in the following: the system administers by electronic means the process of establishment, coordination and approval of development plans, appropriate coordination and approval of investment projects, the issuing of building permits and the commissioning of completed constructions under the terms and conditions of the Law on Construction in the Area, from applications for the performance of an administrative service to the issue of the final act for its implementation. The above act shall be published in the established register thanks to the integration of a register and system. The approved design plan shall be reflected in the portal for structure of the territory. There is a visualization of the forecast for the specific territory. The integration with the Single Information Point established under the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure will enable electronic communications network operators to submit applications to competent authorities, local and other authorities responsible for the granting or refusal of the necessary authorisations for the deployment of electronic communications networks. An opportunity for integration of the system with the electronic management systems developed by the State Agency is also envisaged. The system is also intended to be open to other integrations, and they will be detailed in the work of preparing a technical assignment for the creation and laid down in the job. The project aims to bind all participants in the process of planning, investment design and construction authorisation, and the spectrum of stakeholders is extremely wide-ranging. The project will be commissioned to execute an external contractor under the Public Procurement Act based on a detailed technical assignment prepared after a comprehensive analysis of the current state of the processes and the regulations. The project proposal is developed in a hypothesis of building the new system and does not provide for the upgrade of existing systems. In the process of operation, the type, parameters and characteristics of the system will be clarified, the main purpose of which will be to use data machine-readable format, a basic requirement in digitalization processes. The system should be able to be integrated with the administrative authorities' business systems, and this is also a serious task which is the subject of analysis with a view to choosing the most effective approach to action. With regard to the possibility of requesting electronic services for the creation of the system at the moment, it is partially provided with the Single portal for access to electronic administrative services e-gov.bg. In addition, I inform you that by my order of 4 April this year an interdepartmental working group has been appointed with the participation of representatives of branch organizations in the investment and construction process. Part of the main objectives set by the working group are to discuss proposals for changes in the regulations related to the introduction of digitalisation and electronization of administrative services, as part of the policy of accelerating investment processes and reducing the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u267	Thank you. Mr. Terziysky, you don't want a line? Thank you. The next question is from the MP Alexander Nestorov on the repair of the Republican road III-1003, Pernik municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Road III 1003 has been a repair procedure since the beginning of 2020, with the same running and not finished. The division between the villages of Rudartsi and Kladnitsa was completely renovated and launched at the beginning of 2021, less than a month after its release the same fell due to a landslide and was closed since then. Accelerated construction in the region leads to intensive settlement in villages and surroundings, respectively, and more traffic. Currently for reaching the village of Kladnitsa and the cabin of Selimitsa is used a municipal road, which is in a desperate state. Moving along this road has long been called normal and safe, even at the lowest speed of movement. This causes discontent in people. In this regard, my question to you is: within what time is the repair expected to be completed? And if the segment is launched sooner, when will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u269	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, within three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u270	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Nestorov, Republican Road III-1003 Dragichevo The preparatory activities started at the end of March, and the real work started on 4 April this year with the signing of Protocol No 2a for the opening of a construction site and setting of a construction line and level for the construction of the technical infrastructure. I would like to add that by April 1st, there was de facto a ban on construction works on all routes of the Republican road network because of the low temperatures during the winter period. The time limit for the good organisation of the work process may be completed in about four months under appropriate weather conditions. The aim of both the builders and the Road Infrastructure Agency is to work with full mobilization in order for the necessary reinforcements to be carried out and not to make it difficult for the inhabitants of the area enjoying this road. For the permanent strengthening and restoration of the landslide section, the necessary design documentation has been prepared and approved and a building permit has been granted for the site. Support activities in an approximately 540-metre section include the implementation of steel concrete pilot anchors for constructions, which will ensure the necessary sustainability of the section. A new drainage of the section and the compromised array will be carried out to stop the penetration of surface water into the road structure. Once the road body is restored, both asphalt layers, marking, road signs and restraint systems will be placed. On 20 December, the Road Infrastructure Agency signed an additional agreement to its main contract for repair of the road section. The total amount of the planned construction works is 3,4 million. lv. The funds are up to 50% of the basic contract concluded and concern the strengthening of the newly formed landslide and affected areas of stabilisation processes. In February 2021, due to heavy rains and snow melting fell and the banquet and part of the road body in the segment of km 4+750 right. At the start of the construction works there were no indications of distortions in the range of the road. Upon completion of the reinforcement activities of the landslide, the wearing asphalt layer will be placed in the section from Dragichevo to the compromises from the landslide section. The horizontal marking along the entire length of the segment will then be placed in repair and road signs will be installed. These activities are expected to end within about a month after the landslide is strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u271	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Nestorov, you have the right to reply within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response and congratulations on the speed of action in view of the fact that my question is asked on 31 March 2022 and on 4 April the topic is already being worked on. I appeal to you this, as you have said, to happen exactly the same way, because, firstly, in your speech it has recently become clear that there is no provision for the municipal road networks, which are the only alternative to this section of the Republican road network, and also the long time in which this road is still closed, and on the other hand there is a lot of damage to cars that brings the Municipality of Pernik into unforeseen costs. So thank you for your attitude and I hope this thing will soon be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u273	Thank you. You have the right to the back. You don't want to. The next question is from MPs Pavlin Krastev, Bajram Bajram, Adlen Shevked concerning rehabilitation of third-class Republican road III-8653 from km 0+000 to 22+500 Kobilane Which one of you three will ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u274	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 91 and art. 92 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we, MPs from the National Assembly, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Freedoms, from the region of Kardzhali, would like to ask you a question about rehabilitation of third-class Republican road III-8653 from km 0+000 to 22+500, namely Kobilyane Dear Minister, in recent years there have been numerous letters sent to the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Road Management Department of Kardzhali in order to bring the Republican road Sh-8653 Kobilane "Borovitsa" in line with the requirements for normal passage and road safety. Unfortunately, to date, a satisfactory response has not been received from them. The reason to turn to you is that the technical and operational state of the road is extremely poor, with potential conditions for the occurrence of road accidents and is in a state of non-useability. C almost destroyed the surface, and on some bridges even missing one, is the road from the village of Dolna Spolka to the village of Kobilane, Kardzhali district. When will the necessary action be taken and when will it be rehabilitated by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Regional Management Office of Kardzhali be able to comply with the standard requirements of the third-class Republican road that connects 21 settlements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u275	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u276	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Krastev, Mr. Bajram and Mrs. Shevked! A Republican road III-8653 Ardino Ardino is included in the Agency's investment programme for 2022 for restoring the operational status and ensuring the safety of the movement. For the section from km 17 to km 20 is envisaged the preparation of a technological project and implementation of the strengthening of skates, complete repair with replacement of asphalt layers, filling and profiling of banquets, replacement of restrictive systems, marking and road signs. The facility at km 9 + 947 m provides for a public procurement for the design and construction of a new bridge. The total repair of 22 km from the third-class road III-8653 from the village of Kobilane to the village of Spooka from km 0 to km 22+500 is proposed for inclusion in the 4-year repair program of API, which is scheduled to be announced this year for the development of the technical project. As far as the road is for major repairs in these areas, there is no way under current legislation the repair will be started this year. In this year, only the order of the Public Procurement Act can be ordered. Only next year will we be able to announce a procedure for the main repair. The project will define the specific repair and reconstruction activities that are necessary, the estimated value of the construction works and their implementation period. Upon completion of a project, open procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractors of construction and construction supervision will then be possible. The repair is expected to be completed by 2025 at the latest. For the period until the main repair will be carried out annually, on-going repair and maintenance activities will be carried out. Republican Road III-8653 was built in the early 1960s, I'd say. In the section from km 0 to km 2+650 the asphalt flooring is only 6 m wide and from km 2+650 to km 22+500 the pavement is with an average width of 3.50 m only. The route is mostly repaired. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Only one time in 1979 and between 1979 and 2021 only sporadic maintenance and repair activities were carried out on the third-class road. The construction of the pavement does not have the necessary wearability and this is the main reason for the unsatisfactory condition of the track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u277	Thank you. Colleagues, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we, colleagues, and in the same way the residents of the settlements had, so to speak, hesitation as to whether this rehabilitation would ever happen. But you might say we're partially satisfied with your response. Today, the chairman of your parliamentary group has said that many of the roads in the country are a risk to the population and this time it is one of these because it is the only one for two regions in Ardino municipality, namely Borovitsa District and the region of Mlekino. As in recent days, your coalition partners have boycotted you, since 2009 it has been boycotted by all governments. We hope that you will not be part of this boycott on this road, on other roads that are in the field, and in the same way in the country. Just one remark. Let us note that where the bridge was taken on the road in question to the village of Kitnitsa, there is almost no asphalt road to the village of Dolna Slupka. To be taken into account, if possible, when the rehabilitation of this road is started eventually, it should be started from this part and soon. 2025 is so to say a distant horizon we understand that there are many roads, but this is the only way for these settlements. This is a new, attractive tourist destination and if the government wants to develop it and keep the young generation and the population in these settlements, an hour should rather be rehabilitated this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u279	Thank you. A hole? You don't want to. Thank you. The next question is from the MPs Nikolay Nankov and Mihail Iliev about the construction of Ruse Motorway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u280	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Karadzhov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The construction of Ruse Motorway is a major priority for the creation of modern infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria. The main objective of the project is to ease from and to the Danube Bridge and increase road safety. The track is part of infrastructure Pan-European Corridor 9, starting from Helsinki, Finland, and ending in Greece, Alexandroupolis. The importance of the road is of great importance, as it provides connectivity and synergies between production, resources and markets in the regions it goes through. The road is extremely busy, as according to traffic police data in Ruse "White daily passes between 8000 and 10 500 vehicles. As a result of intensive traffic, the Road Safety Institute ranked the Ruse Road "White in the Top 3 Roads, which took the most human victims " an average of 20 victims per year. In the last three years alone, in the 60km stretch of this corridor, there have been 1301 road accidents where 60 people were killed. This objectively requires the emergency construction of a motorway road to relieve the load and significantly reduce road accidents. The motorway will also reduce the passage of heavy traffic through the settlements, which will limit the negative environmental impacts on the population of the region. Dear Minister, from the stands of the National Assembly on 14 January 2022 in response to a question by fellow Member Krum Zarkov concerning the construction of the highway Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo stated the following: An assessment of the tenders received shall be carried out at present. Upon completion of the Commission's work, the appointment of a contractor for the respective position and the submission of the required documents by the designated contractor will be subject to the signing of the contracts for the execution of engineering. In the event that the decisions to appoint a contractor for the position concerned are not appealed, we plan the conclusion of the contracts in May and the completion of the construction procedure in March 2028 for the section Ruse "White and April 2027 for the section of the tour of the town of Byala. Based on the fact that the month of May is approaching and taking into account what you have said, we would like to ask you: when will the procedure for selecting a contractor to build the route of Ruse Motorway be completed and when will the real activity of building the corresponding route be started? The electronic platform of the Public Procurement Agency in the buyer's and API profile for the relevant procedure does not include any protocol from the Commission for selecting a contractor, which raises great concerns that the procedure will not be finalised within the next few months and the start of the highway construction will be postponed for an indefinite period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u281	Thank you, please consider the weather. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u282	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Nankov and Iliev, on the contrary, will meet the deadline. The Commission is meeting and working, and as a minister, I have no right to interfere with the work of the Commission, but it is working. In addition to finalising this procedure, there was no other indication from the Minister, and just like you, I hope that very soon phase 1 is the assessment of technical proposals will be finalized so that envelope 2 can also be opened where the financial proposals are located. The priority projects on which the Road Infrastructure Agency is working are for improving the links between Northern and Southern Bulgaria, which cross the Balkan Mountains. One of the steps in this direction is the construction of Ruse Motorway. I would say that recently this is also the continuation of the highway Ruse "St. Veliko Tarnovo through the Balkan Mountains again with a highway gauge along Stara Zagora and a connection with the two highways, which are even further south of Trakia and Maritsa. In this regard, I would like to assure you that the work of the Commission is continuing to examine and evaluate the tenders received under the procedure and to determine the contractor and design and construction of the Ruse Motorway on two separate positions. The procedure covers the first two sections and one is Ruse "White," which is 40 km long, and the other is the tour of the town of Byala with a length of 35 km. Following the completion of the Commission's work to examine and assess the tenders received, the Commission shall, in the event of an appeal against the decision on the designation of contractors and secured financing, plan contracts with the selected contractors of the respective position. I note that the evaluation of tenders for the implementation of such projects, including design and construction, given the volume, characteristics of the sites and their requirements, is a long and complex process. According to the procurement documents, the time limits for the construction of the technical project are: for the section Ruse After the development of technical projects and issued building permits, the real construction works on the construction of the two sections of Ruse Motorway will be started. In addition, I inform you that this year there will be a tender for a technical project and a plot plan for the third section of Byala to Veliko Tarnovo, it will be about 60 km long and the contract with the selected designer is expected to be concluded by the end of the year. By the end of 2023, the technical project and the construction plan and parcel plan are planned to be ready and the environmental procedure to be carried out by the end of 2024 and approved by the parcel plan. By mid 2025, we plan to complete the field security and to carry out the procedures for the selection of contractors for construction and construction supervision. In mid- 2025, construction of the precinct is expected to begin after a construction permit is issued. Regarding the publication of the minutes of the Commission's work on the website of the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the Public Procurement Agency, I would like to point out that according to art. 54, para. 7 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Public Procurement Act, the Commission shall examine the documents under art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Compliance with the requirements of the personal situation and the selection criteria set by the contracting authority and a protocol is drawn up. In accordance with art. 54, para. 8 where the Commission finds a lack of completeness or non-compliance with the information, including irregularness or factual error, it shall indicate them in the minutes by paying the minutes to all candidates or participants. In view of this, the Commission is not included in the publication of the minutes of its work at this stage but only in the notification to candidates or participants in the procedure of the circumstances laid down in the Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u283	Thank you. Colleagues, you're entitled to the duvet. Here you go, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! My line will be in several key aspects. First of all, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this is a republican road that will be built with budget resources, and God willing, partly with budget and partly with European. May God be approved, but unknown when. By the way, on this topic we do not have any information in the last year and about the future of the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" because it is set as a leading project in it. Why would I say that? Because in this way you will not be blamed for building this path by your coalition partners. Here you will actually have a carte blanche to start work immediately after the public procurement. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] God forbid that's sooner. I will make one comment, of course, that is the second aspect of our line. In no way do you have the right, either as a minister, to interfere with the work of the independent Commission which deals with the tenders received, but you, as the principal of the Road Infrastructure Agency, may request the contracting authority of its chairman, who is the contracting entity of the public procurement concerned, to order that he bet or change in the order the time limits for examining those tenders. You said that the Commission was working, but a year and a month ago, we are obviously at the same level of work as the Commission as chronology, since even then there was the opening of envelope number 2, that is to say, for price offers. So much work has been done in the last year, the Commission hasn't moved a bit of a yota either. My well-intentioned advice is: as the road is extremely important and the construction of the Ruse Motorway, Veliko Tarnovo as part of Transport Corridor No 9 and as one of the busiest roads with road safety problems and the victims on it, it really hastens you, because in the 2022 budget you have set 115 million. lv. advance payment under any future contract. Our concern is that this is yet another buffer, which Deputy Prime Minister Vassilev has bet on, because, God forbid, there should be an appeal and I will end, Mr. President, on the Commission's future decision, and there is no longer within this calendar year, and if the Commission's work is slowed down a bit further, you can conclude a contract and you can master this 115 million. BGN, which you bet on a budget. [[the President signals that time has run out]] We are absolutely well-intentioned, so good luck with the job! The road is extremely important not only for Russians, not just for Turnovs, but for all residents of Bulgaria travelling on this road and all transiting on a daily basis over four thousand cars on it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u285	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Mr. Karadjov, you have the right to the back? You don't want to. The next question is from the National Representative Rumen Hristov about the site of Gabrovo's Tour and tunnel under Shipka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u286	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Thematically related are the two issues, so it happened. Mr. Minister, the tour of Gabrovo and the tunnel under Shipka are extremely important for the transport connectivity between North and South Bulgaria. The number of passes through Stara Planina are counted on fingers, and the implementation of an easy, fast and economical transport transition through it is an extreme relief for the economy of the country and a prerequisite for the equal development of the regions concerned. The first part of Gabrovo's Tour is about 23 km long and is realized with European funds in the previous programming period and was completed in 2020. The second part of Gabrovo's Tour is included in the Operational Programme. On 27 January, the media reported that you requested confirmation of the tender submitted by the ranking participant in the open procedure. As far as I know, they confirmed the tender submitted and consequently you requested the necessary documents for the conclusion of a contract. More than two months have passed since then, but no information is available on the further development of the procedure. In this regard, I would like to ask you and please answer: how far has the procedure reached with regard to the conclusion of a contract between the builder, the construction supervisor and the road safety auditor for the above-mentioned site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u287	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, the shortest answer to your question would be that at any moment I expect the signing of this treaty. The fact that I haven't been informed about his signature this week literally makes me think it might happen next week, so really a little more patience. This extremely important first tunnel through the Balkan Mountains I think the whole of Bulgaria awaits it. The work on the preparation of the project for the construction of the tunnel under the Balkan Mountains in Gabrovo is not spiraling. The contractor, who has won the tender for design and construction at the last stage of the big investment project, which is called the Gabrovo City Tour, including a tunnel under Shipka peak, has confirmed the volatility of the tender submitted and is to be literally, if not within days, within a week, two conclusion of this contract. The deadline for the preparation of the technical project under the offer is 240 calendar days and 1280 are the calendar days for the construction works or nearly three and a half years and the second period starts from the signing of Protocol No 2a for the opening of a construction site and the giving of a construction line. For the site there is an EIA Decision in force, No 4-2 from 2012, which entered into force in April 2014, and in May 2016 have completed the alienation procedures. With an opinion issued by the Minister of Environment and Water, the Programme of Transport and Communications is agreed with the contracting authority Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, including B.5.19 of the opinion, the following condition is laid: "To assign additional assessments for the passage of the tour of the town of Gabrovo, including a tunnel under Shipka peak through the territory of the Nature Park "Bulgaria" as at the moment for the specific conservation objectives of the protected zones "BG-399 Българка" and Nature Park "Bulgaria" is adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Waters, but is in the process of appeal. This, in turn, prevented the Road Infrastructure Agency from exercising the requirement to award the additional assessment of the project's compliance. In this regard, in a letter dated 2 February this year from the API, we requested the MOEW's opinion on the compliance of the option chosen in the EIA procedure with the defined conservation objectives for the protected areas of As no official response by the Ministry of Transport was received within the 30-day period, on 8 March, the Road Infrastructure Agency (RIT) sent a letter. It requested information on the expected deadlines for determining the specific environmental objectives of the Nature Park "Bulgaria" and at what stage of their approval by the Ministry of Environment should be in line with the project's compliance with those objectives. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'll finish up in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u289	Thank you. Mr. Hristov, you have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased with the answer I received, I am also pleased with the attitude you have to the infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria because, you know, it is the basis for the development of the economy as a whole. It is no coincidence that the investments in southern Bulgaria are nearly 10 times more than those in Northern Bulgaria, as one of the biggest, one of the main reasons is the lack of infrastructure to meet the current requirements. And that you focus on Northern Bulgaria is good and gets admiration from my humble personality.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u291	Thank you. You have the right to the back. You don't. Thank you. Your questions have run out. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. Next, there is a question by the National Representative Mumun Mumun concerning the recruitment of workers from third countries to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Georgi Gokov. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hear that the previous issue was somewhat on the subject of investment. In this regard, my question is actually related to third-country workers. I have been provoked to ask this question and these questions from my meeting with Bulgarian employers. There is a complex situation in Bulgaria, I can say because, on the one hand, we are fighting unemployment, and on the other hand, the business speaks of a lack of labour and a qualified one. Mr. Minister, according to preliminary data on the website of the National Statistical Institute since 2021, the population of the Republic of Bulgaria has decreased by 844 thousand people and currently the entire population of our country is about 6.5 million people. Trends are in the direction of permanent decline and ageing of the population. With the exception of Sofia in all other areas of the country, the number of people is decreasing. In this regard, I have a few questions, but Dear Minister, let me first say a few things. If we do an analysis of the business as it is structured and positioned in the country, we will see that in small towns, in small villages, in larger villages, the municipal centers, the district cities, I exclude Sofia, the business as a whole is difficult to find labour, the issue of qualified ones is separate. There are several reasons we need as MPs, you as Minister and the Ministry to analyze the reasons for this thing. First of all, we are fighting unemployment by analyzing and looking for these reasons, on the other hand, for business to continue to exist in order to work after all, anyway few remaining businesses in the country and to pay taxes naturally, but in order to function, there must also be people who will work. From this point of view, one of the opportunities for the Bulgarian business is to look outside, outside the country, with the idea of inviting workers into this situation. Naturally, the first wish of both us as MPs and Bulgarian employers is in the Bulgarian companies to work Bulgarian citizens. I say again, while we're dealing with and looking for a solution to these problems, it's good, even if it's temporary, to give a calm, an opportunity, and there is one, but apparently there are reasons for asking. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , hiring workers from other countries. Twenty seconds, Mr. Chairman. How many foreigners are employed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria from third countries to date; do you foresee additional measures to ease the application procedures of the Bulgarian companies who complain about the clumsy process; how many seasonal workers were employed in 2021; is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy considering measures or policies for the upcoming season in 2022?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u293	Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u294	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mumeun, the questions you put in this question, of course, given the demographic picture, given the migration of the labour force, are extremely relevant, and the employers' organizations, trade unions, are also exciting to us as the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Straight to your questions. According to the information of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) in the Ministry of Interior in 2021 was granted the right to long-term residence and work of 2452 third-country nationals, of which they had single residence and employment permits, 470 with permissions for a seasonal worker, 474 with blue cards of the European Union, 157 with permissions of intra-corporate transfers. For the period from 1 January 2022 to 21 March 2022, the issued residence and work permits are 854, of which 608 with single residence and work permits, 89 with seasonal worker permits, 144 with blue cards of the European Union, 13 with intra-corporate transfer permits. The employment agency has granted 235 employment authorisations to posted persons. In order to improve the procedures for issuing residence and work permits from 1 July 2021, amendments and additions to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria have entered into force. The two laws introduced the principle of one-stop shop, which significantly reduced the administrative burden for employers willing to employ third-country nationals. Applications for permissions for long-stay and type of work are already submitted to the Department of Migration or to the Department, Sector, Group of Migration at the Ministry of Interior's regional offices by the employer authorised by his or her person or personally by the foreigner, where there is a permit for long-term residence. For these cases, the Directorate-General for Migration shall send the application electronically to the Employment Agency together with the attached documents. Access to the labour market in these cases shall be permitted by the Ministry of Interior after the positive written opinion received by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency. During the changes of labour mobility and the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, maximum time limits for processing documents by the Employment Agency were optimized and the fee paid by employers to the Employment Agency was removed. In view of the above, I believe that the existing provisions in the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility are reflected by the continuing trend in recent years of maximum simplification of the administrative burden for employers in the application process and obtaining the relevant residence permit for work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. As regards seasonal workers, it should be pointed out that in 2021 a total of 6087 seasonal workers were employed, of which 5268 with registered seasonal employment up to 90 days and 819 were authorised for a seasonal worker from 90 days to nine months. The most of the registered seasonal workers are from Ukraine From seasonal workers from 90 days to nine months the most are the citizens of the Kyrgyzstan Republic of.. 397, the Republic of Turkey.. 174, the Republic of Uzbekistan. 108. Seasonal workers work mainly in the sector of Hotels and Restaurants and offices: maids, receptionists, waiters, bartenders, cooks, assistant chefs, kitchen worker and others with a service in almost all resorts of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, as well as in the resorts of Bansko, Borovets, Pamporovo and others. In response to the needs of employers in the sector of "Hoteling and Restaurants". Additional information for the purpose of more publicity and transparency regarding the employment of foreigners as seasonal workers, the applied procedures for seasonal employment, which contain conditions for access to the labour market, the necessary documents, the deadlines for providing services and the follow-up of the employer in relation to the Law, according to the exercise of employment by foreigners in the territory of the country has been developed and published on the official website of the Employment Agency. In order to facilitate the procedure for employers wishing to hire foreigners for seasonal employment up to 90 days from 2017, the Employment Agency provides the opportunity to submit the documents directly to the offices of the Employment Officers in Sofia, Burgas, Varna, Plovdiv and Blagoevgrad, as well as to the offices of the Employment Officers in Samokov, Smolyan and Razlog. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Seconds, Mr. Chairman. In order to facilitate procedures, a document verification sheet has been introduced and trainings have been carried out for employees from the territorial divisions of the Employment Agency who have been designated to adopt and review the documents submitted together with the employer. The employment agency is in the process of introducing electronic registration procedures for access to the labour market of third-country nationals and thus will optimize the time limits for processing documents under each registration procedure, including in the provided registration service for seasonal employment up to 90 days, which will relieve employers from the tourist business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u295	Thank you. Mr. Mummyun, you have the opportunity to ask two additional supplementary supplementary supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, it happens that for various reasons, perhaps a workplace has to chase the worker. What do I mean? You quoted the big problem, which is migration in fact. Naturally, from the small settlements migrated to the slightly larger district centers, from the district centers one such stream to Sofia and the other larger cities and somehow the worker distanced himself from the workplace. We cannot, of course, expect the employer who has built for 20 years a job as a base, say, in a population of X, to leave everything he has done there to come to build something else in the larger city, and this is a centralization that is not so necessary. From this point of view, I also, by the way, had a meeting with the Employment Agency. I see that given the changes that have been made here recently in the Law, we are working in this direction. I have seen a lot of competent people who are adequately minding their own business, want to find a solution to the problems and facilitate the recruitment of such workers where necessary, but the truth is that still these industries, such as production, processing, not to talk about seasonal employment, it is in itself quite difficult, because in a small period, many workers have to be employed, which is quite complicated given the reduction of the population in the country, the truth is that still the industries are struggling. I mean, my question is: is there anything else that we as legislators can do here on your proposal, if you will, and such indications and things that we have come to know to facilitate and alleviate the process; perhaps we should talk about the ratio of how many Bulgarian workers and how much you have the right to hire foreign workers, perhaps I say, is not a proposal, is there anything else to think about in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u297	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the right to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u298	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mummyun, the short answer to your question is: yes, there is always more to be done. I just want to tell you that, with our legislation, after the last changes since 2021, and which we have made before, the Bulgarian labour market is one of the most relieved labour markets in the European Union. Access to it is much easier than in some other European countries. I would say that this would be a problem for our labour market in the case of higher unemployment and in the case of qualified labour. Really nothing new will I say from this tribune, but due to the lack of labour in Bulgaria, which is a serious problem for employers, is good with this eased regime for access to the Bulgarian labour market. You know that now Ukrainian refugees, even if they arrive here and ask for temporary protection or some other type of humanitarian protection, they have access to our labour market for 90 days within three months in the agriculture, forestry, hotel and restaurant sectors. So we are really relieved of the labour market by the admission of workers from third countries.... outside Bulgaria and the European Union. What else can we do? I don't think we should relieve the labour market anymore. Perhaps, despite the abridged administrative procedures, to shorten them further and to relieve employers when importing labour regardless of seasonal work or other work. And one more thing I would like to say, which we are about to do in a short time, and for which I will ask for support from all the groups in the National Assembly, this is a small change. In fact, there are three changes in the Law on Labour Mobility and Labour Migration, in the Law on Employment Promotion and in the Law on Social Assistance. These changes, which we will propose between the first and second votes with the Employment Promotion Act introduced to the National Assembly, which will facilitate access to the labour market of Ukrainian refugees who entered the country, on the one hand, can be a very serious resource for employers as a labour force. I'm going to ask for your support on this. The last thing I say in this direction is that we need to look for activation of inactive persons in Bulgaria, who, according to my expert judgement and other people dealing with problems in the labour market, are about 150 They're low-level people. We were just at the opening of an exhibition. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There was about activation of inactive persons, raising their qualifications, including employment as a resource for labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u299	Thank you. Mr. Mummyun, you can express your attitude within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will be waiting with interest for the proposals and your intentions to be discussed in the Commission and here in the Chamber to move towards easing these processes. I mentioned it earlier, but I would like to highlight something very important. First, our desire here as MPs, I believe that all of us in the Council of Ministers and all employers in Bulgaria and all of the business is in the Bulgarian business to work Bulgarian citizens. But Bulgarian business is ours as well as Bulgarian citizens, so we in this difficult situation have to take care of our business, our Bulgarian business. So let's think in this direction, even if it is a transition, there may be a eased regime or eased procedures in this direction, with which the Bulgarian business can find such labour in order to survive and survive. Just by finishing, I can see that your intentions are in this direction and I welcome you to this, but I would like to draw attention to the training centers. I've personally met them over the years. It's unpleasant, but I'll tell you that a lot of these training centers are doing some sort of fictitious activity, not what they have to do on the ground. Another point is that we must also think about the training of these people. Shortly I say only as an example: an employee who will come from Ukraine or Moldova and will work in a restaurant, at the very least should know Bulgarian language to the extent that he can serve the staff if he works in a restaurant. This type of training is good to conduct as a state policy. That is to say, not to aggravate the employer with these processes, and we as a country to think about it. Let's also look at these training centers that I mentioned, and I think they're abusing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u301	Thank you, Mr. Mummyun. That was the only question to Minister Gokov. Thank you for your participation, Minister, in today's parliamentary control. Goodbye. Have a good day! We move on to the questions to Minister Zakov. The first question by the MP Stoyan Taslakov about the school polygon near the village of Tsrancha, Pazardzhik district. Here you go, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the residents of the Pazardzhik village of Tsrenca informed me that the educational range of the Ministry of Defence, in close proximity to the village, is yet to be extended by another 500 beds. In this respect, the area of the polygon should probably also be increased. Therefore, I would like you to answer my question: is there an increase in the area of the polygon with neighbouring properties and is the clearing of the forest near the village of Debrashtitsa, located next door? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u303	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u304	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Taslakov, in response to your question, I provide you with the following information: in the period 2020 All buildings are built within the very boundaries of the study range, while the area of the polygon is not increased during that time. There is no provision for extension of accommodations, i.e. the bedside base, with more than newly built. In connection with the future construction of a sports facility with obstacles, which is an element of the military petoboy "one of the most popular disciplines in the world military sport, held annually in the form of regional tournaments, European and world championships, Pazardzhik Municipality has donated to the Ministry of Defence a land estate located in the village of Tsrancha, the locality of the Koritski road. Pazardzhik municipality, with an area of 540 square meters, which is given to the area of the polygon. The construction of a sports facility of this rank raises the prestige of the Pazardzhik district and the region both among the European community and with NATO member states. The acquired area of 540 square meters does not provide for the cutting of vegetation and forest arrays. In the future, no increase in the area of the polygon with neighbouring properties is envisaged. There is also no provision for cutting of forest arrays from the lands of neighboring settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u305	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Taslakov, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u306	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In a way, I think the people of the village of Cruncha will be satisfied. On the other hand, I want to tell you the reason for this question of mine. Residents have been struggling for years to shift this polygon, as it systematically, for many years terrorizes the citizens there with increased levels of noise, thunder, explosions, because of which there are cracked houses, and the polygon itself is perhaps meters away from the last houses and even has launched a signature for its removal and displacement. But the biggest fear of the local people is that in the event of a possible military conflict in which Bulgaria can be involved, this will be one of the places potential targets for the enemy army. As we can see, there are growing indicators that Bulgaria can be involved in a conflict, given that representatives of the ruling coalition...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u307	Mr. Taslakov, please, without such suggestion from the National Assembly that we will be involved. Let's not scare people too much! It's not right!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u308	...are involved in protests under the title of "We are not neutral." "I was referring to colleagues from democratic Ukraine and BSP for Ukraine." Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u309	Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Bogoomilov Petkov on the Macedonian-Bulgarian Foreign Legion You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u310	Mr. Chairman, it was possible for the colleagues of the AGE to stay and hear our question with colleague Kirilov. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, we have received a signal to which we apply photo material in social networks that in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is formed a voluntary Macedonian Bulgarian Foreign Legion - Todor Alexandrov, whose goal is to join the fighting activities in Ukraine. As you can see from the photos, he's conducting combat training with weapons and drones. As it is evident from the photographs that exercises are being carried out with weapons in public places in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, please answer: do you have information about such battalions and is there a legal regulation for such action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u311	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u312	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, Dear Mr. Petkov, in response to the oral question you have submitted concerning the Macedonian-Bulgarian Foreign Legion to participate in combat actions of the country of Ukraine, I inform you of the following: The Ministry of Defence has no authority to investigate the membership of Bulgarian citizens in various organizations. In your question you have pointed out as a source publications and photos on social networks and in particular in a specific Facebook group. The verification found categorically that it was about publications aimed at misleading and manipulating public opinion, as well as generating additional tensions. First of all, the photos published on the Facebook pages of the Macedonian-Bulgarian Foreign Legion are fake. The main photo was processed photo of supposed volunteers from Belarus and the flag from the original shot was removed and added the Bulgarian one. Photos showing alleged training on our territory are also manipulated and borrowed by other groups and this is clearly established. I would like to note that most of these photos and materials are taken from pro-Russian sites and groups on the Internet. Moreover, the sites that publish the posts on this group's website are such with numerous pro-Russian publications reflecting Russia's only point of view in the war with Ukraine. It must be clear that in addition to the war in Ukraine, there is currently a fierce information war in the world with the use of disinformation. This information war is taking place on the territory of Bulgaria. One way to prevent Bulgarian citizens from becoming victims of foreign attempts to manipulate is by giving very clear political signals and sending unambiguous messages about our positions, as well as about who is the aggressor and who is the victim in this conflict, as well as about our assessment. I am taking advantage of this case, Mr. Chairman, to call: the platform of the National Assembly not to be used for manipulation of the Bulgarian public opinion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u313	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I fully share your call. Mr. Kirilov will make the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, it is clear from your answer that it is a hybrid attack that aims to spread tension, and it is good that we have received an answer to this question. In this case, the Ministry of Defence is obliged to fight disinformation and hybrid attacks such as protection of our national security, not only the Ministry of Defense, but also all other services that are involved because of what has been shown in this group, a lot of people share it, a lot of people share the opinion and then very difficult to come up with that we have taken action in time. Now is the time to act and we have no right to make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u315	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? We move on to the next question, colleagues, and he is from the National Representative Angel Georgiev on the costs of the company "Stryker" and the Allied Battalion of NATO and the Air Force of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u316	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At the invitation of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov in Bulgaria will be located a company with fighting machines. The country is also expected to arrive from Britain, Italy, USA, to join the multinational battalion that will be located in our country. From 4 March to 24 June 2022, forces and funds of the Air Force of the Kingdom of the Netherlands will be deployed on the territory of Bulgaria in the composition of up to eight planes and up to 200 servicemen, and there will also be talk of Greek forces to be deployed in our country. In this regard, my question is: from the budget of which office will be paid the costs for the company "Stryker" and the multinational battalion, for how long will they be located in the territory of our country, what is the number of foreign soldiers in it and what is the monthly amount separately for each of these groups? What are the monthly expenses for the Bulgarian taxpayer for the presence of the Air Force of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u317	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Georgiev, regarding the cost of the forces of allies in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the fighting group was established by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 January 2022 on the implementation of tasks to enhance vigilance and defence potential after the Russian military aggression in Ukraine and is part of the efforts to strengthen the eastern flank of the Alliance. In view of the serious deficits that we have, Bulgaria has invited its NATO allies to fill them out and help us. In other words, Bulgaria decided on its own, in view of its security, to establish a multinational battle group and to invite allies to participate in it itself. The United States has provided for the battle group a company "Straker" which since the beginning of March is located in a polygon "New village" for participation in joint preparation. Bulgaria as a host country has no commitments regarding accommodation, financial and logistical provision of the military-related forces and funds of the United States. In other words, Bulgaria has no financial commitment to the company. With regard to the second part of your question,.. about the costs of the Air Force of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.. Bulgaria does not have a financial commitment, that is, it does not pay, it does not spend money on the Bulgarian taxpayer for the presence of the Air Forces of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Bulgaria. There is a decision of the Bulgarian Government of 8 March 2022 on increasing the security of the country's airspace by carrying out tasks by the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria, together with the Air Force of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. This decision clearly states that the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands bear the cost of their own powers and resources. It is agreed in the event of unforeseen circumstances, we are talking about a force major already, the host country, i.e. Bulgaria, to provide, if possible, logistical support, to provide the necessary equipment and/or services with subsequent reimbursement of the costs incurred. From this answer it is clear that Bulgaria, the Bulgarian taxpayer will not pay anything for this reinforcement of our own security, nor for our allies who participate with their own forces and resources in the battle group, nor for joint protection of the sky. On the contrary, our allies will pay for our security, which is called union solidarity. Allow me to express my conviction that Bulgaria has no other option to rapidly increase its security at this time of war a few hundred kilometers away. The only way this is going to happen is through our allies, and if someone says otherwise and puts it in doubt at this very moment, it is contrary to national interest and creates risks for national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u319	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Georgiev, you're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u320	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We're partially satisfied with him. We are pleased that there is no additional burden on the Bulgarian taxpayer, but we are very worried about the serious deficit, as you said, in the Bulgarian Army, something that is an extremely serious problem, and we of the revival believe that it should be resolved as soon as possible and in the most effective way. We hope that you will make your best efforts in this particular direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u321	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. A hole? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is also from the National Representative Angel Georgiev and concerns the presence of biological laboratories and/or chemical weapons on the territory of the four military bases for joint use of Novo village, Bezmer, Count Ignatievo and Aytos. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u322	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In recent weeks, information has come out, which has also been confirmed by an American country, that there have been biological laboratories in Ukraine, and this information has come out of Russia and China, respectively, which biological laboratories have been funded by the United States Department of Defense. Are there on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria American or NATO chemical or biological laboratories, for example in the MMA or in the territory of the four U.S. military bases in Bulgaria, which you call joint use bases in Novo Selo, Bezmer, Count Ignatievo and Aytos? Given that, according to the contract for the four bases in Bulgaria, the US country can have materials and supplies on our territory without asking us, and the traffic to and from the bases is not controlled by Bulgaria, please provide information: is there biological laboratories or other research centres available in the country, or is there also chemical weapons available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u323	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u324	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Georgiev! I have to be frank about this when I read the question, I was deeply surprised, and not only as a defence minister, but also as a diplomat with 20 years of experience in the field of international security. The Republic of Bulgaria signed and ratified the entry into force in 1975. The year I was born, by the way, the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Storage of Biological Toxic Weapons and its Destruction. The Convention only allows the use of bacteriological biological agents and toxins for peaceful purposes, including the production of vaccines that save lives. Every year the Republic of Bulgaria through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepares and sends a National Report on the Implementation of this Convention and the sites are also subject to inspection by international teams. Secondly, the Republic of Bulgaria signed and ratified the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Destruction in 1997. In 2000, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a law banning chemical weapons. This law introduces a prohibition on the development, production and use of chemical weapons and lays down the conditions and procedures for carrying out activities with toxic chemicals and their precursors which are subject to international control in accordance with the Convention. These are again international inspections, some of them surprising. The Republic of Bulgaria shall, on an annual basis, send a National Report, provide information on the type and quantities of toxic chemicals and their precursors, which are stored and used by the Ministry of Defence and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. The chemical substances stored in these structures shall be used for training and training of chemical compartments and for carrying out a test of the working conditions of nuclear, chemical and biological protection equipment. These are substances authorised under the Convention and under strict control, including, as I said earlier, international inspections. I would like to point out that since the entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in 1997 there have been three known cases of chemical weapons use in violation of the Convention. These violations are from the regimes of Saddam Hussein, Bashar al-Assad and Vladimir Putin. The latter is in Europe's territory. In addition, in the Agreement signed on 28 April 2006, between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation under art. 29 The Parties agree to implement this Agreement in a manner compatible with the protection of the environment, public health and safety. The United States confirms its commitment to comply with the relevant Bulgarian legislation, regulations and standards in the field of environmental protection, health and safety in the implementation of its policy. In this sense, on the territory of the agreed facilities and facilities for joint use: School polygon "New village ", including the storage facilities in Aytos, Military Air Base ". Bezmer, and Military Air Base ". Graff Graff Ignatievo, there could not be any biological laboratories or chemical weapons located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u325	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u326	Dear Minister, since the answer is negative, please reply accordingly: how can we verify this information when we do not have access to these facilities that you call for joint use, and since US legislation is valid on the bases, and the United States is the only country that has not yet fulfilled its obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention and has not eliminated its national arsenals of chemical weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u327	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. If you'd like a doppelganger, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Georgiev, this is verified by virtue of the conventions themselves. This is done with inspection teams that are international.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, the Bulgarian law applies in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including within the joint facilities. American law applies to American servicemen in them. With regard to the destruction of the chemical arsenal, there are two countries in the world that have not destroyed it under the Convention. These are the United States and the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And the last question to Minister Zakov is from the MP Nikolay Drenchev on the procedure for analysis and evaluation of the proposals before deciding on the conclusion of the package of contracts for the acquisition of F-16 aircraft. Here you are, Mr. Danchev. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u330	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In 2019 was concluded a set of contracts for the purchase of F-16 aircraft and accompanying equipment and armaments at a record value of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the Since Minister Karakachanov, whose signature stands under these contracts, is not an aviation expert, is not a pilot and has hardly decided to make this purchase himself. My question to you is what was the procedure carried out in the Ministry of Defence, perhaps in other departments, where different proposals were evaluated and reached the decision to acquire this particular aircraft in this particular way? Were the tactical-technical and performance characteristics of aircraft analysed by aviation professionals? Have the estimated operating costs been assessed and has it been assessed that the contracts so signed have protected our national interest and will indeed lead to the delivery of the equipment ordered? What were the opinions of the experts before the signing of the deal and whether their recommendations were taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u331	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. You're welcome to answer the question, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Drenchev. If I really have to answer your question in detail, I have nine pages to read. I doubt we'll have enough time for nine pages, though, so I'll try to squeeze it as hard as I can.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u333	You have four or five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u334	First, regarding the procedure. In implementation of an updated project for investment expenditure by the National Assembly, promulgated in the State Gazette "51" of 2018, the Ministry of Defence sent a request for a proposal to Germany, Italy, Israel, Portugal, the United States, France and Sweden in the same year. By order of the Prime Minister, a joint working group has been formed to assess the responses to the request for the submission of the proposal. Within the established time limit of 1 October 2018, replies sent Italy, the United States and Sweden with the following types of aircraft: Italy for a used aircraft, the USA, for new aircraft F-16 Block 70 and F-18 Super Hornet, and Sweden for a new aircraft. Following the initial evaluation of the proposals, the Joint Working Group has prepared a preliminary protocol to the Minister of Defence to assess the responses. In order to improve the proposals sent by order of the Prime Minister, a political-military group has been appointed to conduct consultations with the States. On the basis of the preliminary protocol of the Joint Working Group, the Political-Military Group has raised questions and held meetings with representatives of the three countries. After completion of the work of the Interdepartmental Political-Military Group and the Joint Working Group, the Ministry of Defence has prepared a report to the Council of Ministers with a proposal on how to continue the project itself. Secondly, in terms of expertise. In the composition of the joint working group and the political-military group were appointed representatives of three ministries of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, as well as the SANS, having expertise in all of your fields of use, economy, law. The proposal of the United States was chosen in view of not only the proposed product F-16 Block 70, but mostly with the proposed approach of acquiring overall capability, i.e. aircraft, armaments, training, spare parts, which was missing in the other two offers where the armament or part of it, or part of the equipment of the aircraft had to be acquired on separate contracts by the governments of other countries, in most cases the United States again. The strategic partnership with the United States in the field of security has also been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u336	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. After all, what is the result and where are we? From the investment cost project in question, which carefully analyzes all the possibilities and all the risks of this purchase, we have come to an extremely non-working decision to make sure that the money is gone and that the planes are gone too. Order them in a non-existent factory and wait for unknown time and space when we get some fighting abilities. I see in this an extremely vicious and sinful scheme that somewhere has broken down the chain between good intention and actual execution. Of course, you have nothing to do with it, you have nothing to do with it, but it's in the book of your words, daughter-in-law, think of it, sister-in-law. The Commission therefore concludes that the And you can trust me that if 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The dollar is spent in the same scheme, I very much hope it does not come to that, but I would refer the prosecution to the current government if it did the same way the previous one did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u337	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Would you like a douche? Here you are, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Drenchev, the plant is not nonexistent, let's start there. The factory has already started the assembly line very soon. Secondly, the money is in a trust account and, according to my information, perhaps 90% of it has not even been paid off. This payment depends, of course, on the course of the purchase itself. You know very well that this was the first purchase on the FMS line with the US and the reasons why this purchase could not be paid in part. In international practice, there is no case in which equipment can be acquired and paid afterwards. It is usually paid in the course of acquisition. When ordering new equipment, it is never available, it should still be produced. In this sense, the Kovid epidemic has obviously caused problems with supply chains, and this has inevitably affected such productions. Just to remind you that there was a similar case with the RSK MiG contract, where RSK MiG paid penalties because it was a contract with the company itself, and five of the contracts were negotiated with them so that they could meet them. That was tolerance on our part. So let's not imply that these are non-existent projects, non-existent planes and so on. And today is the first day we have our first pilot who's already graduated as an F-16 pilot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u339	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. And before we proceed with the questions to Minister Yordanova, who is already in the Chamber, I will give Mr. Vigenin the floor to make an announcement regarding the friendship groups that have already been formed. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Friendship groups shall not be voted on, but they shall be declared within a meeting of the National Assembly. That is why I am using this moment to briefly inform who are the guides of the respective groups and membership will be specified in the coming days. I will read the full names of the parties once, and then I will use the cuts to save time. So, friendship groups at the forty-seventh National Assembly. Austrian President Dimitar Nedyalkov, "We are continuing the Change"; Vice-President Borislav Gutsanov, BSP for Bulgaria. Albania's President Ivan Manev, We are continuing the Change. Armenia President Atanas Zafirov, BSP for Bulgaria and Vice-President Petar Milanov. Belarus - Daniel Petrov from the Reconnaissance President; Vice-President Momchil Ivanov from "There is such a people." Belgian President Stanislav Anastasov, Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-President Snezhana Apostolova, We are continuing the Change. Bosnia and Herzegovina President Zarko Marinov, Democratic Bulgaria. We continue the Change. Chairman; Vice-Presidents Dzhevdet Chakarov, Movement for Rights and Freedoms................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Georgia s President Yavor Bozhankov, BSP for Bulgaria and Vice-President Aleksandar Ivanov, GERB-SDS. Greek President Hristo Petrov, "We continue the Change"; Vice-President Tsveta Galunova, Revival. Danitsa Sacheva, GERB-SDS "President; Vice-President Petar Kosev, "We are continuing the Change." Estonian President Rosen Zhelyazkov, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Stoil Stoilov, We continue the Change. Ireland - President Ventsislava Lyubenova - We are continuing the Change. Inna Ivanova, President of Spain We are continuing the Change; and Nikolina Angelkova, GERB-SDZ; Fatme Ramadan, Movement for Rights and Freedoms Italian President Kristian Vigenin, BSP for Bulgaria. Vice-Presidents Yordan Tsonev, Movement for Rights and Freedoms.Dani Kanazireva, GERB-SDS, Tsvetelina Zarkin. Cyprus.. Maria Belova, GERB-SDS. Chairman; Vice-President Mihail Kambarev,..We continue the Change. Kosovo President Ekaterina Zaharieva, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Bogomil Petkov, Latvia President Ivan Dimitrov, Democratic Bulgaria. Lithuania "President Denitsa Simeonova," "We are continuing the Change." The Republic of Northern Macedonia.. President Alexander Alexandrov,.There is such a people.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Malta - President Tsoncho Ganev, Revival; Vice-President Nikolay Radulov, There is such a people. Moldova - President Filip Popov, BSP for Bulgaria. Vice-Presidents Snezhana Apostolova. We are continuing the Change.We are continuing the Change.Vasil Zashkev, "Democratic Bulgaria." The Netherlands "Elisaveta Belobradova," "Democratic Bulgaria" "President; Vice-Presidents Denitsa Nikolova, GERB-SDS; Pavlin Krastev, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" ; Dimitar Gochev, "We continue the Change." Norwegian President Tomislav Donchev, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Nikolay Angov, "We are continuing the Change." United Kingdom President Daniel Mitov, GERB-SDS; Vice-Presidents Stoil Stoilov, Polish President Andrey Mihaylov, There is such a people. Portugal President Nikolina Angelkova, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Tatiana Sultanova, Romanian President Stoyan Georgiev, "We are continuing the Change"; Vice-President Emil Georgiev, "BSP for Bulgaria." Russian President Petar Kanev, BSP for Bulgaria and Vice-Presidents Nikolay Drenchev, Revival; Yuri Kozlov, We continue the Change. Slovak President Krasimir Valchev, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Hristo Simeonov, We continue the Change. Slovenian President Toshko Yordanov, There is such a people; Vice-President Julia Ivanova, We are continuing the Change. There is such a people. Chairman; Vice-Presidents Rositsa Kirova, GERB-SDS; Boyko Klechkov, BSP for Bulgaria Turkish President Ahmed Ahmedov, Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-Presidents Aleksandar Simov, BSP for Bulgaria and Antonia Dimitrova. Ukraine screen Mitev,.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Hungarian President Venko Sabrutev, "We are continuing the Change"; Vice-President Petar Nikolov, GERB-SDS. Finland "President Michal Kambarev, " We are continuing the Change. French President Dragomir Stoynev, BSP for Bulgaria. Vice-Presidents Iliana Zhekova, GERB-SDZ; Mukaddes Nalbant, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms"; Borislav Antonov. Croatia supplied by Angel Georgiev; Vice-President Rositsa Kirova, GERB-SDS. Montenegro - President Ivan Petkov, BSP for Bulgaria and Vice-President Desislava Trifonova, GERB-SDS. The Czech Republic - Alexander Rakshiev, "We continue the Change"; Vice-President Iskra Mihaylova, Revival. Switzerland "St. Alexandra Milcheva, "We are continuing the Change"; Momchil Ivanov, "There is such a people" "Vice-President." Swedish President Rumen Hristov, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Miroslava Petrova, Australia "President Jordan Terziyski," "We continue the Change"; Snezhana Trajanska, "There is such a people" "Vice-President." Azerbaijan President Hamid Hamid, Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-Presidents Temenuzhka Petkova, GERB-SDS; Marin Shishev, Afghan President Jayhan Ibryamov, Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Bangladesh President Yordan Madhunkov, We are continuing the Change. Vice-Presidents Blagovest Kirilov, Vice-Presidents Stoyan Mihalev, Vice-Presidents Blagovest Kirilov, BSP for Bulgaria and Milen Mateev. Israeli President Georgi Georgiev, There is such a people. There are Vice-Presidents Radomir Cholakov, GERB-SDZ; Dimitar Gochev, We are continuing the Change. India. "Milko Penev, "We are continuing the Change.. Chairman; Vice-President Lachezar Ivanov, GERB-SDS. Indonesia "Asen Baltov," GERB-SDS "President; Vice-Presidents Nebius Kabak, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" ; Iskren Arabadzhiev, "We are continuing the Change." Iraqi President Daniel Mitov, GERB-SDS; Vice-Presidents Escheref Escheref, Iranian President Ramadan Atalay, Movement for Rights and Freedoms.Victoria Vassileva, Vice-Presidents There is such a people.Daniel Mitov, GERB-SDZ; Nastimir Ananiev, We continue the Change. Mr. Jordan, President Ilian Yonchev, BSP for Bulgaria. Kazakhstan "Peter Chobanov, Movement for Rights and Freedoms" - President; Vice-Presidents are Venko Sabrutev, "We are continuing the Change"; Vladimir Marinov, "BSP for Bulgaria." The President of Cambodia Manoil Manev, GERB-SDS. Qatar President Victor Nasser, We continue the Change; Vice-President Elhan Kulkov, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms." China President Plamen Nikolov, There is such a people; Vice-Presidents Veska Nencheva, BSP for Bulgaria and Gergana Daneva. The President Ilin Dimitrov, we are continuing the Change. The President of the DPRK Yordanka Kostadinova. We are continuing the Change. Kuwait President Plamen Abrovski, ITH; Vice-President Hayri Sadakov, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms." President Krasimir Sabev, GERB; Vice-President Ivaylo Shotev, Mongolia "President Desislava Atanasova," GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Kalin Ivanov, ARCHIVE CONTACTANT Konstantin Bachiiski, We are continuing the Change; Vice-President Zhecho Stankov, GERB-SDS. Pakistan, President Radoslav Vassilev, We are continuing the Change. President Georgi Mihaylov, President of Palestine, BSP for Bulgaria. President Halil Letifov, Deputy Presidents Desislava Atanasova, GERB-SDS; Ekaterina Dimitrusheva, We continue the Change. Saudi Arabia - Chairman Svetlin Stoyanov, There is such a people. There is one; Vice-President Delyan Dobrev, GERB-SDS. There is such a people. The President of Thailand Toma Bikov, GERB-SDS. Ihsan Hakka, Chairman, Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Uzbekistan President Rosen Kosturkov, "We continue the Change"; Vice-President Adlen Shevked, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms." Japan President Krum Zarkov, BSP for Bulgaria and Vice-Presidents Alexander Nenkov, GERB-SDZ; Alizan Yahova, Movement for Rights and Freedoms Argentina President Rositsa Kirova, GERB-SDZ; Vice-Presidents Zlatomira Mostrova, There is such a people. Brazil "President Vasil Stefanov, "We are continuing the Change"; Vice-President Maya Dimitrova, "BSP for Bulgaria." Venezuela - President Stoyan Taslakov, Revival. Ecuador? Chairman Mumun Mumun, Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Canadian President Alexander Simidzhiev, "Democratic Bulgaria" ; Vice-Presidents Pavel Hristov, GERB-SDS; Alexander Rakshiev, "We are continuing the Change." The President of Colombia, Sevim Ali, Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-President Andrei Chorbanov, has such a people. Cuba President Rumen Gechev, BSP for Bulgaria and Vice-Presidents Petar Petrov, Revival; Yordanka Kostadinova, "We are continuing the Change." Mexico President Atanas Mihnev, We continue the Change. U.S. President Kaloyan Ikonomov, "We Continue the Change"; Vice-Presidents Daniel Mitov, GERB-SDS; Mustafa Karadayi, "Movement for Rights and Freedoms." The President Erjan Ebattin, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Chili President Ivan Totev, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Georgi Stamov, We continue the Change. Algeria President Vladislav Panev, "Democratic Bulgaria." Vice-President Mladen Zapreyanov, "We are continuing the Change." Egyptian President Lyuben Dilov, GERB-SDZ; Vice-Presidents Andrey Mihailov, There is such a people. Mr. Ekaterina Dimitrusheva, Mr. We continue the Change; Vice-President Vladislav Panev, Mr. Democratic Bulgaria. Guinea President Victor Nasser, We are continuing the Change. Morocco - Krasen Kralev, GERB-SDZ; Vice-Presidents Ivan Chenchev, BSP for Bulgaria Nigeria "President Vladimir Panev," "Democratic Bulgaria" ; Vice-President Milko Penev, "We are continuing the Change." Republic of South Africa - President Kostadin Angelov, GERB-SDS. Sudan President Bajram Bajram, Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Vice-President Zlatomira Mostrova, There is such a people. Tsunijay Nankov, GERB-SDZ; Vice-President Zornitsa Stratieva, "Democratic Bulgaria." Uganda "President Peter Kulenski, " We continue the Change. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups and colleagues for their cooperation and the civilised way in which we have come up with this result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u341	And thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We're moving on to parliamentary control. Colleagues, the first question is from the MP Desislava Atanasova on the Central Register of Special Bets at the Ministry of Justice. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, first of all, I am making clear that my question is asked on 10 January, we are now 8 April and I do not know how relevant it is to the state in which the Central Register of Special Bets is located to the Ministry of Justice, but I will now hear the answer. I have seen it in the context that, under the provisions of the Special Bets Act, the Central Register of Special Bets at the Ministry of Justice on 1 January was to move on to the Registry Agency. On 10 January, when I asked this question, the local register offices of the Central Register of Special Bets in the country were still accepting applications for entries and certificates, and confirmations for entry, certificates and references were given. In this regard, I repeat on 10 January, I have asked you why the requirements of the Law are being violated and within what time will the Central Register of Special Bets of the Ministry of Justice switch to the Registry Agency. I would remind Members of the plenary and viewers that from 1 January 2022, the Central Register of Special Bets had to move on to the Registry Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, this is my third attempt to answer that question. The previous two times, you just weren't in the gym. Specifically on the facts, yes, indeed under the Special Bets Act, the Central Register for Special Bets of 1 January 2022 was to be part of the Registry Agency. As you well know, I entered as Minister of Justice on 13 December 2021. What have I established that on this date there is neither legal nor technical nor resource security for this to happen. The Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency have not been amended, a number of regulations have not been amended. The register itself as a software product was not made. This debate we've had with you in this room. All these circumstances have been clarified in the context of the amendments to the Special Bets Act, which I have proposed and which I very much dissatisfiedly explained to you, which provide that all these things, namely the Central Register for Special Bets, will move on to the Registry Agency from 1 January 2023, and I have a schedule that ensures that this will happen. I understand your concerns and the occasion that caused your question, but why was this question not addressed to the previous ministers of justice?! To recall that the norms were introduced in the Special Bets Act in 2016 and this is one of the good things Minister Zaharieva did. These amendments were to be in force and to be in effect in 2019. Then you postponed them for another two years and by 2021, at the end again, the necessary preparation was not carried out. Not only was it not done, but only the caretaker government had begun to prepare for it. As I said, I have a schedule, moving in time so that on 1 January 2023 there will be no further delay. Very soon you will debate in this Chamber and new amendments to the Law on Special Bets, which protect to a greater extent the personal data of persons involved in the registration proceedings, because the way in which you have adopted the Law in 2016, 2019 does not sufficiently protect personal data. And if the Law had been implemented as it is, we would have witnessed the situation that was in the Trade Register with unbiased access to all personal data, including handwritten signatures and other personal data items of the persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u345	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Atanasova, you have a chance to make a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! First, just one word on this conclusion that you have already been here for the third time to answer. Madam Minister, parliamentary control according to the arrangement always begins with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers, and unfortunately, I, too, have been more than three months since I asked this question, I have not been able to meet with you to debate this issue, because the President is putting this issue at the end of parliamentary control. However, as it turns out, this does not lose from its actuality, because still the topic of the transition of the Central Register of Special Bets to the Registry Agency is up-to-date and the Law is not implemented. I thank you for making a retrospective of the amendments to the Law and distinguished the credit of Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva with regard to the change in the Law and the transition of the Central Register to the Registry Agency. But I would like to remind you that for one year GERB has not managed, you know that. Unfortunately, the ministers of the service were obviously focused on everything else, but not on their direct commitment and implementation of the Law, i.e. the minister of the service. He is only one who is now a constitutional judge, and implementation of the Law, as provided for in 2019. I can say that you will find our support and understanding if you take any concrete steps, including in ensuring the protection of personal data of all persons who submit notifications or any other documents relating to the registration proceedings under this law. Because, yes, and during the debate, when personal data were leaked by the Registry Agency of thousands of people, we have told you that we will support you for all the steps to ensure the protection of personal data. So you have my word that we will do it in connection with the Special Bets Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Just to be clear, I didn't put your question back. It's going into normal rotation. The Minister was here twice and you wouldn't have asked your question. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the possibility of a duplicate to clarify once again this fact that there has been no unauthorised leak of personal data from the Registry Agency. It was about the implementation of a bad legislative solution, again adopted during GERB. And I, when we were discussing right here the relevant legislative amendments to resolve this issue, thanked everyone and again thanked all the MPs for the support, so that we could then, within a very rapid order, remove this poor legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. The next question is from the People's Representative Gunay Hewesmen on an terminated competition for the appointment of a state service, the Isperih Probation Service, to the Regional Service......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you go, Mr Hughesman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u350	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is on the occasion of the announced and held competition for the position of Inspector at the Probation Service "Isperih" unit, at the Regional Service "Execution of Punishments" "Razgrad," at the District Office "Execution of Punishments" of Veliko Tarnovo, and a competition commission appointed by order of the Deputy Minister of Justice on the basis of an application from Ivelina Ivanova, No 4012, from 29 September 2021 and the announced final ranking of the three exams held with a total ball of Ivelina from 59.7 points. I am very concerned about the subsequent development of the case. I'm gonna cut my fair short so I can save time. The fact that the day after the appearance of the candidate Ivanina Ivanova in front of the ten-member examination committee and the announcement of the final ranking of the winning contest in her face is removed from office the director of the EASIN, Veliko Tarnovo. However, a little later the competition was cancelled on the grounds that Ivanina Ivanova's medical certificate did not meet the specific requirements, although the same was submitted by her in time and was adopted by the Commission. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: First, if the medical certificate of the candidate Ivanina Ivanova did not meet the specific requirements, why has this not been announced initially, and you have allowed her to pass all competition exams with the highest score, which is officially announced in the final ranking? Secondly, do you consider it an honorable plea for termination of the contest described in Order No HR 05 14 of 9 February 2022, according to which the set of application documents of Ivanina Ivanova is not attached a letter-action, since in the documents previously announced by you this direction does not appear anywhere and is not mandatory for admission to a contest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u351	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the present case, it is a competition procedure for the appointment of an employee at the General Directorate of Punishment. I, as a minister in my actions, am bound by the requirements contained in the Rules on the appointment of a State Service in the Directorate General for Punishment and the General Directorate for Security to the Minister of Justice, which were confirmed by an order in July 2021. Under these rules, as well as under the Ministry of Interior Act, candidates, when participating in such competitions, may appeal the final ranking by filing a complaint within three days before the Minister of Justice. The complaint shall be dealt with by the Ministry and, in the event of the detection of infringements which cannot be resolved, the contest shall be cancelled, such are simply the rules. In this case, the competition started in September 2021, several persons appeared, the list was announced on the official website of 4 January 2022. On 7 January, a complaint was lodged with the Minister of Justice and, after being examined, it was found that the complaint was justified because substantial infringements of the procedural rules which could not be corrected were committed. During the verification it is established that the candidate Ivanina Ivanova has submitted her documents on the last day of the deadline. [[Heckling]] Excuse me? A technical error has been made in the medical certificate, stating that it applied for a junior inspector, corrected and indicated the correct position of the inspector and this non-compliance has not been considered material. This mistake did not prevent Mrs. Ivanova from participating. The reason for the termination of the procedure is, as you pointed out in your statement, the lack of one document, namely a direction that serves to appear before an expert medical committee for issuing the candidate for medical certification. The document is issued by the bodies in which the documents for participation in the competition are submitted and this is written in the established rules. This document is the legal basis for issuing the relevant medical document without it it cannot be assumed that there is a legal procedure. Specifically, your questions. Firstly, about the actions of the competition committee itself. The Commission acts independently in the course of the procedure, the Minister cannot and should not interfere with the work of the relevant members of the competition committee, so I cannot tell in the course of its work exactly what happened. That is why the follow-up control for the legality of the Commission's work is provided, namely on an alert, for an examination to be carried out in the event of a complaint but after the end of the contest. There is no way to carry out this check within the contest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yes, very quickly. As regards your second question, as I said, the document in question is contained in the rules, so it was not necessary to be in the initial act of the competition procedure. At present, a new contest has not been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u353	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr Hughesman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u354	Dear Minister, it was no accident that I mentioned in my statement the word integrity, because from your reply I understood that these two motives are insignificant to stop the competition or cancel. Second, a respectable woman filed her papers, won her pageant, quit her job and is currently unemployed because of everything that's happened. It's also a human tragedy. At the same time, it was no accident that I said that I was impressed, as I know the conversation between the Director of the Directorate-General for Punishment and the already released person in question, the Director of the OSIN, Veliko Tarnovo, I know what he said to the competition committee, I know what he wanted, but after this was not done, it was released the very next day and was forced to submit an application for exit. There are other things I don't want to mention right now. He's got other organs, we'll notify the competent authorities. But I believe that once you have been stained with that word integrity during the elections, which, unfortunately, is less and less used or almost no longer used by the government, I intend to respectfully look again at your cancellation order and to correct yourself, and if it is possible to appoint the person who has honestly won the contest, because it is about a junior expert, it is not about some important post. Since I truly believe in you that you are the Minister of Justice, you will do the right thing to get things into their normal merlot. Thank you, however, hoping to correct. Since the order, notice, your order to stop the competition has not yet been posted on the page of the Directorate General "Execution of Punishments" there is no date announced for a new contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u355	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Hughesmen, once again, to note that, yes, two violations have been found, one is considered minor, but the other is considered a major violation of the procedural rules. I have saved myself the question, which is this: how do we have medical certification and it is presented without having the first one, a document? How exactly does this happen? This is a major violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u357	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. With this we have exhausted the questions to the Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u358	Is Rashkov coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u359	As much time as we have left, Mr. Ahmedov, I think we will run out of questions to Nikolai Subev and then to Bozidar Bojanov. Then there are nine questions to the Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov and then the questions to Boyko Rashkov. I apologize. Question from the National Representative Branimir Balachev concerning freighter Vera Su. Here you are, Lord Balachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u360	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Subev that after 52 days we have found the time to make this visual meeting and, after all, society, not only the MPs, but also the Varna public to receive an answer to the questions related to the accident of the Turkish ship. Only for colleagues I would remind that on 20 September 2021 due to mistakes of the crew there was a severe accident actually...................... on this cargo ship 3,000. Tones in the cliffs near the area of Yaylata and one of the most visited and most beautiful areas of the Northern Black Sea coast, and immediately afterwards the alarming fact that this ship is actually loaded with 3,000 tonnes of urea, is a chemical compound extremely rich in nitrogen, which according to marine flora and fauna specialists stated that under certain conditions this nitrogen, when concentrating and lifting the water temperature, could be extremely dangerous for both flora and fauna. In this regard, and in view of the public's concern, several questions arose: The first question was why the ministry of custody, you were not a minister at this time, but anyway the responsibility is for the Ministry and the Maritime Administration, which is a structure of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, for nearly two months did not take urgent action, in accordance with the Law on the Code of Commercial Maritimeing and other regulations, that ship should be taken out of this state in which it is in this dangerous area, and to take action to minimize the damage it carries with it, will bring to the environment? Apart from that, after the public reacted very violently and urgent measures were taken, a withdrawal was carried out only at the beginning of November 2021, and according to the information that I have and not only myself is that this 3,000. the tons of urea have actually flown mainly into the Varna and Beloslav Lake, as that part of the cargo that remained unscathed during its transport to the dry dock of the military enterprise, which is for repairing ships near Beloslav, in fact, what is left has been washed and thrown back into the waters of the Beloslav Lake. These, by the way, closed water pools, unlike the sea, cannot accept such a large amount of nitrogen and have definitely contributed to damage to flora and fauna in this region. In this regard, my questions to you, Minister, are as follows: First, what caused this unjustified delay for nearly two months? Who are the guilty persons? Are you being punished? And have they been asked for both financial and disciplinary and potential criminal liability? Apart from that, it is said that the cost of taking this ship out...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u361	The weather, Mr. Balachev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u362	...in the area, closing, Mr. Chairman, is over 3.5 million. BGN, as the value of the ship itself after the insurance company refused to pay for the damage that this ship and this catastrophe did to Varna and the region, have failed, the value of this ship does not exceed 700 thousand. lv.? In other words, there is a voidness or a crime in service of considerable proportions, that is, the difference of over 3 million is lost. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u363	Mr. Balachev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u364	I ask in this regard: Did you seek financial responsibility, did you alert the prosecution and last but not least... (Reply from "Keep the Change.") Don't interrupt me, please, I'd be done by now...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u365	Mr. Balachev, four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u366	I'd have finished by now. Five or two, I know. You're five people all here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u367	Mr. Balachev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u368	...and by the way, it's embarrassing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u369	Mr. Balachev, concentrate on the matter...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u370	...that out of 134 you, who, so-called, rule us, have only nine. [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u371	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u372	Has a check been carried out regarding nitrogen content in the territory of Varna and Beloslav Lake and if it has been carried out, what are the results of it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u373	Here you are, Mr. Subev, for your answer. I just want to make it clear that the question you asked... [[Heckling]] Colleagues, stop the discussion. Please hold, Mr. Minister, for a moment. [[Heckling]] Guys, that's enough discussion. I think we've sorted that out. I just want to say, Mr. Balachev, in the question you asked, you asked: it is not clear where 200 tons of urea have been landed, where and how many of the other 2,800 tons of urea have been unloaded. [[Heckling]] Yes, but within the exhibition, you've expanded the scope of the matter quite a bit. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u374	Let me know where he is. I'll see him myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u375	Okay. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u376	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I understand that this is a public interest and I will give the answer to the question in the way it is asked in advance. I promise, if the answer does not contain this information that you have further requested from me, you will receive it in writing or orally, as you are comfortable. It's okay for me to come here and answer your questions. I'm sorry it happened a little longer, but it has to do with other state affairs. Regarding the answer to Question No. 1. The reasons for failure to take immediate measures by the state authorities for the removal of a motor ship is as follows: In view of the fact that there was no immediate danger to the environment as a result of the initial obstruction of the ship, the obligation to remove the vessel belongs to the vessel owner and at that stage the intervention of the public authorities was not necessary. Orders have been issued by the Director of the Directorate of the Maritime Administration and the master of the port with mandatory orders of the vessel owner to present a plan for the withdrawal of the sedentary ship. Due to the failure to take the necessary action by the vessel owner and the failure to submit an adequate plan for the withdrawal of the vessel within the time limit set for that period, by order of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications of 26 September 2021, it is ordered that the competent state bodies take immediate action on the release of the vessel. On the same day, an order was issued to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration for the immediate removal of the sunk property in order to prevent pollution of the marine environment. During the day of 27 September 2021, the ship's fuel drain operation was carried out and nearly 10 tonnes were drained. In view of the estimated deterioration of weather conditions the same night a ship landing operation was launched, which lasted approximately two hours before being terminated by an order of the Minister for Environment and Water. Next week's weather conditions do not allow the safe conduct of further action. Answer to Question 1.1. The cost of the costs incurred by the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration and the State Enterprise of Port Infrastructure and the operation for the withdrawal and removal of the motor ship of Vera Su is total value of BGN 2 897 685,77. with VAT. A procedure has been initiated for reimbursement of the costs incurred and an agreement has been concluded with a law firm to bring an insurance claim for the collection of the expenses incurred by the Republic of Bulgaria. Answer to question number two. In the process of carrying out the ship's release operation from its obstruction on the underwater cliffs, safe dragging through the territorial sea and placing it on land, it has been relieved of its weight in six stages: 1. Exhausting fuel lubricants from the ship; 2. Unloading a solid fraction through a shipping platform barge to the port of Varna. 3. Drainage of the liquefied fraction from the ship's hold and through inflated barges transfer into tanker wagons located on board the ferry Varna; 4. Deployment of a solid fraction after the ship's mooring in the area of the Shipreinforced Factory (Odesos); 5. Unloading of liquid fraction and overloading of liquid fraction in tanker wagon located in port Varna 6. The final landing of a solid fraction after the ship was re-hired at the Shipreinforcement Factory (Flottian arsenal). The hard faction was concluded on 21 and 22 December 2021 from the specified areas to the recipients of the cargo. The liquid fraction is located in the tanker wagon located in the area of the ferry complex and the port of Varna. For the purpose of its safe disposal, a procedure shall be carried out for the selection of a licensed company to carry out the activity. The cargo was not poured into Varna and Beloslav Lake.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u377	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u378	On the first question, I have four sentences, and I'm very sorry, but it's good to answer. Due to the lack of indication of environmental pollution, no further measurements have been carried out at the request of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration after 20 September 2021 on the presence of increased nitrogen content in the area of the accident in the area of Yaylata. The collection of information on urea and measurements for its concentration in the marine environment are carried out by the bodies of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region with daily monitoring and sampling. The low levels of urea in the area have dissolved, dissipated and the solutions resulting from contact with marine water have not produced negative effects in the long and medium term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u379	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Balachev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u380	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In some ways, I have received information that has definitely not been made public so far, and at least I do not know, I have been dealing with this issue for a long time about where, how and in what way you claim that this thing has happened. In this regard, I would like to disprove you in just a few points, and in relation to the other statements you make to us today, I would really like a written reply with accompanying documents to it. The two barges that were given in the ship as soon as it was in the Yaylata, were actually shipwrecked, and in fact 400 tonnes of the overloaded, as you say, Mr. Minister, urea actually poured it out at the beginning of the Varna Lake. So I do not know that there was also a unloading of dry mass, since the information that was public is that the entire ship was flooded with water and actually dry mass, that is, a dry load had not remained. Therefore, I would like to receive the exact documents from you, including when, where and how this dry mass has been transmitted, and how much of them I would be able to carry out an inspection, and if what you say is not the case, I will alert the competent authorities to that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u381	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. Will there be an asshole, Mr. Subev? Okay, you will provide further information. Thank you. We are now moving on to a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev concerning the implementation of signed additional agreements to Contract No 74 of 22 April 2021 between the Bulgarian Road Transport Company and the Vagon Factory of Intercom. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the question here is related to the BDZ and to two contracts that challenge our interest. In connection with the Additional Agreement No 1 to the Treaty No 74 of 22 April 2021 signed on 3 February 2022 between the BDZ Passenger Transport Ltd and the Wagon Factory of Intercom., as well as with the Additional Agreement to the Treaty No 285 of 23 December 2019 signed on 22 December 2021 between the Please provide me with the following information: are the contracts mentioned, and if not, why? The Director-General of the BDZ Holding has allowed this to happen, respectively, the renovated wagons under the second contract are certified and will they be able to move outside the country, for example on the train composition in the Sofia direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u383	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u384	Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mirchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After a public procurement contract was concluded No 285 of 23 December 2019 between BDZ On 21 December 2021 was signed Additional Agreement to the Treaty and advance payment of an amount of BGN 3 407 838. without VAT for repair of 2 electric locomotives. Currently under the Additional Agreement, an amount of BGN 7 512 799 has been paid. with VAT, which is formed by the increase in unforeseen repair activities as necessary and the advance payment for the repair of 2 electric locomotives. By my order, an internal audit on the legality of the Additional Agreement concluded, as a result of which it was found that substantial conditions under this contract have been changed and further amended, namely: an extension of the contract period of 180 days is introduced; the cost of unforeseen repairs is increased, if necessary, from 20% to 87% of the value of capital repairs; the advance payment of 20% to 100% of the value for the implementation of the capital repair and restructuring activities of 2 electric locomotives is increased. In this way, the requirements of the Public Procurement Act have been violated, according to which, where there is a substantial modification of a public procurement contract by an Additional Agreement and if these additional amended conditions were part of the procedure, the proposed participant should have been removed or led to an extension of the range of potential participants. Following the preparation of the audit report, the same will be sent to the Executive Agency of the State Financial Inspection by competence. Also after the conduct of a public contract through a negotiated procedure without prior invitation was concluded contract No 74 of 22 April 2021 between the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Wagon Factory "Intercom" AD, amounting to BGN 26 697 079. without VAT. On 3 February 2022, an Additional Agreement was signed to the Treaty, taking into account the 6.1% inflation index of the National Statistical Institute for the period April 2021. The increase of the electricity price in December 2021, according to which the advance rate changes from 26% to 30% and the advance under the contract of BGN 6 941 240. is changed to BGN 8 009 123. All other Treaty clauses shall remain unchanged and shall remain effective. Currently there is no payment under the Additional Agreement, I personally stopped it. Under the legality of the conduct of the above-mentioned procurement and the conclusion of the Additional Agreement, internal audits have been carried out which have established breaches. The audit report on the legality of the contract was sent to the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria for competence. By Protocol No 114 of 5 April this year, measures have been taken in connection with the above contract, namely the claim of penalties for delay of 1 million. 67,000. BGN 833. Regarding the question whether the renovated wagons are certified and will be able to move in and out of the country, is not relevant to the same contract, the subject of which is capital repair and reconstruction of 10 electric locomotives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u385	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I must say very sincerely that I am satisfied with the answer and the measures you have taken at the Ministry. For many years BDZ was a bank and corrupt niche, on whichever party it ruled. We have to stop this thing. Let's do everything we can to make sure this practice doesn't go on, to have some modern railways, and I think this style of work is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u387	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Transport Nikolay Subev, who is one of the MPs Nikolay Nankov and Mikhail Iliev about Ruse Airport. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u388	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dear Minister Sabev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The residents of Ruse and the region are in long-standing expectation to restore the civil flights between Ruse and Sofia from Strucklevo Airport. Impulse on the hopes of the Russians to realize their dream you gave them at the meeting in Ruse in December last year, when in the House of Europe, in the presence of the mayor of the city and the Russian public, you said that in April this year the flights will be restored. Then, both I and others present expressed mistrust of the deadlines that you stated, as well as the means that would be necessary to restore normal and safe operation at the airport. In relation to what I said, 2 million were provided by a decree of the Council of Ministers in December 2021. Six hundred thousand. lv. to restore the infrastructure at Ruse Airport and ensure its operational suitability. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible for the development of state policy in the field of air transport, providing the necessary funding and carrying out expertise and control in its operation and implementation. The initial deadline for modernisation of the airport is currently postponed and new deadlines have been made public, namely the end of 2022. Our question is: why has Ruse Municipality not yet started modernisation activities at Ruse Airport, what are the reasons for the delay, and why the Ministry of Transport and Communications for three months has not implemented effective support and control of Ruse Municipality and has allowed such a critical delay in the implementation of the site; is there any deliberate subjective reason in the delay in the implementation of the facility in secured funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u389	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Here you are, Mr. Subev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u390	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Iliev, by decision of 19 December 2014, the Council of Ministers transferred Ruse Airport to Ruse Municipality. By the same decision of the Municipality of Ruse was transferred the commercial company "Letishte Ruse" Ltd, which is an airport operator at the airport. With these two acts the entire procedure was completed and the full opportunity was given to Ruse Municipality to manage and develop Ruse Airport. On my proposal, the Council of Ministers approved an additional transfer for 2021 amounting to 2 million. 665 thousand. 500 leva. This money is needed to complete the infrastructure restoration activities at Ruse Airport and ensure its operational suitability, which the Municipality has not yet invested in the airport. From the second half of 2021 until now, representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and of the General Directorate of Transport and Aviation Administration are actively involved in working meetings and provide the necessary professional guidance to restore and improve the infrastructure of Ruse Airport. We are constantly in contact with the mayor of Ruse Municipality and are looking for all possible solutions to speed up the process for the airport to start functioning properly. We are looking for different options, such as the last option, which is not related to specific legal changes to the Civil Aviation Act, was to return ownership to the scope of the Ministry of Transport and Communications so that we can immediately proceed to investment and recovery of this airport. As you can see, on the part of Ruse Municipality, in the face of the mayor of the municipality, and in our face we have not suspended communication and we have always sought the possible solutions so that this airport can start operating quickly. I am convinced that we will also find a good solution in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u391	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Here you go, Mr. Iliev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u392	Thank you, Mr. Subev. I will only read as a result of media publications. According to the municipality there is a transfer of the ball between Ruse Municipality and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance says they have implemented the necessary support to take the necessary measures. It's about state aid, it's probably the problem that can't be protected by Ruse's colleagues. In any case, we will want to do this as quickly as possible, we will insist on lawmakers from the 19th Multiannual Region in the fastest way to resolve things, as indeed Ruse Airport is necessary for the citizens of Ruse and the region. And we would be grateful if this was implemented as quickly as possible, as there are other problems that are in the Council of Ministers in the mayor's words. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u393	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Would you like a double, Mr. Subev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u394	I would like to make it clear that, at the request of the Mayor of Ruse Municipality, we have provided contact with the Ministry of Finance, and it is so that he can prepare his documents and the Municipality can apply to the European Commission so that the amount provided by the State of the Municipality is not considered State aid. I suppose it was not too late for the mayor of Ruse to prepare the documents with the support of experts from the ministries of transport and finance, which has never been refused and to move them to the European Commission. This is a slower period, this is the last information we received from the Ministry of Finance and personally from Mayor Pencho Milkov. That's why we started looking for faster options. Media publications are related to a poorly thought-out report that is related to suggesting doubt about the possibility of the Ministry of Transport dealing with the task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u395	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this we have exhausted the questions to the Minister of Transport Nikolay Subev and I think we have enough time to run out of the only question to Bozhidar Bozhanov. The issue is from the MPs Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Petkov on guaranteeing freedom of speech. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u396	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, on 31 March 2022 the access through the networks of all mobile operators in Bulgaria to certain websites on the Internet, such as tass.ru, ria.ru and others, was limited, without it being clear on what principle this happened. At the same time, the versions of the telecoms and state institutions differ greatly. In front of "Capital" "Vivacom" and "A1" claim that they have suspended access to Russian sites because of a decision of 27 February of the Ministry of Electronic Governance and DGBOP to block Internet addresses, as well as because of an additional notification received on 17 March, which was sent to all telecoms. The operator Yettel is more specific, claiming that he received three letters from DGBOP, as well as two letters from the Communications Regulation Commission. In a commentary before the same edition you, Minister, deny the Internet addresses of the Russian agencies to be part of the list of 47,000 addresses blocked on 17 March. At the same time, various signals came to us about problems with access to Bulgarian information portals in the period 28 March 31st. We believe that this situation creates a dangerous precedent and please answer us do you have information in the Ministry of Electronic Governance on what basis is access limited and how will you guarantee freedom of speech on the Internet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u397	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u398	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Petkov, the Ministry of Electronic Governance has no authority to block any addresses, IPs, domains and so on. The list that we have drawn up together with DGBOP contains over 45 thousand IP addresses, which are entirely linked to malicious activity and do not contain websites or other sites that provide content. The specific examples that have been listed, such as TASS, RIA and so on, their IPs are not on the list of IPs of the Ministry of Electronic Governance. Why were these sites stopped? This is under the regulation that regulates sanctions. These sites are largely related to the Russian State, i.e. they are state-owned or through related entities of state ownership, and respectively under the regulation the Communications Regulation Commission with the powers granted to them regularly sends a list that it receives from the relevant structures in the European Union, to the telecoms, so that they take the appropriate measures. Yes, there are three letters from DGBOP, there are two letters from CRC. The blocked websites are related to the letters from CRC. The blocked IP addresses, of which there is malicious activity, are jointly with the Ministry of Electronic Governance. So I want to confirm once again the Ministry of Electronic Governance has no power, no intention of blocking Internet content.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u399	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line from Blagovest Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Unfortunately, it is not very clear why they were precisely blocked and leads to the thought of selective blocking of freedom of speech in this case. Why? First of all, you and the Ministry of Electronic Control should be responsible for this control. Secondly, you said they were blocked because they were on a ban list. At the same time, if we try to open them, they are freely available. I mean, what happened to the ban list, was he changed, what happened to him, and how can citizens actually be informed about what is forbidden, why it is forbidden, and who forbids it? I believe that this is a dangerous precedent and there must be clear action by the government so that there is clarity on how freedom of speech is controlled so that there is no arbitrary blocking of information sources, no matter who they are, and therefore what are your actions in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u401	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Bojanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u402	Dear Mr. Kirilov, the Ministry of Electronic Governance cannot control the Communications Regulation Commission, which is an independent regulator. What lists does it receive from European partners and how it communicates with the telecoms, control over it is not within the authority of any executive body. The Communications Regulation Commission is likely to send an inquiry to them to see why and what has been blocked. What I know after an inspection is that the list is not manifest is not public to avoid the risk of being circumvented in certain ways. This is a text from the regulation that regulates sanctions, meaning it is not a decision of the CRC. So freedom of speech is a priority. When it comes to implementing sanctions with a decision of the European institutions, our regulators, which are outside the executive power, have the power to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-08.u403	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have also exhausted the questions to Bozhidar Bojanov. We have also exhausted the time of the meeting, so we will not be able to move on to the questions to the Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. Thank you for coming to today's parliamentary control. We're adjourned. The next meeting will be held on Wednesday at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
