ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u1	Colleagues, please take your seats. Please register. Online today are: Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u3	And Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u4	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u5	Thanks. Abort registration. Registered 187 MPs in the hall and online 2 There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to the agenda, I just need to read you some messages. In connection with an audit awarded to the Court of Auditors by Decision of 25 February 2021 of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 18 of 2 March 2021, by letter of 30 March 2022, the President of the Court of Auditors informed the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 58, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the final audit report on the compliance audit carried out in the conclusion and implementation of contracts under the Public Procurement Act by "Montajs" EAD for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020 and the audit evidence sent to the Prosecutor's Office. Due to pre-trial proceedings and on the grounds of art. 58, para. 3 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, data from the audit report cannot be disclosed until the closure of the criminal proceedings, which is why the audit report will be submitted to the National Assembly immediately after the closure of the criminal proceedings. The letter was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. That was the message. Now we move on to item one of today's agenda, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HEALTH COUNTERPARTY. Report from the Committee on Health on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act No 47-254-01-30, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. Here you are, Professor Tonev, for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow Assistant Professor Vasil Pandov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u7	Thank you, Professor Tonev. [[The Minister of Health Asena Serbenova enters the Chamber.]] Hello, Madam Secretary. A reverse opinion? I won't. We are going to vote on the procedural proposal made by Anton Tonev. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u9	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u11	Thank you. Vote 168 MPs and online 2. total 170: for 158 and 2 online.. 160 total, against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Pandov to the hall. Here you are, Associate Tonev, to brief us on the Health Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Health on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 47-254-01-30, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 29 March 2022, the Health Committee examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, No 47-254-01-30, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. The meeting was attended by the Head of Staff of the Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev, the Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers Ms Mariana Tosheva, representatives of the Bulgarian Red Cross, the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient and non-governmental organizations. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carried out an examination and found that it meets the requirements of the Law on the Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. The draft and the reasons for the bill were presented by associate professor Anton Tonev, who informed the MPs that the proposed legal changes aim to specifically arrange for the health insurance and medical care of foreigners with temporary protection who arrive in the Republic of Bulgaria. Decision No 144 of the Council of Ministers of 10 March 2022 granted temporary protection to displaced persons from Ukraine. These are persons of foreign nationality and stateless persons who left Ukraine as a result of the military actions and entered and remained in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. They are also third-country nationals outside the European Union who do not use the European Union's social coordination systems. Under the current national legislation, foreigners benefiting from temporary protection shall be entitled to medical care in emergency situations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 39, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Asylum and Refugees, and for foreigners from a vulnerable group benefiting from temporary protection, it is envisaged to receive the necessary medical or other services under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure for Bulgarian citizens. 39, para. 3 of the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Prof. Tonev explained that the right to medical care in emergency situations is guaranteed by the provision of art. 100, para. 2 of the Health Act, according to which each medical establishment is obliged to carry out the possible volume of medical activities in an emergency patient regardless of their nationality, address or health insurance status. By doing so, our national legislation guarantees access to emergency medical care for those with temporary protection. He clarified that this is not the case with regard to outpatient and hospital medical care, as well as the provision of medicinal products. The priority is to provide timely and comprehensive assistance to all persons with temporary protection status. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary for these individuals to be able to use full scope of medical care under the conditions and by the order of the Bulgarian citizens, such as refugees and persons with humanitarian status. It is for this purpose that the proposed interrelated changes to the Health Insurance Act, the Health Act and the Asylum and Refugee Act are also proposed. The Bill amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act explicitly states that persons with temporary protection status are necessarily insured in the National Health Insurance Fund. This will create a legal opportunity for these persons to benefit from the full scope of medical care paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. Since the status of temporary protection granted is an exceptional and time-limitable method, which is applied only after a decision of the Council of Ministers and on the basis of a decision of the Council of the European Union, it follows that specific issues relating to the determination of the amount of health contributions of the persons who make them, at the time of the occurrence of the payment obligations and of the rights of insured persons, as well as the sources of funding, should be arranged in a similar manner, namely by an act of the Council of Ministers. As a result of the proposed legal changes, optimal treatment options will be created for those who are currently arriving from Ukraine due to the military conflict in this country, similar to refugees and Bulgarian citizens. From a financial point of view, the alignment of the above categories of persons of the Bulgarian citizens will require the introduction of health insurance, and the size and source of funding will be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers due to the dynamics of the situation and the temporary nature of the measure. The proposed draft shall ensure to the full extent that medical assistance is provided in accordance with the requirements of Council Directive 2001/55/EC on minimum standards for the granting of temporary protection in the event of mass penetration of displaced persons and on measures to maintain the balance between Member States in the effort to receive such persons and to bear the consequences of such admission, by adopting an approach to higher standards for the coverage of healthcare and not only of basic ones under the Directive. This results from the alignment of the persons with temporary protection granted to the Bulgarian citizens by rights and obligations in the field of medical care. In the Committee on Health on the grounds of art. 31, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have received opinions from the Bulgarian Red Cross, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the Committee on Health have received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Agency for Refugees of the Council of Ministers. On the basis of art. 73, para. 10 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly at the meeting were held a public discussion with the participation of representatives of the word, trade union and non-governmental organizations who have provided written opinions on the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Health Act. The Bulgarian Red Cross, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Dental Association, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association express support for the proposed regulatory changes, indicating that this will ensure timely and comprehensive medical assistance to those affected by the war in Ukraine. Some of the opinions contain specific proposals that are outside the scope of the bill under consideration. Associate Professor Vasil Pandov informed the MPs that the Ministry of Health supports the bill under consideration, as it establishes clear rules for the use of medical assistance by foreigners with temporary protection status. This will enable those arriving at the moment from Ukraine to receive the full volume of medical care they need. The Ministry of Finance shall agree on the proposed regulatory changes taking into account the need for legislative changes to settle the status of the different categories of temporary health protection in relation to the implementation of Council Directive 2001/55/EC. At the same time, it is noted that the proposals made concern a permanent framework for all persons seeking or receiving temporary protection under the terms and conditions of the Asylum and Refugees Act, regardless of the specific circumstances and the country from which they come, the opinion of the Minister of Health as the body which defines and regulates health policy should be leading. It is stressed that the proposed changes to create rights of the category of persons concerned by incorporating them into the scope of the health insurance system give rise to additional financial commitments with the corresponding budgetary effects. In this regard, in the context of the rules of art. Art. 19 and art. 119 of the Public Finance Act should be taken into account that, at this stage of the implementation of the budget, financial security opportunities should be sought under the European Union instruments at the expense of prioritisation of expenditure, including in the part of the 110 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 at the expense of cost savings and/or transfers to the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget under the state budget, as well as the expenses of the central budget for implementation of policies under art. 1, para. 5 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, including at the expense of the measures related to COVID-19. The opinion of the National Health Insurance Fund was presented by Professor Salchev. He pointed out that as temporary protection is an exceptional measure granted by the Council of Ministers and refers to persons who do not have the means necessary to pay their medical aid, and in Decree No 17 of the Council of Ministers of 31 January 2007 laying down the conditions and arrangements for the expenditure of the targeted means of diagnosis and treatment in hospital care facilities for persons who do not have income and/or personal property to provide them with personal participation in the health insurance process, the systematic place for the settlement of the receipt of this type of medical care should be in that order. In this way, contradictions will be avoided in special laws relating to the granting of temporary protection, including in the Health Insurance Act. It is underlined that it is necessary to provide for and provide additional funds under the NHIF Budget Act for 2022 to ensure the means of payment of the activities under art. 45 of the Health Insurance Act, as this bill proposes for foreigners benefiting from temporary protection to have rights equal to the Bulgarian citizens for whom the NHIF pays for the contracts concluded with the performers of medical and dental aid, pharmacies and wholesalers and their authorised representatives. Prof. Salchev explained that the written opinion also contained concrete proposals to refine the texts of some of the proposed provisions between the first and second votes of the Bill. The position of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers was presented by Ms Mariana Tosheva, expressing support for the regulatory changes in question. According to the Agency, the current legislation regulating the rights and obligations of persons with temporary protection in the field of health and health insurance is incomplete. The bill provides for an amendment to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, under which persons with temporary protection will be able to benefit from health insurance, affordable medical care and free medical care under the conditions and by the order of the Bulgarian citizens. The changes introduced align the rights in the area of health insurance and the use of medical assistance to persons with temporary protection with those of applicants and beneficiaries of international protection. It has been stressed that these changes are in line with the principle of non-discrimination of the different categories of persons in need of protection. The proposal, by an act of the Council of Ministers, to define the specific issues relating to the determination of the amount of health contributions, the period and order of their introduction, the date from which the obligation to provide health insurance and the rights of the insured person and the source of funding is appropriate as an approach, given that the temporary ban is an instrument for the protection of a certain category of persons provided for in Council Directive 2001/55/EC of 20 July 2001 which is triggered by a decision of the Council of the European Union for each specific case of massive entry of displaced persons from third countries who are not able to return to their home country. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the source of funding for medical aid, which will be granted to persons with temporary protection status, as well as the way in which those persons will receive medicinal products and medical devices which, under the current legislation, are not fully paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the texts of some of the proposed provisions should be refined between the first and second votes of the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Health Insurance Act, No 47- 254-01-30, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 24 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u13	Thank you, Professor Tonev. I am opening a discussion on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Insurance Act. Elena Guncheva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u14	Mr. President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to congratulate the importers of this bill because they have shown how fast the legislation and the legislative process can be. I can only wish for the same speed to be shown when Bulgarian citizens need to be protected and bills to be introduced in their interest. With regard to the Law. I believe that this bill, first of all, is discriminatory. In Bulgaria there are many refugees, there are many people with humanitarian status, there are also persons with temporary protection. As you can see from the motives of the Law, it applies only to refugees from the war in Ukraine. Of course, we as MPs must take care of the people who are in trouble as a result of military action, but I would also like to remind the MPs that health insurance is the result of the contribution of every Bulgarian citizen. This concerns both the state budget and each of us. Hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens are insecure and the state has not taken care of them other than emergency aid. Many Bulgarians die on the threshold of hospitals, many children die because their parents failed to raise money for surgery and treatment abroad. And before helping refugees, it is also good to think about how we help Bulgarian citizens. § 4 of the submitted bill states that Article 4 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the But if we read art. 40, para. 3, he points out: The state budget is secured unless it is secured by the order of para. 1. "I mean the insurance of refugees from Ukraine is evident that it will weigh on the state budget, i.e. all of us. Between first and second readings, we will submit proposals for changes to the Bill, with which these privileges, which are for refugees and persons with humanitarian status and temporary protection, can be used by Bulgarian citizens. I would also like to point out that it is not right for just one type of refugees from war to apply this law. This is discrimination, not only against Bulgarian citizens, but also against other persons who have received similar status on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reasons of the Bill state that this will apply to persons who do not have funds. And I want to ask: how will this be understood, how will we understand these individuals have, or do they have no means of alimony? In what way, since you obviously don't know what the situation is with them at the moment? The other thing I want to say. Ukrainian refugees will receive temporary status, temporary protection under Decision No 122 of 10 March 2022 of the Government for a period of one year. However, as hostilities develop, it is no wonder that this deadline will be extended as well. That is, first of all, to clarify what time these changes will take and the second, we refer to a decision of the Council of Ministers, which is not yet available. It may turn out that we are adopting the Law and a decision of the Council of Ministers on its application will not be there or there will be one that will fully oblige the state budget to take over the maintenance of persons with temporary protection under this law. So I think this bill should be looked at very carefully, and although its direction is correct, I think it needs a very serious revision of the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. A line from Anton Tonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u16	Dear Mr. President, Dear Minister, Dear Mrs. Guncheva, we will certainly comply with all the proposals between the first and second votes that are really aimed at improving the texts. I can now answer some of the questions put, which may not lead to suggestions, but this will, of course, be entirely of your own volition. On a proposal from the Prime Minister of Bulgaria Cyril Petkov in the European Union is currently under discussion, which will seem to be successful and a fund will be created to compensate for the countries that have the greatest costs incurred at the expense of their state budgets, and it is possible that these costs will be largely covered by this fund, from which we will not be donors, but we will receive more money than we will contribute if we submit. With regard to the alleged estimates. Worst-case scenario, it's over 200,000. refugees and possibly all of them wish the status of temporary protection or permanent status of refugees, the maximum amount that the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria can impose is 54 million. lv. For information, currently less than 10% of those crossing the border of the Republic of Bulgaria have requested temporary protection status or refugee status. And as to how we will check the possible incomes of people who have wished to benefit from our health system, and based on a series of publications showing pictures of expensive cars and demonstration of a luxurious lifestyle, I cannot imagine that people who have such a luxurious lifestyle will line up, will fill out documents for hours to receive free health care. I just can't imagine it somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u17	Thank you for the line, Professor Tonev. The second line is from Ilin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To Mrs. Guncheva, some data: 133 thousand. Souls entered, 61,000. leftover, 19,000. registered for asylum that is for one month. In the Syrian crisis, half tried to enter Bulgaria in one year. You can imagine the volume. About Ukraine and that only they will be given such health status. Nowhere in the Law is written that it is only for Ukraine. Everyone seeking refuge in Bulgaria. It's very important that you know that. If he's Syrian, Russian, because we're going to have Russians, and so on. About the luxurious lifestyle, Mrs. Guncheva. None of your representatives, because I was almost every day in the center in Varna, did not see it coming, helping and understanding exactly what kind of people were coming. You also have Varna. The leader of your party is from Varna. Here you go. Look what kind of people are coming. Look at the bus with 20 children with no parents with phone numbers written on the backpack. Phone numbers! 7895 people are under 18 years old. These kids need to get some kind of health care. So it's not about discrimination at all, it's not about the words you said, it's about integrity of these citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Ganev, are you for a line? Make them from different groups. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u20	Mrs. Guncheva, I would like to remind both you and those who are negotiating that above all we are Bulgarians and should look at the Bulgarian national interest. I fully support that at this difficult time everyone who has come to Bulgaria and is running with a backpack on his back, the Bulgarian state should help him, support him and take care of him, but when this assistance is requested. However, when we talk about giving, supporting and paying insurance and taking care of and giving millions against the background of what we have as a financial condition of a huge part of the Bulgarian people fighting for their financial and physical survival, very please consider: in this case, who are the kinder Bulgarians or who were the other people entering Bulgaria? As for this point and what we are changing at the moment only and only because of those who are fleeing Ukraine, it is nice, Mrs. Guncheva, to remind the ultra-volts of the "Democratic Bulgaria" the same thing, that they should also care for the refugees, who for years explained that coming from Syria, Somalia, North Africa and from wherever they went, and wanted all this to be done, did not make the necessary changes, and now only support what will be done for the people coming from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u22	My fellow Members, it is very comforting that the European Union will compensate us. Perhaps in this regard, at some point, you will let us know how far the Recovery Plan has come. I am also very happy that some 54 million for you do not represent any problem in the budget. I'll remind you that it was your group that turned down $6 million for prosthetics for people who couldn't afford them. Then this amount seemed very large to you. Now 54 million seems quite insignificant to you. I will just add that they are from the state budget, therefore from the pocket of every Bulgarian. I will also remind you that children already have health insurance under the provisions in force in the Law. They are not covered by this decision. Since you said it was not only Ukraine, you obviously missed Decision No 144 of 10 March 2022 on granting temporary protection to displaced persons from Ukraine and amending the National Temporary Protection Action Plan in the Republic of Bulgaria. This decision of the Council of Ministers, I remind you, is also in line with Decision Implementing the Council of the European Union No 2022/382 of 4 March this year establishing the existence of a mass penetration of displaced persons from Ukraine. That is, the decision of the Council of Ministers and this bill are exclusively related to the refugees from Ukraine. I say again: we must and must take care of all who flee from war. But I would also ask you not to forget the Bulgarians who sleep on the benches because they are homeless, and the pensioners who count their money, because the change continues at a shock rate and soon will not be able to afford even food and electricity. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. To make a speech, Iskren Mitev, I am recording Dr. Hassan Ademov and Professor Georgi Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wanted to get a line, but I'll do it as a statement. The money and the source you're quoting and what you claim, Mrs. Guncheva, are showing your ignorance. This money will not come from wherever you think it will come from, but from restructuring European funds that cannot be used in any other way. So your claim that they will be taken from the pocket of the Bulgarians is not true at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. The line to Iskren Mitev is from Hristo Gazhev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, by the way, I look at the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the bill in question and read it carefully. Speaking of restructuring European funds and the speeches that preceded your speech, we are talking about a future mechanism that has not even begun to work on paper yet, something official. That is, when you say the examination and restructuring of European funds, you mean from those already granted to Bulgaria or from those to be granted to Bulgaria under a possible mechanism when it is created? Because these are two quite different things, and one of them could create a vacuum by the time it's created.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line from Nikolai Drenchev. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u28	Mr. Mitev, you will, you may be, you may be, you may be, you may be, you may be, those are wishes that may not happen, they may not happen, they may be somewhere far in the future, and the money will have to be given tomorrow as soon as possible and will be given by the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u29	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Is there a third line? I won't. A hole? I won't. Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u30	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Minister, honourable Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund! At our attention is a bill tabled by MPs from the ruling coalition. Why am I emphasizing the ruling coalition? Because it has repeatedly been said that the problems of Bulgarian healthcare can be solved only on the basis of the demand for a non-party consensus. With your approach, the myth of seeking a non-party consensus practically ends now. Why am I saying this? Because if you had invited representatives of the opposition, we would probably have proposed some more sensible solutions than those proposed. Now this discussion should in no way divide either the national representation or the Bulgarian society to those who support the cause of the refugees from the war from Ukraine and those who in any way have doubts as to whether we should support them in the way it is proposed. The problems of Bulgarian citizens with health insurance are some problems, we have to solve them here in the National Assembly, on the territory of the Committee on Health probably there are a lot of problems there. But this is about specific problems. Even in the reasons of the Bill it is written that it is a special way to solve problems. Here I address people who have been dealing with legislation for a long time. Since it is a given time limit, Directive 2001/55 establishes the right to grant temporary closure to foreigners within one year. That period may be extended under certain conditions by another six months. And because it becomes a temporary measure, and since it has already become clear here that this bill has been drawn up on the basis of the European directive, on the basis of Decision No 144 of the Council of Ministers, which concerns refugees from Ukraine, does this provisional measure have to be in the main body of the Bill, or should it be in the Transitional and Final Provisions? But that's the least of the bill's problems. It's about legislative equipment. There are much more serious problems. The first problem is that we explicitly say that those with temporary protection status are necessarily health-insured. That's what the legislator says. Once they are legally insured, this means that they are entitled to the entire legislative package, which also applies to Bulgarian health insured persons. The directive says something different. The directive says that minimum standards must be established for this type of temporary protection. Okay, we've accepted the more favorable development we're offering the whole package of health services. Only we're not saying who will provide these Ukrainian citizens? If we assume, for example, that they are 100,000 or we expect to be 200,000, some kind of prognosis we have to have. We're assuming it's 100,000. The simple account shows that within one calendar year average, associate Professor Tonev, every health-insured Bulgarian citizen has the right to BGN 880. We can easily multiply that 100,000 times that 880 lv. and we get $88 million. This money, albeit projected, should have been foreseen in the National Health Insurance Fund budget or somewhere. There was supposed to be a source of funding. At the moment, there is no source of funding. What's the offer? It is proposed that this health insurance package be financed in a manner determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. However, the decision of the Council of Ministers in the Bill is currently unclear. On what income will these Ukrainian refugees be provided? Since when does their provision begin from the beginning of the war, from February 24th, from the day of entry, until when does their health insurance rights begin to flow? All these issues are open and not solved in the Bill. So you propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we now place a wet stamp on the bill for amending the Health Insurance Act and provide the Council of Ministers with the decision to decide what and how to do it. But this is the model of the SUV that everyone in this room denied! Why does the legislator not say how they should be provided? What's the problem with him saying that? Nothing. All you have to do is write the specific texts. We say that the situation was dynamic, it is true that it is dynamic, but there are forecasts: 100,000, 200,000, 1 million, as many as they will be! See the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, see the opinion of the National Health Insurance Fund! Well, colleagues, these are killer opinions! They tell you: restructuring your expenses! Why didn't this bill go through the Budget Committee? The colleagues from the Budget Committee could tell us where to get that money. To the questions I am asking them right now, I also asked them during the meeting of the Committee on Health and my esteemed associate Professor Tonev, asking: "How can I vote in this situation?" he replied to me: "Doctor Ademov, vote with heart! "But, dear Mr. Tonev, I am not a cardiologist, I am a resuscitator. [[Laughter]] Leaving the emotional beauty aside, I always vote with reason because I'm a resuscitator. Therefore, honourable Members, do not share this discussion with those who support the cause of Ukrainian refugees and those who have any comments. We have comments in the way the texts are written, not that these people should be supported. Next, there are good things, for example. It is the right answer to questions about people who are without funds. Another question is how will it be proved whether refugees from Ukraine have no means at all. For them, for refugees, for people without funds, there is partial free hospital care. This Order No 17 of 2005 was it, 2008 or 2008 that solved the issue The Social Ministry is always 3 million in the budget, but there is a social criterion, not a health criterion. Except those people who don't have the means, they don't have the right. By their current rights, they're not entitled to extra-hospital help. So the decision to have and such rights is in the right direction. For people with dual citizenship, let's say Bulgarian and Ukrainian, they do not have the obligation to be provided in Bulgaria. For them there is a procedure in which they can acquire health insurance rights, but this procedure is quite aggravating and the proposal to obtain the health insurance status is in the right direction. Dear colleagues, there is another hypothesis for Bulgarian citizens who reside in third countries because, when it comes to the European Union, there is another framework, there is coordination of social security systems, which coordination solves the issues of transfer of funds. But when it comes to third-country nationals, if you have been resident for more than 183 days, there is a procedure in the Bulgarian legislation to restore the insurance system or within six months, paying insurance contributions, or one time paying 12-month social security contributions to acquire a right. Now these Bulgarian citizens, who reside more than 183 days, from Ukraine in this case because they are fleeing the war, cannot predict their stay in Bulgaria and therefore the procedure for establishing their health insurance status, under which they offer the government, is justified. With all these remarks, I would like to call on the Members of the National Assembly to do everything possible for all these texts that I have just spoken about to consult with the Budget Committee, to provide for a financial resource, not to rely solely on restructuring, as the Ministry of Finance says. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev, he very often uses this, so incredibly delicate method, he says: "By providing money for some activity, from which other activity you will take the money from? "We are now predicting money for Ukrainian refugees, can you tell me where you will get the money from, from which other activity to give it here to Ukrainian refugees? With all these arguments and the hope that some of the problems I have spoken about can be corrected between first and second readings, our parliamentary group will refrain from support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here's a line for you, Doctor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Dr. Ademov, yes, there were indeed such discussions during the extraordinary Committee on Health and, yes, I then proposed to me the rhetorical question of how to vote on this bill, to vote with a heart. Reason always has to be the lead, but sometimes we have to choose the right moment to add additional reasons to make a decision. On the back of the room a moment ago I received an impulse of people who laughed when they heard your reply, apparently in them the vote with a heart is excluded as an opportunity.. They always vote with other motivations, I will not comment on what. There are notes in society on this matter. You are not a cardiologist, Dr. Ademov, but as a resuscitator you know that help is as effective as possible when it is timely. We can, within two or three months, create the perfect law that will be agreed with everyone affected. We can get the best offer from Minister Vassilev. The budget committee should make us a perfect and unstoppable law and make him late. In the dynamic situation of exiting from a complex crisis for our healthcare facilities, at a time when they need to recalibrate their work and restore the maximum volumes of activities, after evaluation and discussion, we have decided that we need to find the most balanced measure for everyone affected. And with regard to the Bulgarian health system, to which you are still assigned, it is best not to have it in every Ukrainian citizen, to open the paperwork and to see what is due to it and what is not. We have the assurance of the European institutions that these costs will in no way burden the state budgets of the countries concerned. We call for empathy, we call for reason, we will not exclude reason. Once again, we call for the support of the bill that we have tabled in this way. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u33	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Second line from Professor Asen Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Dr. Ademov, I remember that not very long ago we adopted the budget of the state for 2022. There in Transitional and Final Provisions there was a § 110, I think it was in which, for the first quarter it was " § 110," which said that humanitarian aid was granted to Ukraine. [[SIGHS]] What has prevented us from doing exactly what we want to do right now, is this humanitarian aid, or is healthcare not humanitarian? I think that precisely in this fund, the creation of such a fund would have done a much better job than at the moment opening the Health Insurance Act and wondering how to set up the one-year presence of Ukrainian refugees, of course, God forbid it would be longer. I think this fund is doing a very good job. For starters to make such a fund through these Transitional and Final provisions to use these funds, and now to have really enough time to clear things up and to do something quality like people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u35	Thank you, Professor. Is there a third line to Hassan Ademov? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister! Thanks for the lines. Prof. Tonev, I explicitly stated from this tribune that we are not against support for Ukrainian refugees in any way. Our only point is that the way it is proposed to resolve this issue is not legislative and legal and technically cleared. That's a whole other subject. This isn't about the idea. I know this isn't your offer, it's a proposal from the Ministry of Health. I have experience in these things, and I know how these things work. But that's not the point. Let the Budget Committee tell us who the source of funding is. Are these funds from the money that have been adopted in the State Budget Act for humanitarian support from the health fund reserve? Where will these sources of funding be from, ask colleagues from the Health Insurance Fund? There is no answer to that question. Where's that money coming from? From restructuring expenditures in the state budget, okay, then tell us where to get them. The question is: how will they be provided? Okay, they need to be health-secure, we need to take care of these people, we can't leave them without treatment. Well, look, in one of the capital hospitals right now, there's a patient in Ukraine waiting for a heart transplant, using a heart pump, costing money. These funds must be provided. Medical facilities don't refuse help. The medical facilities provide it. But the point is, there must be a legitimate way to finance this activity. That's my claim. I have no other claim. We are all here to help refugees from Ukraine. Therefore, once again, the attempt to be divided into those who support this cause or those who doubt this cause is unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u37	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Radomir Cholakov for a statement. To make a statement, Mr. Kostadinov, I'm recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My colleagues will shortly say the essence of the Law, I too, but I want to share some thoughts again about law as such. You know that a month ago, a week after the war had started, the Group of GERB-SDS submitted a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees. In this bill, the subject matter of temporary protection was regulated where it had a systematic place in the legislation, namely in the Law on Asylum and Refugees. In this project started in the Transitional and Final Provisions referring to the other general laws of the Health Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Employment Promotion Act and so on, which are necessary in order for temporary protection to start working in its system, as under Directive 55/2001. A committee on which the majority did not reject, but let us say, voted abstention on our project, I took the liberty of saying that now the following will happen: there are two methods of legislation. One of them, I would call it a code-ifying matter, which concerns a particular problem, to be in the place where this problem is concerned, in its systematic place. Temporary protection, its systematic place is not in the Health Act, but in the Asylum and Refugees Act. And if there are to be references, they must be made by the Law on Asylum and Refugees to the Law on Health Insurance, not vice versa. The second approach, I call it the feudal approach: each ministry begins to change its own law, because each ministry considers its own law as its preserved feudal territory. And that's where our problem comes from today, colleagues. Try to consider the matter of temporary protection as a system and you will understand that Directive 55/2001 very correctly introduces minimum standards of health insurance, because it simultaneously introduces the right to work. Those who enter under temporary protection, the host country is obliged and we provide them with minimum health insurance, at the same time being given the right to work and by giving them the right to work, they are already starting to pay the insurance that will give them full health insurance. That's the whole logic. If we look at it partisanly, piece by piece, and we want to be generous, so the Ministry of Health is now looking at its law and you are saying, "Let's be generous, let's give them a full health insurance."...................... Do you understand what the problem is? And that is why Dr. Ademov is very correct at the moment saying: "Where will the money come from? "What if these people are not put into the labour market, there is no place for the money to come from, and then the Council of Ministers, we give him the right to legislate almost and as a colleague, a rubber stamp, said here. They will do whatever they want, accept whatever decrees they want with decrees will change the state budget again. You see, because we don't get along systematically, that's why we're creating this problem that we're running into right now. I'd offer you okay, our legislation will be feudal, I accept that every ministry writes its laws, it's irrelevant. The ministers then write agreements to each other about how they will cooperate. I'm saying it in a clamp. But let's see the Ministry of Labour and Social Care what changes it will propose in labour law, so that we can see in a system how the two laws work and how the funds that are needed for the social and health insurance of these people will be found. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u39	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines to Radomir Cholakov? I won't. I give the floor to Kostadinov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u40	Mr. Chairman, here three weeks ago, from this platform, we discussed the fact that when we talked about providing humanitarian aid to Ukraine, not to Ukrainian refugees, but to Ukraine, according to the Bulgarian government then and according to Prime Minister Cyril Petkov, no differentiation should be made between the Bulgarians in Ukraine and the other citizens of Ukraine. It was on the occasion of our remark that the first humanitarian aid that Bulgaria sent in this period of time, in the words of Prime Minister eight times the truck arrived in Western Ukraine. It was unloaded in Lvov, if I'm not mistaken. In places where there are no Bulgarians anyway. It was then said that if we comment on this issue in this way, we almost create a division between the people who are suffering from war. One way or another, in fact, they all suffer the same. Okay. We accepted this motivation of the government and decided, since Bulgaria will not help the Bulgarians in Ukraine, we organized ourselves. So far, we've sent 35 tons of humanitarian aid. The last truck to unload 14 tons yesterday left literally a few days ago. However, we are now seeing how this approach in our country does not apply in the same way because, if we have to respect this point of view, we should not have written only the name of Ukraine in the reasons for the bill, because I, reading them, did not see any other refugees being spoken about, I did not see any other persons seeking temporary protection, humanitarian aid, and so on, speak only about Ukraine. And now the big question is: does the government pass a double standard, or yes? It turns out that when we help people in Ukraine, we mostly help people who are not Bulgarians because we cannot share them. However, when we start talking about the help of refugees, here again and only help people of Ukrainian origin, we do not look to other refugees. Not to mention that Bulgaria has not yet sent any humanitarian aid to the Bulgarians in Ukraine, I bruise the Bulgarians in Ukraine, where they live in Bolgrad, Odessa region, including the area currently occupied by Russian troops, on the coast of the Azov Sea, because there are Bulgarians there as well. This is the issue that needs to be commented on right now, and that is why we will not support this bill because it creates discrimination. Honest discrimination! And I can only imagine what would happen if we decided to do something like this here in Bulgaria, for example, to say: "Let there be for the Bulgarians, for the gypsies there be no. " Starting with racists, let's not get to any other stupider definitions and qualifications later. However, when it comes from the Bulgarian government, it is a good thing: we cannot divide the people, we cannot divide their troubles. And what I'm actually saying is a repetition of the Bulgarian Prime Minister's words. So very please specify all that is currently being commented. Here we will for a reason make amendments to the Bill and seek support from those who have imported it. Yes, it is really necessary to help people who are in need and who need support, but to all, without exception,.... whether they come from Ukraine or from another conflict zone, because there are other refugees in Bulgaria and if we decide to help one, we must help others. It is democratic, it is human, speaking of hearts, brains and other organs................................................................. just reminding................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to Kostadin Kostadinov? I won't. Next for speech "Kostadin Angelov and Georgi Mihaylov. Do either of you have a wish? Nobody wants to. [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] No desire, no raises his hand. You, Professor?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The presented bill for amendment and supplement of the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted by Mr. Tonev and a group of MPs, in practice creates much more questions than to give solutions to them. Let us begin with the purely procedural vices associated with his discussion. First, the requirements of art. 73, para. 10 for his public discussion. I remember that when this National Assembly started, the basic principles on which the ruling majority would work were said at the very beginning, and one of them was the return of parliamentaryism. Yes, the public discussion was definitely mixed with the first reading of this bill in the Committee on Health. We have something that you all said you were against, and you're actually continuing this practice denied you. Secondly, in terms of his timing. The war in Ukraine began on February 24th. For more than a month in Bulgaria there are refugees, for which I would say that the state is not in any part of the country, and everything that is related to the logistics of these refugees, the state relies solely on the Bulgarian municipalities and the volunteers. Regarding the Bulgarian hoteliers. I want to warn them not to be surprised if they ever get their promised 40 leva in the future. Why do I say don't be surprised, because they might get it, they might not get it. This is one of the basic principles of the work of the change in Bulgaria. Under the law, essentially his texts. When we are talking about a law that makes changes in the budgeting of the sector, we must clearly state what is the source of funding for Ukrainian refugees. And in order not to be misunderstood, I would like to say that our parliamentary group is firmly for the provision of such assistance and is firmly against the actions that are being carried out in Ukraine. With regard to the proposed Bill. The submitted bill, and the Commission, we have also noted, the ruling gentlemen, you want to turn the National Assembly back into a rubber stamp to support some texts without knowing how much this will cost the Bulgarian taxpayers and what is the source of funding. And since the Bulgarian people are wise and say that the bill is never done without the innkeeper, I will read to you what the Ministry of Finance says: It is necessary to take into account that the proposed changes to create the rights of the category of persons concerned through their inclusion in the scope of the health insurance system give rise to additional financial commitments with the corresponding budgetary effects. In this regard, in the context of the rules of art. Art. 19 and art. 119 of the Public Finance Act should be taken into account that, at this stage of the implementation of the budget, financial security opportunities should be sought under the EU instruments at the expense of prioritisation of expenditure, including in the part of the Health Fund, and/or in the order of art. 110 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 at the expense of cost savings and/or transfers to the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget under the state budget, as well as the expenses of the central budget for implementation of policies under art. 1, para. 5 of the State Budget Act for 2022, including at the expense of the Kovid measures. The Ministry of Finance clearly tells us that money for this decision, which is offered by a group of MPs from the ruling majority, is not available. Such funds are not foreseen, such funds are not foreseen under the European Union either. Now this tribune has said that we should vote with our heart, that we should open our minds to uphold the Law, because, you see, it is useful. True, this law is useful, but it will be another heartfelt wish, and will not really solve the problems of Ukrainian refugees and their need for health insurance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Regarding what I said, I would like to read another part of the opinion of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which says: At the same time, the Bill should provide for after the start of work under a contract of employment, respectively as a self-insuring person, the obligation of the State to drop out and those persons to be provided, as set out in the Insurance Act. There is no such reference in the proposed bill, it is not clear what happens to these persons if they self-insure or start working on a work contract. In general, we are making a legislative bacchanal in the sector of......... which, again, I am telling you, will not solve the issues of Ukrainian refugees. You ask us to support this bill, but I would like to tell you that we absolutely cannot do this on the basis of assurances that funds would come from the European Union sometime in the future, how much and how much per person, nor would we do it on the basis of a possible restructuring of expenditure by the Council of Ministers, without knowing which costs will be restructuring, how they will be restructuring and where they will be taken. Let the legislators, his importers, clearly come out and say: from which item of the state budget from the function of......... will be taken the 54 million or the 88 million that Mr. Ademov said to make it clear to everyone who is responsible for reducing the funds of the respective feathers. Finally, I will end up with something that is a principle for us: with this law you will create chaos in the sector, and that is why we will refrain from supporting it, simply because we are used to creating order in chaos. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u43	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Replies to Kostadin Angelov? Sincere Mitev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Angelov, as we tried to say earlier, some of the money will come from funds that have remained from previous programming periods, which the European Commission has allowed to be restructuring on expenditures related to the crisis in Ukraine, so specifically where the money will come from that is the answer. They will not come from elsewhere, will not be directed, to be taken from the share of Bulgarian citizens. It's money that's not used, and they have to be returned if they're not rerouted. And will the measure benefit Ukrainian citizens who are in the territory of Bulgaria whether it is effective or not? You yourself, as a doctor, much better know that at the moment there is only funds for emergency care, and there are people who need medical services that are not only connected with emergency care, so we think that this measure would be quite useful to the people who are currently in this state.... the Ukrainian citizens who are in the territory of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. The second line is from Asen Baltov, the third from Anton Tonev. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Professor Angelov, we are talking about some very nice things here, but because I am more practically emphasising things, I can tell you what will happen if this change is eventually accepted even now. I know that even now in health care 50 and over 50% are being paid by the patient himself. What happens when this patient is really being treated, but he has to pay extra for his treatment? We know that many things currently do not come in and are not filled by the National Health Insurance Fund, many of the patients need additional payment. Who's gonna pay these people's bills when they need something extra that needs to be paid, which doesn't go into what the health insurance or the health insurance company takes? This is the big problem for which you do not take attitude at all, because you will see that many people will be treated. And they are currently being treated everywhere in Bulgaria, such people who need food, are being given food, are having emergency operations, but when you have to pay something that the Health Insurance Fund doesn't cover, you have to take the money out of your pocket. It's what's called an extra payment that doesn't go into health insurance. So what you are proposing will practically not be enough and will not help to do what is necessary for these refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u47	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Third line, associate Professor Tonev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister of Health! Professor Baltov, I suppose that after your reply was to Professor Angelov, he took the liberty of answering the questions you asked. Very carefully listen to all your suggestions, but in them they creep, I will not say untruths, I will say: slight confusions. I will read only one of the cited discrepancies in the correctness of the procedures carried out by the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 73, para. 10: At the first vote, the committee responsible shall hold a public discussion of the bills, subject to art. 31 and after the expiry of the time limits set for opinions. " - Professor Angelov said that we did not discuss in public, and we have all the opinions. Which one, Professor Angelov? There are other political speeches sneaking in. I will only say in the form of a reply that we will consider essentially each proposal to improve our bill. Its aim is to help not only Ukrainian refugees, but to have a ready-made law, which in any such crisis... I hope not, but it occurred to me what would happen if the war grew and entered the territory of the Republic of Moldova. Then will we meet again and discuss what to do or will we have a ready-made law that will enable the Council of Ministers in dynamic order to react?! With regard to European money, which we do not know where it will come from. Once again, I would remind you that on a proposal from Kiril Petkov at an informal European Council of Prime Ministers there is approval for a sum of 10 billion. Euros, which will be allocated to countries that welcome refugees from the war in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u49	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Will there be a hole, Professor Angelov? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, you explained it very well, only I want to tell you that the funds from previous programming periods are not left - they are zero leva. Almost all of them are spent on a horse. Previous programming periods, what you said. We are not against Ukrainian refugees receiving healthcare in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in hospital and hospital care. We ask: how much this will cost and where the funds will come from in particular. How much money did we have in mind? There are billions flying here, millions of different numbers. We, as the National Assembly, cannot speak willingly. We need to give concrete answers. Dear Professor Baltov, a system changes when you know it. Then, when a system is not known, its functioning, all the changes that are made in it initiated by people who do not know it are dangerous to the system and it is not clear what will be obtained from them. Prof. Tonev, art. 73, para. 10 says: At the first vote, the committee responsible shall hold a public discussion of the bills in compliance with art. 31 and after the expiry of the time limits set for opinions. " The fact that we have received the views in the leading Commission does not mean that we have had a public discussion. Public discussion is something other than a first reading of bills. I tell you this well-meaningly as a person who has sufficient parliamentary experience and sufficient management experience, participated in the first readings of many bills in leading committees. Regarding part of your line. I was a little scared. I don't get it. You have some information that you know Russia will enter Moldova or something will happen because this is the first time we've heard of it. If the government has such information, please share it with all MPs so we know what awaits us. And the fact that Kiril Petkov initiated 10 billion. Euros, we don't trust Kiril Petkov. He's proven it repeatedly with the things he says. There's no way you can convince us of that. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u51	Thank you, Professor Angelov. Professor Mihailov is enrolled for speech, then associate Ivanov is also enrolled, Petar Petrov is also recorded. Here you are, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am happy that I am speaking immediately after a good connoisseur of Debelyanov [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For which I congratulate him. But that's not the point of my speech. I'm shocked literally right now. There's some guys here with some wrists on their lapels. Are you not uncomfortable when we talk about the people who seek protection in Bulgaria? Here an hour out of nine wells of water is drawn to drown this idea and to say that there is no way to do it this way, or as Christo says in his famous song: Colleagues, and here someone even suggested that this be foreseen in the budget adopted in February. Was this news foreseen, how long it would last, how long it would last, how many people would be hit?! Do you see what's happening on TV? You've been up here since yesterday talking about military aid. You humanitarians don't want to give these people, and you twist around here and say you're going to be a humanitarian, but now you're going to hold back. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What does that look like?! There are doctors between you. Leave them alone, with all due respect. Please, first of all, don't cry at a foreign graveyard of the Council of Ministers, he will find money where to give it to the Ukrainians. Secondly, those who say there is discrimination. The Law does not mention Ukraine in a single word. The reason is mentioned because the situation is specific. If it were during the war in Syria, there were such... Do you remember that there was an electronic panel in front of Bulbank that counted the people killed in Syria? Now should we start counting those killed in Ukraine? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u53	What are you guys fighting about?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u54	To vote for! Nobody yells at you, Professor Ivanov. In such a matter, one can be emotional, and for good reason, because it is about helping people who have suffered. That's why I don't want to talk about it here. I have a lot of respect for lawyers, but what would anyone say about a feudal principle of law enforcement... Where's the coworker? Mr. Cholakov is not in the room right now. Remember the National Health Insurance Act, where you put 17 laws inside! And what about the Beekeeping Act through which you decided all sorts of things in the legislation?! Don't you remember that, you GERB, so you're going to talk to us about feudalism?! The time has come to resolve these issues urgently. It is decided by the legislator, supported by the Council of Ministers. Help him and you with your vote. And let's practice here... I'm surprised and deliberately didn't take a line from some respected colleagues. Please, he will find a way for the budget to deal with this problem. It's war, and it's war! I warn those who haven't understood it yet: this is not a war between contingents between 8 and 5 million, as it was here at our border. This is about two countries, of which one is 150 million and the other is 60 million. Do you realize the consequences? Kissinger has already told you what will be the consequences for the whole world In general, colleagues, I am uncomfortable listening to him for an hour. Let's go through... I know the bands still have time, but it's so unbeautiful. Since we are speaking here yesterday and are talking about individual politicians, and we are talking about assistance to a country which not every NATO Member State is allowed to do, especially a cross-border state, and here we are talking about assistance..................................................................................... and we have been providing for people who want temporary protection protection protection protectionifications, and this issue has been properly formed correctly in the law after.................................................. This is unforgivable and unworthy of the Bulgarian Parliament! I call on you to vote on it and to end it. And whatever there is to do between first and second readings, it will, of course, be done according to legal needs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u55	Thank you, Professor. For lines "Iskren Mitev," then Professor Angelov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Mikhailov, I don't agree with you. The Ministry of Finance has already found it, and it won't find it. He's already got money. Now here I'll tell you where and on another issue from the Operational Program. 30 million are left from the Operational Program "Regions in Growth".50 million from the Good Governance. 42 million from the Human Resources Development. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] That's where the money's gonna come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. For a second line, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, very passionate, lots of energy, many political messages. Save them for the elections they are coming and will be very soon. So point them at your voters then.. attack GERB. You'll need that energy in the coming months. The election campaign will start soon. With regard to all these things that you have told us here, I know that the Bulgarian Socialist Party, to which you are a representative, and in the Commission you have done the same, is to give, comrades! Let's give, comrades, but it must be clear where we get it, comrades, and to whom do we give it? Which operational programs of those you said will we interrupt and which ones will we continue? [[Noise and lines.]] Because it gets hot in this room, it's starting to look like an African saying to me: "When you have a hammer, every problem seems like a nail to you, and when you have a sickle and a hammer, you make a revolution. " - Good luck, Professor Mihailov! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u59	Thank you, Professor Angelov. For the third line, Professor Tonev, to diversify the words, I will give it to Dr. Hristov. Here you go, Dr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u60	Professor Mihailov, good that they are our colleagues, who have been serving these Ukrainians for a month and a while now without taking any money. They are now washing our shame away for an hour and thirty minutes from what is happening here, discussing and overflowing from empty to empty. And instead of hearing concrete proposals about what should be amended in this bill, we listen to political and election messages early, early in the morning. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u61	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Professor Mikhailov, for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u62	I do not want to respond specifically to my fellow Members and continue this pointless discussion. Just because of my colleague's attempts at image thinking, let's not act like crooked nails in this room! Let's do our job. Let's vote on this bill. Let's set a deadline between first and second readings. Otherwise, if we get the nails up, it's gonna be really hard. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u63	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u64	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I believe that amending the Health Insurance Act is extremely important. Therefore, in my opinion, about the time we spend here, the negotiators said that we have wasted nearly an hour... we need to clarify something to our colleagues, and more precisely about the mechanism of changing the Health Insurance Act. First of all, we have to say that the Health Insurance Fund is generally, everybody knows, it's public. You can't be here who comes to decide, and you'll be spending money from the public register. It's a public register. Yes, I understand, Associate Tonev, that the task has been set to make this change. I also know why it was put on you and why it didn't come as an initiative of the Council of Ministers. It's clear to everyone here who's in law enforcement. This is so that it can pass as quickly as possible, so that there are no co-ordination procedures in the Council of Ministers and all that requires a law which is introduced by the Council of Ministers. Okay, so far so good, Professor Tonev. You are performing a normal political order of a government which is extremely confused with the situation that is happening, the opposition of your partners. "BSP, your vision and, on the other hand, DSB. This opposition to opinions, of positions is very interesting because in different situations we see on the left how they speak for assistance to Ukraine and what it should be and on the other hand, as quickly as possible this bill will pass. The bill should normally have a specific. He can't be emotional. So far, we've been listening to emotional statements about how we should emotionally immediately validate this bill, or as I have just respected Dr. Ademov said, "It is better even this bill to publish it directly in the Official Gazette and to start acting. Because here, as colleagues who work really in health care just spoke, I'm going to make a small survey here in 1996. Emotion alone is not working, colleagues. I've worked when there were no simple things, like dressing materials, no antibiotics. This is Jean Videnov's time. I'm just remembering this period. Emotions don't help or heal when you're with a patient in front of you. When you have a patient in front of you and when you don't have anything, and you know how to do it, then emotions can't heal. Therefore, when we raise the question purely pragmatically why this bill does not have financial collateral, and here to come out and tell me, I quote: "We do not know where the money is going to come from.".. Only this quote, which was just said by associate Tonev, is enough for me to understand that there will be money, but once. Modern medicine is something that requires knowledge, requires skills, but also requires means. How many months are we waiting for some reaction from the Council of Ministers in relation to refugees? See in hospitals how many people are being treated and how many births we already have here Bulgaria? We have now thought about it, and so far, colleagues who work on the first line are looking to use, in a sense, the fastest way, the best way to do the medical service without thinking about money. Yeah, but we're put here to think about how to secure, make their work better. So I can't accept the words that we have to vote only emotionally. The emotions, I said, somewhere in the theater when we're watching a show. But we can't look indifferently. We need to think about the colleagues that we will need tomorrow, as Professor Baltov said before, when we should for example put some plaque or some medical school from where, how? The other thing I want to share, which is very important that here, making this decision, as was just said, we will abstain. And if there is enough reason and wisdom in those who have tabled this bill, we must actually between first and second reading, if this project passes, specifically come the Minister of Finance and say exactly how it will be secured, in the sense, the resources of the Public Health Insurance Fund. You are well aware of the lack of funding for many of the activities carried out by our colleagues. You also know that negotiations are under way, and the framework treaty has not yet been signed. So here you put many, many, many problems and problems. We can't just do that, let's make a change to health insurance. Guys, you can't do this. Here people who have worked for more than 20 years of medicine know very well that in medicine things cannot be planned for tomorrow, starting today for tomorrow we will spend that money. You can't do that. I understand, the Bill is very important, but it lacks the basic way in which we want to help the people in need, the Ukrainian citizens who are actually relying on our country who are staying here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u65	And thank you, Professor Ivanov. For a cue, Georgi Svilenski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I would agree with some of yours and with what you said. You appeal all the time: "Don't support him. There's no money. This is not the time. From today to tomorrow you can't. What are these ribbons for? Aren't they for some solidarity, help? And here you're explaining to us how we shouldn't support it, but we should be giving help to the military. Yesterday you asked for military assistance for Ukraine with these ribbons the same. You asked for military help. Today with these ribbons you say that there should be no help to those people who need that Bulgaria should not provide this funding. That's what you're saying! And wait. Wait for what? What has to happen to wait? Take off the ribbons! Be honest with the Bulgarian citizens. Be honest with the Ukrainian ones who come to Bulgaria and do not lie to them with these ribbons that take care of their rights. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] Just because you want military help doesn't mean you have to wear ribbons because it's not moral and it's not fair to tell us that now is not the time. When's the time? They need help now. Not next month, not the other month. [[The National Representative Kostadin Angelov spoke to the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Professor Angelov, you don't have to dictate to him. Mr. Ivanov is from six mandates MP, he can answer me sufficiently because I have listened to him. And you also took off your ribbon because you were also explaining in the same way how the Law should not be voted on and how you would vote against. What are you voting against? Against a law that was written, yes, quickly, because the war came quickly. Because you have to solve problems, but you don't care about that. You are interested in demagogy, to hang up the ribbons and to say, "We are for solidarity." Everything in this Parliament is decided by voting and by pressing buttons, not by talking from this tribune. And now we will see how you will vote, and all media and Bulgarian citizens will see how you will press the button whether we help Ukrainian refugees or let them happen whatever God gives. So I call on you, Mr. Ivanov, I do not pick on you, absolutely personally, take off the ribbons, vote against it, let the Bulgarian citizens see your position, or carry the ribbons and support the bill. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria........................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Honest Mitev. Second line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, 30 million remaining money that Bulgaria has to return from the R &amp; R &amp; R; 50 million remaining money from the good management which Bulgaria must return to the European Union; 42 million from the Human Resources Development which Bulgaria must return to the European Union. Take off the ribbons. You prefer to give money back to the European Union, not to use it for people who are in need. I saw you at the protests the other day. Think about the people who need that money right now. This is some money that will not be taken by the Bulgarian citizens, but will be directed at the people who need it the most right now. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line, colleagues? I can't see. [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] For the doppelganger, associate professor Ivanov. The procedure after we have exhausted the procedure for Mr. Ivanov's speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u70	Dear Mr. Svilensky, thank you for the line. And as far as I'm concerned, it's my choice and my right and my position. [[(Reply from.. Continue Change......................................................................................................]] If you'd like to come and speak. And as for hypocrisy, we can talk a lot about this subject - what is hypocrisy and what is not. I'm going to Mr. Svilensky. First, when we state our position, we stated it at the beginning when the war on the 24th began. Then we were talking about war, and you were talking about surgery, some sort of liberation operation. Then, when we voted on the budget, Mr. Svilenski, for humanitarian aid, we all voted unanimously for As for the position, disparity, or however you want it to be, and hypocrisy, when it really needs to be helped, we firmly stated our political position. While you're spinning and wondering what to do, negotiations are taking place. Here we see yesterday, respectively, the specific topic that you mentioned yesterday about how, how to help from military industrial complexes or how, how to send help to our Ukrainian Christian friends. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Another thing I'd like to share with you, Mr. Svilensky. When you talk to me about emotions, about humanitarianism, I gave you an example, to deliberately think about the colleagues, what happened when you were once again in charge in the face of Jean Videnov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Emotion, I say again, in many cases, especially, how to say when decisions are to be made, decisions operational, is not in the first place. First you think about it and then you have to act. In this case you give an emotional bill that you require to be supported. You can't! Even I'll ask: when a man goes to build a house, he draws the plans. He paints them well, but architects draw them. But when you go to build the house, they say to you, "With what?........ you do not say the most important thing...... how will we build this house, where will this money be taken? And if you've listened to me carefully, I still say, best of all, I address you, you have to say... Here comes young Mr. Mitev, enthusiastically saying: they remained money. What is this: money left?! As far as I know, you're a student studying finance. Any money left?! There aren't any. So you have to say which project is not implemented, and when a project is not implemented, that money, if it doesn't come back, you have to justify it, you have to ask for permission. There's no money left. So I suggested the Minister of Finance between first and second reading to explain how the fund will be made, because, again, the Cashier is public, must in a way and form... Here, the people who run the Health Fund, have you read their opinion? What are they saying? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. They do not give a positive opinion of what you offer because they are guardians of the money of all citizens in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u71	And thank you, Professor Ivanov. Professor Angelov, a personal explanation, please. And then the procedure that was requested again by GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I'm taking a personal explanation because it's inexplicable to me what are you trying to do with your speech to remove the ribbons?! Let all Bulgarian citizens who are watching and listening to us know and remember one thing.. The Bulgarian Socialist Party does not support the declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament on the imposition of sanctions on Russia. You in a very elegant way support Putin's aggression, and that should be clear to all the people in this room. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Regarding our position... [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Don't yell at me from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u73	Colleagues, out of place, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u74	Mr. Chairman, please make a note to your colleagues on the left. The election campaign's gonna be soon, they're gonna be screaming. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let us make it clear to all of us that we have supported humanitarian aid for Ukraine. And I would like to ask you now as governors, with Deputy Prime Minister, with ministers: how much of this Bulgarian humanitarian aid have reached Ukraine and the needy? Zero! Administrative capacity of the Bulgarian government - zero! That's what we're talking about. This is the hypocrisy of the Bulgarian Socialist Party that you say from this tribune something that does not happen. That's what we want to say with this bill, we're not going to lie to people about helping them, but we have to say: we're giving you 100 million, we're taking them here, and that's how we're going to help you. On the other hand, what you want us to do is like the promises of your party's political future. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u75	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. [[The National Representative Yavor Bojankov wants the floor.]] Mr. Bojankov, there is a procedure before you, wait. Welcome from GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u76	Honourable President, I take the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct and ask you to warn fellow Members of the ruling majority when they speak frankly untruths, especially in the context of European funding. First of all, when we are talking about recovery or non-refundable funds, it means that we have missed a whole programming period. The programme period is up to the end of 2023 and whatever funds it has saved under the operational programmes, they are currently not subject to a return to the European Commission on the one hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u77	Mrs. Nikolova, we understand the procedure. That's a statement on the ground already.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u78	Yes, my procedure is with you because my colleague Mitev speaks frankly untruthfully.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u79	Come out and make a statement, Mrs. Nikolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u80	Talking about restructuring European funds, something that has not been agreed with the European Commission, something that GERB-SDZ sincerely highlighted within the Committee on Bulgarians abroad...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u81	Mrs. Nikolova, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u82	You have nothing to take away my word for, because I am telling you that you need to tell the MP when he is not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u83	I'm gonna take your word for it because you're making a point. I understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u84	And the truth is that GERB-SDS proposed within the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u85	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Nikolova. Please step down from the stands! You're making a point. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Take the floor. [[The President turns off the microphones.]] I understand the procedure. [[The National Representative Denitsa Nikolova continues to speak with microphones off.]] I took your word away. Please take your seat. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When Mrs. Nikolova asks for the floor, I will give it to her and let her make her arguments. Mr. Bojankov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, really not only the procedures, personal explanations went beyond all limits, as Mr. Angelov also made some very strange personal explanation. After all, we are talking about the people who made Bulgaria energy dependent on one side. [[Noise and lines.]] Absolutely energy dependent! The people who destroyed the Bulgarian army and the Bulgarian defence, the people who brought Bulgaria's defence capabilities to the point that Bulgaria is currently debating whether it has anything to send.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u87	Mr. Bojankov, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u88	And for what Mr. Angelov says, that the election campaign was coming, I'll only say one thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u89	Mr. Bojankov, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u90	Hungry chicken... [[The President turns off the microphones. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u91	I did exactly the same thing. I warned Mr. Bojankov and took away his word. For the procedure please, Mr. Svilensky. I warn you that I will take the floor, too, if the procedure is not for me and is not for the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, you should take my floor if I go outside the procedure, but since you allowed Mr. Angelov in a personal explanation to say things that the Bulgarian Socialist Party clearly stated from this tribune... Yes, BSP, the BSP parliamentary group supported the declaration of the Bulgarian Parliament, which condemns actions in Ukraine! Yes, the Bulgarian Socialist Party did not support sanctions against Russia and that is clear to all Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And yes, the Bulgarian Socialist Party is against military assistance in Ukraine and this is an answer to what you said, Mr. Angelov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u93	Mr. Svilensky, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u94	Take off the strips, colleagues from GERB, take off the strips and then talk! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u95	Please come in for a procedure. [[Reply by MP Kostadin Angelov.]] Mr. Angelov, you know exactly how the vote was for the declaration, so I let Mr. Svilensky speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u96	[[GERB-SDS]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It starts to become a practice, first, to take the floor of the opposition when it exposes the lies of those who are in charge in this case Mrs. Nikolova. Secondly, it began to become a practice to systematically allow colleagues from BSP to come out here and insult our colleagues. Then, when we try to find out the truth about where the money will eventually come from to fund these measures, you always take our word for it. Do you think that's right?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As far as I know, you are equal among all of us, first among equals, I apologize. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u97	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u98	This means that you must behave like an equal and treat the opposition and the government equally. [[Radio and noise.]] As much as you laugh, colleagues, it's just your upbringing, nothing more. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Mrs. Nikolova has the floor. He can make his statement in the way the Rules allow. I'm following the rules. Mrs. Nikolova, before you is Peter Petrov for speech. I'm sorry. I took the floor of both colleagues from GERB-SDS and Mr. Bojankov from BSP. Mr. Petrov, you have a little less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u100	Can I give Mrs. Nikolova the floor before I do?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u101	If you wish, yes. Mrs. Nikolova, come in. Mr. Petrov has given up his seat to speak. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT. A line from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Mr. Chenchev, please, not from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For those who are not aware when GERB came out of government last year, about this time, operational programs, all operational programs, were at the level of implementation which gave absolute and definite confidence that they would be... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I'll tell you what it's about.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u103	Let's hear it, guys! Let's hear it! Maybe there's something more to the point. Excuse me, Mrs. Nikolova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u104	The operational programmes were at the level of implementation, which did not give any indication that any funds would be reimbursed to the European Commission. Today we are commenting on how to secure humanitarian aid for refugees from Ukraine, we will be taking funds from operational programmes. If that is the case, we want to know as opposition when this decision has been taken, with whom it has been negotiated and in which way all the projects that are currently agreed on under the operational programmes will be secured, including a lack of funds due to the inflation that you have caused as a ruling majority. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u105	Honest Mitev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To claim that any single or which government is responsible for bringing inflation to Bulgaria is absolute ignorance. Absolute ignorance! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Inflation is something that is happening at a global level, at a European level, already in Bulgaria, and saying that whoever is importing inflation into Bulgaria is absolutely unaware of how the economy of a country works. Please, one of the people who knows about economics to come out and confirm. On the other hand, the fact that, while you were in charge, it happened in such a way that you thought that all funds would be used by the European Commission, by the European operational programmes, does not mean that it happened. Apparently, when it terminated your leadership, you couldn't steal everything, so there was money left. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u107	Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u108	Thank you very much for that. And get to the point. Yes, we understand that the European Commission must approve the restructuring of those funds that remain. That's right, I agree with you. However, the European Commission has explicitly stated that the money left over can be restructuring to the people who need it in connection with the war in Ukraine. So there's that. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you very much for leaving money in Bulgaria for the Ukrainians. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u109	Mrs. Trifonova wanted the second line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u110	Ms. Nikolova, perhaps you should have been a little more specific and explained to them the entire restructuring procedure of the EU funds, because just our colleagues from We are very well aware that negotiations with the European Commission have not been conducted at all, and the reason for this whole scandal at the moment is that you have gone out and exposed another lie to the government. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Is there a third line, colleagues? Hristo Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u112	Mr. Chairman, I am making a line because I have already been confused by the speeches that the ruling majority have made in this debate. Initially, they argued, Ms. Nikolova, that this money would come from a future instrument of the European Commission to assist refugees, for which Prime Minister Kiril Petkov had just started a conversation. And now it is being discussed whether there will be such a fund, how it will be structured, where the funds will come from. Isn't that right? And I asked you, at your speech I asked you in a line that you already answered. Now this is about restructuring the operational programmes, which is a completely different thing. Apparently, the problem is, the ruling majority didn't know where he was gonna get the money either. So let them be so good as not to abuse. If we could make that difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u113	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mrs. Nikolova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, speaking of imported inflation, it may be in the order of 6%, as is the average European inflation at the moment. For the moment, however, in Bulgaria the reported inflation is more than 10%. So what is imported and what is inflation that is caused, including by governance, is a controversial issue. In terms of restructuring European programmes. I am following up on the information contained in the work formats, including that of COREPER in the European Union, and there the only thing that is being spoken about by European funds is that it is a signal that it may be necessary to find additional funds from the European Union on the subject of securing the refugee crisis from Ukraine. However, this does not mean that we have a green light either to restructure programmes or to take funds from them or to make any action on contracts already concluded, which must and should be implemented by the end of the programming period. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u115	And thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Peter Petrov to speak. Mr. Petrov, all I'm reminding you is that your group has less than two minutes. Your time is extended. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As the discussion continues where the money will come from, it is very clearly written in the motives of the Bill where it will come from. The money will come from two sources. The first is the National Health Insurance Fund, where each year its budget increases by about 700 million. BGN, as the money there is not enough. And the second source also mentioned in the reasons, precisely from the budget of the Ministry of Health for services under art. 82 of the Health Act, to which only vulnerable groups of persons with temporary protection currently have access, are requested by the Bill that all persons with temporary protection benefit from these services. Here's the minister, if I'm wrong, to correct me. So, honourable Members, if this were true of the millions that are pouring us here from the stands that they would come from the European Union, the importers would have recorded it in the motives and, more specifically, they would have recorded it in this part of the ex ante evaluation, which is called Cost Analysis. But since this is not written there and because it is precisely because of this, colleague Ademov, the bill has not passed through the Committee on Budget and Finance, the aim is not to explain to the Bulgarian citizens that the money will actually be paid by us Bulgarian taxpayers, as one part I will tell you, will come from an additional increased reserve of the Health Insurance Fund of 25 million. lv. to those 150 that you voted for 2022, so this is where the money will come from. And all these motives in the Bill that the health insurance contributions of those people who want temporary protection will pay them the state yes, we will actually pay them the Bulgarian citizens. It will be a blessing to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u117	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines, colleagues, to that statement? [[The National Representative Assen Baltov wants the floor.]] For a line, Professor Baltov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Petrov, dear Minister! In fact, what we have understood and what is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is that there is really no collateral for this bill. I don't see where these funds are coming from. And I say again: these funds that we are currently giving, if we change the Law, will by no means bear the full amount necessary for the treatment of these patients! Just because we're restoring their health insurance rights for a year doesn't mean we're treating them for free! So I urge you to really reconsider whether this amendment should be made and not to think about creating a fund to guarantee the treatment of these patients, because they will be patients now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u119	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Is there a second line, colleagues? Honest Mitev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In my first speech, I said that perhaps there was no point in explaining where the money would come from, and my next five speeches showed that no matter how much we explained where the money would come from, the opposition would always think that they wouldn't come. Where will they come from? From the operational programs. Yes, but from which one? " - Yes, but they were left with zero. No, they're staying, and we're listing how many are left. No, it wasn't left because while they were in charge, it seemed like they wouldn't be staying. And so on and so forth. The difference between European and Bulgarian inflation is that there are people here - one million users who are fueled by GERB young people to go to buy gasoline for example! [[Laughter and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.]] Or people who are threatened to protest and hold oil prices! That's where the difference comes from. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So to Mr. Gajev, who asked a very meaningful question. Well, Mr. Gadget, they're from two places. Some of the money will come from restructuring and the rest, and the other part will come when the European Union... [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u121	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u122	...officially approved the new measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u123	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u124	So there is no contradiction, Mr. Gajev, and there is a very clear logic where the money will come from. Money will not be taken from the pockets of Bulgarian citizens! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and AGE.]] Mr. Petrov, do you understand that? Do I have to say it again? Money will not be taken from the pockets of Bulgarian citizens! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u125	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, I beg you very much to be quiet in this room. The speakers can't be heard. Is there a second line? It's a hole, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u126	Dear colleagues! Thank you for your lines first. Colleague Baltov, because the money is not indicated where the money will come from, they will actually come from the budget of the Casata or the Ministry and we will pay it for the Bulgarian taxpayers. Keep thinking about it. They can't be collected either. And there remains one wish to those persons who will be put into the health insurance system, because aside from those who will eventually be hired under employment contracts, in no way will, firstly, a penny of health insurance be paid by those persons who have received temporary protection! And second of all, the state will never collect the money it owes for health insurance contributions after it has put these people in the health care system! Unlike what the Bulgarian state does to us, Bulgarian citizens, where we are forced to collect these obligations for health insurance contributions through public contractors. So, honourable importers of this bill, you create an inequality. Next, honourable Members, in my mind, why is an analogy created, as Professor Tonev said, with the people who receive refugee status and humanitarian protection? Let me tell you something, guys. However, in the Asylum and Refugees Act adopted in 2002, there was a reason for the legislator to settle a different regime, first, in art. 2, para. 2 for persons who receive temporary protection, it shall be for a temporary period, and in the following place, under art. Art. 8 and art. 9, where to arrange refugee status and humanitarian protection. Do you know why? Because of the sedentaryness of the faces. She's different. Those who receive temporary protection, the idea is that after this temporary protection is completed, they should return, while those who receive refugee status and humanitarian protection, the aim is to integrate them into the Bulgarian society. Therefore, the period of such protection, which is given under art. Art. 8 and art. Nine is between three and five years. And let me tell you something from the practice. Criterion to receive these special types of protection is, on the one hand, already established social relations with Bulgaria and the knowledge of Bulgarian language precisely because it aims to integrity of these individuals. Therefore, this analogy cannot be made and you can align the health insurance status of persons who receive temporary protection and persons who receive humanitarian and refugee status. Therefore, I will not support this project by saying finally, however, that there is a good proposal in it, and it concerns people with dual citizenship, you want to settle their health insurance status. This is a good proposal, fellow importers, they must be directly included in our health insurance system without any conditions. This is indeed a good proposal and we support it. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u127	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, you continue to disregard the regulations. Can you explain to me why you didn't take the word of Mr. Iskren Mitev on his line, since he, first of all, wasn't speaking in substance...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u129	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u130	...second, he went out to insult the opposition. No, you didn't take his word away! At the same time, about not speaking properly with regard to Ms. Nikolova's procedure, you took away her word! That is, you continue to systematically disobey the Rules and tolerate the Government! Can you explain why you didn't take the floor of Mr. Mitev, who was lying openly, including blaming the youth of GERB again? We expect to finally all get one five-year sentence and be done with the whole thing! [[(Replies from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u131	I hope no one gets sentencing. The difference was that Mrs. Nikolova was speaking in a procedure and Mr. Mitev was in a line and if I had to take away Mr. Mitev's word, I had to do it to absolutely all the speakers and then the debate would not be held. Other speeches, colleagues, are there any? Here you go, Dr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! In order not to disturb my colleagues here and the election debates, I will be as brief as possible. We will support this bill because in all the history of Bulgaria, there has never been a case where the Bulgarian people have not helped those in need, including in situations that have been much heavier than the current one. I believe that between first and second reading the necessary funding mechanisms will be found, all the more so, that, as we see from statistics, those currently needing are not such a figure that could interfere with the budget. Once again, I call on everyone to support this project, because we are currently deciding whether we are in favour of those in need or against. Everything else is a political talk. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u133	And thank you, Dr. Christov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Hristo Gadget. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! I will start with a story: about 200 years ago another Russian-Turkish war ended, the result of which is mass migration of Bulgarians to the territory of today's Ukraine and today's Moldova. Then these ethnic Bulgarians are greeted by the ancestors of these people who are fleeing at the moment in Bulgaria. They helped them, so we now have the moral duty to help the Ukrainians who are fleeing the war. I think it's quite reasonable and logical to help war-running people. Speaking of health, there should be no exception to the fact that somehow the opposition is against this. On the contrary, the opposition wants to be helped, but it wants to be helped properly and effectively. Unfortunately, there has already been an argument about where the funds will come from. Yes, money is important, but it's not the most important thing in the Bill and in helping those who run away from the war. It is also nice to know the very opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which basically says that there is no money, possibly they can come from the European Union, either from savings of expenditure and transfers to the budgets of the executive officers, or from the notorious art. 1, para. 5 of the State Budget Act, where is the bank of Asen Vassilev. So I don't know if this bill was originally presented to him. Another is the question which, by the way, became a topic in the debate: why of 61 thousand people who came to Bulgaria and remained in Bulgaria, only 17 thousand are currently with temporary protection status? Not because they don't want to, but because the temporary protection mechanism itself started last week. That is, one month later after the war on 23 March, it was the first date when temporary protection was given on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. On March 20, the first point on the border was opened. So, yes, one month after the war began. Today, by the way, I listened to the Romanian ambassador on one of the television stations, she said what measures the Romanian state has taken. I hope the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian representatives, especially from the Headquarters, will take this into account. So, indeed, the Bill and support for refugees is important. I hope that the funds that will be spent on their health insurance will subsequently not be allocated to the humanitarian aid that Bulgaria gives to Ukraine, because that would be brutal. We will make our proposals between readings so that this mechanism will become operational, because at the moment, as proposed, it will not be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Professor Tonev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I wasn't going to take a line, but that's how you managed to pull my tongue. First, with the greatest respect, we will look at your proposals and comply with all those who are essentially and improve our bill. And secondly, thank you for noting what happened a week ago. We managed to repair an organization created by GERB in the face of the Director of the State Agency for Refugees and immediately after that the numbers jumped. Thank you for admitting that, too. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u137	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tonev, in principle it is the rule that every permanent committee in Parliament should consider the proposals that have come between readings. It is now a matter of adopting and a majority of whether even the right decisions will be supported because there is practice in this Legislature. The correct decisions proposed by the opposition should not be adopted simply because they are proposed by the opposition. I hope that's not true in the Health Commission. We'll see. As for the second part of your line about the organisation that was made, it is nice to at least get acquainted with the regulatory base and what it is really about, because the State Agency for Refugees and what you have tried to point out is simply not true. When was the European directive adopted, i.e. when was the Temporary Protection Directive opened? March 4th. When was the decision of the Council of Ministers adopted? When was the headquarters created that organized the whole thing? By the way, even today Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said: recording and granting the status do not make it so much of the structures of the State Agency, but also from the Migration Directorate and from the border crossings. Why, by the way, are there Ukrainian citizens who have entered the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and have no documents to enter the Republic of Bulgaria? This is a question we need to ask, by the way, the Ministry of Interior, because someone must have slept at the border crossings. However, the issue of those who have been missed, so to speak, missed, because there must be a difference between people who enter from countries for which Bulgaria has visa regime, and people who are without visa regime. Because Ukrainian citizens have been entering the territory of the European Union without visas for two years since 2019, unlike other nationalities from other countries where a visa regime is requested. And this is one of the huge differences between the two crises from those fleeing Syria and Afghanistan, where a visa has always been required, and from those fleeing Ukraine where a visa is not required. So the whole concept that you tried to present that you had to make reception centers and so on is not true, it's just not true, because you can't stop a person who goes visa-free in the country and explain to him that he's illegally entered. Just the work had to be done at the beginning of the border, as did Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, even neighbouring Romania. We were just further back. So it came to nearly 50,000 people who had entered the territory of the state, looking for protection, but could not obtain for the simple reason that only on the 23rd the authorities of state power were activated to give status and training, and at all to create some reception organization, to create such centres in the country. Yeah, the focus at first... And here, by the way, why did you hide two weeks in a row the continuing hearing of the chairman of staff at the notorious headquarters? Well, because they were gonna polish all those mistakes that were made. Here I want to make a note, I hope you can at least hear it and take it into account. The documents requested at the time of the Ukrainians to receive social assistance or health care are in Bulgarian, require Bulgarian phones and Bulgarian numbers. Make at least a translation so they know how to fill them out. It's not complicated. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u139	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. To speak, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I am very sorry that this topic has become the subject of political opposition, it should not have been the case and it is not a good sign for the people who have seen the debate in the Bulgarian Parliament. Secondly, when we vote on a bill at first reading, honourable Members, we say in principle whether we are for it or against it. That is, fellow Members, you who said that you would not support this bill at first reading, say politically the following thing: that you do not want health insurance for those in need. That's what you're saying, nothing more, nothing less. If there are even funding problems, they can be solved between first and second readings. Period. So now the principle question is on the agenda: Are you for these people to be given the necessary medical care, or are you against it? Because if you were a fellow Members, you should have come here to this tribune and said the following thing: This bill does not please us enough. That is why we have written another bill, we have tabled it, we want it to be voted on. Is there such a thing? I won't. Which means there is no other alternative. There's an idea on the table, and that's the idea. And whoever does not support it today actually says the following thing: that they do not want health insurance for those in need. Period! Whatever we're trying to do, this is how it works. The cleanest position was of rebirth. They said to each other, "We don't want this to happen. " - Jasna, the job. We never doubted it. However, others who are trying Jesuit to say: "We very much want this thing to happen, but the way you proposed, we do not like it. There's some kind of gap in funding. Colleagues, once the bill is voted in principle at first reading, any problem with funding between first and second reading can be solved and you know that. So now I ask you this: Are you in need of health insurance, or are you against health insurance? That's why we're talking about nothing more, nothing less. And if you're in for it, why don't you come up with another option? Why don't you offer another option if you're up for it? So, fellow Members, of course, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the Bill because when you said you were for humanitarian aid when you said you wanted to help these people, you helped them! That's it! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u141	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Ilin Dimitrov for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Dimitrov, I have a feeling that many people in this room suffer from the effects of Mandela, who distorts the past. Here, we talked here about headquarters, about all kinds of things. To recall a few things and how they love colleagues from GERB headquarters. You picked up the benches, scared people, 5,000 leva. You fined the people who walk around, sprayed in the cities with airplanes on top, your mayors, with disinfectants, genius... [[Noise and lines.]] No, I'm just reminiscing a few things. Secondly, the Migration Headquarters. What became known for the migration headquarters when the Syrians came to claim that you stole the money from the fence. People are very happy about this. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u143	Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u144	Now there is no refugee crisis in Bulgaria and there is no refugee crisis because of the good work of the headquarters, which is now. We don't have tents, we don't have camps, we have some well-placed foreign refugees in hotels. And yes, they will have healthcare because there is no person in this room who will condemn some children to literally die because there is no way to help them. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u145	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Second line, Snow Apostolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! I would like to call on colleagues from GERB to vote for this bill, because, as I recall... [[Noise and lines from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Wait a minute, mate, you've spoken a few times. As I recall, Mr. Borisov at a meeting with the Ukrainian ambassador said he would support all proposals for assistance to Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Apostolova. [[Noise and lines.]] The third line wants Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, I'm really asking you to make a point here. Here you go, Mr. Mitev. I'm really asking the line to Mr. Dimitrov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I cannot agree with you. Your question is, in fact, a single question, whether it is for the sake of, or against, to help, some people who need, obviously, are against, or against. I'll just ask them to take off the ribbons. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u149	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Do you want a hole, Mr. Dimitrov? You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman! I don't want to, and I'm not going into any political confrontation on this subject. But I still pay attention to you, there is only one single proposal to provide health care to the needy people of Ukraine. And this Parliament has two options to support it or not to support it. You're now determining which side you're on. There's no third position. Either you support it or you don't support it. And look, for the people who were saying how concerned they are about the people of Ukraine, the refugees, everything that happens to them, their status, and now, if they don't support this proposal, colleagues, it seems very hypocritical. In order not to be hypocritical, you had to have a proposal. It is better to say: no, this decision is not good enough, we have tabled our bill, which is cleaner, better. But that didn't happen. There's only one idea on the table. So, colleagues, the one who claimed that humanitarian aid was needed, the one who claimed that full cooperation should be given by the Bulgarian state, now it is right and logical, and frankly, to vote for. The other one, I'm sorry, goes into extreme hypocrisy. Consider what you're doing! Moreover, the shortcomings you have spoken about so far, if any, can be removed between first and second readings without problems, including your suggestions. And I call on you this way: vote on the vote now and between first and second read make your proposals. That would be an honorable position. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]] The other is to play and to lie to each other and to explain how we are very concerned about these refugees from Ukraine, however, when they need to be given health care, we cannot vote because we cannot vote in the letter.......................................................................... 13 of the Law funding is not exactly right and we do not like it. Colleagues, this is just not fair, so I hope you change your position. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u151	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u152	I'll take a break, no problem, right away. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act No 47 254-01-30, submitted by Anton Tonev and a group of MPs. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u154	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u156	They voted 190 MPs in the House plus 2 online.. 192: for 156 in the House plus 2 online.. 158, against 6, abstention 28. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The bill was passed in the first vote. All right, here's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we continue the Change I address to all of you and all citizens on the occasion of false news and false claims that are spreading in society, including from MPs and party leaders. With concern there is active disinformation and increased circulation of false news in society. Our concerns are heightened by the visible synchronization between the actions of so-called troll armies with party leaders and activists. Each day we hear a lie about the government and the majority responsible for 100 days. The work of the opposition should not include false news. [[Noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS.]] It should not include propaganda and misleading Bulgarian citizens. The active dissemination of false information began long before the war. As a result of the spread of factually inaccurate statements, we have come to a situation in which society today cannot even be united in whether to help women and children fleeing from war, women and children of a nation who has been involved in the war of liberation and has sacrificed. You are currently assisting the division in society even in the unification of women and children. We MPs from "We continue the Change" insist on ending the hybrid attacks not because they harm all of us, but the Bulgarian society, the people who have chosen us to be here. From frankly false allegations concerning transactions on the State Gas Exchange, with which the state allegedly sold gas and then turned out to be buying, through suggestions about the debt which allegedly increased, and it turned out that it decreased, through manipulations, that we had missed the epidemic, until obviously we did not allow overcrowding of hospitals, but that it was even expected to drop all measures, to an unsolicited attempt at PR against the backdrop of the severe situation with sailors in Ukraine, for which the government provided all the care, objectively there is no way to withdraw them from Mariupol, because the ports there are mined and it is safer for the crew to stay where they are, as is the case with over 30 ships of Turkey, France, Greece and other countries. Including the landing of a crew member who made sure they were safer on the ships. We consider this irresponsible and unacceptable and call for the refusal of the techniques of hybrid war in the name of the national interest of the country and the good of all Bulgarian citizens. We also address the Bulgarian citizens: check the information you are given, compare it with the facts and official data, watch out for the information sources you use to track the news stream. False news directly affects you, your relatives, friends and family. Let's fight this together. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u158	Thank you, Mr. Angov. I'm taking half an hour off until 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We move on to item two of the agenda of the day: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. Importers are Anton Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. A report came in from the leading Committee on Health. Please, Mr. Stoev, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u160	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Health on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-31, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. At its extraordinary meeting on 29 March 2022, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-31, submitted by Anton Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022. The meeting was attended by the Head of Staff of the Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and NGOs. In the performance of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Health before discussing the Draft Law in substance, carried out a check and found that it meets the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Health. The draft and the reasons for the bill were presented by associate professor Anton Tonev, who informed the MPs that the proposed legislative changes created a legal opportunity after the cancellation of the declared exceptional epidemic situation, where necessary in order to prevent further epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act and in order to control the epidemic risk, the Minister of Health on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector may, by order, introduce temporary anti-epidemic measures for the territory of the whole country or for a specific area for a certain period of time. Such an opportunity shall also be offered to the directors of regional health inspections for the territory of the area concerned, in a separate municipality or locality. The measures that may be introduced following the cancellation of an exceptional epidemiological situation shall be of a general nature, such as disinfection, disinsecting and deratising, regular ventilation, physical distance compliance, obligation to wear protective masks by persons in certain public places and others. It is envisaged that anti-epidemic measures may also include the organisation of immunization campaigns, the opening of temporary immunization sites and the formation of immunization teams. In this way, it will help facilitate access for citizens to vaccination and increase the number of vaccinated and vaccinated persons protected by vaccination. The creation of post-vaccinal immunity is a major measure in the fight against vaccine-preventable diseases. Those measures aim to reduce the possibility of transmitting the relevant agent from an infected person to another person. In this way, the number of newly registered cases and the epidemic spread of the disease will be reduced and a subsequent exceptional epidemic situation will not be allowed. The proposed provision of § 2 will also enable health control to be carried out and, where necessary, health requirements may be introduced for persons arriving in the country,............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Prof. Tonev explained that it is explicitly envisaged that these measures should not include a ban on entering the territory of the country and limiting the movement of the territory of the country, as well as the suspension of work of public and/or other objects or services provided to citizens. § 5 amends the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, proposing to extend by three months after the cancellation of an exceptional epidemic situation the existing possibility in 2022. The Ministry of Health to subsidise hospital care facilities to maintain their readiness to provide medical care during the period of declared emergency or emergency epidemic situation. It is also proposed to create a legal possibility after the cancellation of a declared emergency situation, respectively of a declared exceptional epidemic situation and when temporary measures are introduced by order of the director of the regional health inspection under art. 94a, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions, issued under the terms and conditions of art. 94a, para. 1a of the Law on Medical Institutions, the Director of the Regional Health Insurance Fund may enter into a contract under art. 59, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act with healthcare contractors which do not meet the requirements of Section VIII of Chapter 2 of the Health Insurance Act. This legal possibility exists in the legislation in force at the moment, but is bound only by the existence of a declared emergency or an emergency epidemic situation. § 6 suggests that the State Property Act should be extended by three months after the cancellation of an exceptional epidemiological situation, the possibility by an act of the Minister of Health or of an authorised person to provide medical and laboratory equipment, medical devices and personal protective equipment, medicinal products, disinfectants, hygiene and other materials and consumables free of charge to medical establishments. The Act on Medical Institutions proposes to provide for the possibility that the Minister of Health may order regional health inspections to introduce temporary measures and activities for the organisation and restructuring of medical institutions in the territory of the area concerned for a certain period of time when there is an increased number of diseased by contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, which requires hospital treatment and isolation. At the moment, this possibility is bound only by a declared emergency situation or an emergency epidemic situation. The amendments to the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences are intended to be extended by three months after the cancellation of the emergency epidemic situation, the possibility that the Ministry of Health may pay additional remuneration for the performance achieved to employees in the Ministry of Health and its deputy authorising officers working under adverse working conditions during the declared emergency situation, respectively to the emergency epidemic situation, including activities related to the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19. It is proposed that the Law should enter into force from 1 April 2022, as it will ensure the continuation of the activities of medical institutions under the current conditions and arrangements regarding the diagnosis and treatment of the needy persons suffering from COVID-19 as well as the protection of the health of citizens. In conclusion, Assoc. Prof. Tonev explained that the proposed bill will not lead to an impact on the state budget, as the necessary funds for the management of the pandemic and the consequences of the CIVID-19 are provided under the central budget in the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 for a period of six months, respectively in the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. In the Committee on Health on the grounds of art. 31, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 73, para. 7 of the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, civil organizations and citizens have received opinions from the Bulgarian Medical Association. In the performance of art. 73, para. 2 and para. 6 of the National Health Insurance Fund and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria have received opinions from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the National Health Insurance Fund and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of art. 73, para. A public discussion was held at the meeting with the participation of representatives of the word, union, patient, non-governmental and civil society organizations who have provided written opinions on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. The Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists, the Bulgarian Dental Association and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria support the proposed regulatory changes. Some of the opinions contain specific proposals that are outside the scope of the bill under consideration. The presented opinions of citizens and civil society organisations do not support the proposal that the Minister of Health should be given a single order to introduce anti-epidemic measures following the cancellation of an emergency epidemic situation and that the planned extension of the obligation to wear protective masks in closed public places is not supported. A change in the Preschool and School Education Act is proposed to provide for three months after the cancellation of an exceptional epidemic situation to be able to study remotely for students whose parents do not agree to be tested for COVID-19. Assoc. Prof. Vasil Pandov informed the MPs that the Ministry of Health supports the bill under consideration, as it will prevent the immediate endangerment of citizens' lives and health and will not allow the emergence of a subsequent exceptional epidemic situation. The proposed amendments to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 will create the possibility of preserving for a certain period of part of the capacity of medical institutions to provide medical care to patients with confirmed coronavirus infection. This will ensure timely access to hospital treatment for patients in need of hospitalization in the period following an emergency epidemic situation in which hospitals switch to their usual organisation of work. The proposed amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions and the corresponding amendments to the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 will enable rapid response and restructuring of medical institutions in accordance with the needs of hospital beds, thus ensuring the possibility of hospital treatment for all needy citizens. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that the changes proposed are, above all, a matter of legislative appropriateness, with the opinion of the Minister of Health as a body defining and regulating health policy leading to their discussion. It is noted that with the proposed amendments by § 5 and § 8 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law as regards § 14 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 and the Appendix of art. 15a, para. 2 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by the National Assembly Decision of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences in practice, the circle of activities for which the expenditure is to be provided by the State, respectively, from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, is extended. In this regard, from the point of view of the inability to predict what costs the adoption of such norms would lead to and in the context of the rules under art. Art. 19 and art. 119 of the Public Finance Act should be taken into account that, at this stage of the implementation of the budget, financial security opportunities should be sought under EU instruments at the expense of prioritisation of expenditure, including. in the part of the function (s), including under the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and/or under the order of art. 110 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 at the expense of cost savings and/or transfers to the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget under the state budget, as well as the expenses of the central budget for implementation of policies under art. 1, para. 5 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022, including at the expense of the measures related to COVID-19. The opinion of the National Health Insurance Fund was presented by Professor Salchev, who explained that the current anti-epidemic measures are bound only by a declared emergency or an emergency epidemic situation. He noted that the proposed text of § 5's provision could lead to new NHIF contractual partners that were not provided for under a budget procedure for 2022. The management and expenditure activity of the compulsory health insurance contributions to purchase, respectively the payment of health activities carried out by the NHIF, is budget-backed and therefore it is necessary to plan and control the efficient and efficient use of funds that are not unlimited. The limited financial resource for healthcare requires optimization of the allocation, spending and control of the available funds for the conduct of health policy, as well as careful planning of all costs. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to consider a mechanism for payment of additional funds to the staff in the medical institutions which have concluded a contract under art. 59, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act for the treatment of patients with contagious disease, thus ensuring the stimulation and retention of medical professionals on the first line. It is noted that the reasons for the bill indicate a large number of measures that could be implemented but beyond them remains the testing of students for which funds from the state budget have been provided for so far. In the event that such a measure is again necessary at national, regional or municipal level, a target should be provided for them once again. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health raised specific questions regarding the scope of the anti-epidemic measures proposed to be introduced by order of the Minister of Health, outside the conditions of an emergency epidemic situation, as well as ensuring respect for the rights of Bulgarian citizens as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It was noted that it was not clear what state policy would be in terms of limiting the spread of COVID-19 in time between the cancellation of the exceptional epidemic situation and the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Act. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the texts of some of the proposed provisions should be refined between the first and second votes of the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-31, submitted by Anton Yordanov Tonev and a group of MPs on 24 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u161	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This bill should rather be under the heading: Two years of harassment is not enough. Once again, I would like to congratulate the importers on the speed with which this bill is being dealt with. Our bill of ARCHIVER for amendments to the Health Act was tabled December, and only last week entered the plenary at first reading. He was in such a hurry that even the Health Commission report contained false things. We have just heard from the Health Commission that opinions of citizens and civil associations have been received in the Health Commission, only that citizens have informed me that dozens of them have submitted opinions which have been filed under the same No SG-47-221-00-10 of 28 March 2022. Such opinions have not been sent to the Members of the Commission. I don't know how they've been viewed by us since we haven't been notified of their entry. What I would like to emphasise is that legislation must be very carefully refined. You can't look at bills in one day. Even the health committee officials said they hoped the law would pass today and at second reading and enter into force tomorrow, which is some legal absurdity. That's not gonna happen. With regard to the provisions that we are offered to adopt. After all the civil protests, after seeing the public opinion of those introduced only by order of the Minister anti-epidemic measures, and what is being offered to us at the moment is the sole authority of the Minister, without any restrictions. I'm sorry, I don't see anyone carrying their Constitution in this room that was handed out to us on the first day. It does not surprise me at all that the Prime Minister said that the Constitution is for the dead and clearly this is applied in the whole legislative process. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 3 of the Constitution is stated in a state of emergency what is the permissible limitation of civil rights, yet I stress, only in a state of emergency. Two years ago, changes were adopted in art. 63 which practically restricted fundamental civil rights. Then the Constitutional Court did not declare them unconstitutional, but then it was not yet known how these provisions would be applied. The practice has shown that more than 100 have been issued, perhaps 150, orders of the Minister of Health, which have been constantly changed and amended to the point of complete absurdity. Citizens do not know how the next day they will have to go to work or whether they will be able to leave the house at all. All this was not subject to judicial review because the court at the time the case was brought, this order was already amended or revoked and, due to the lack of legal interest, the court dismissed the case, which is why it turns out in practice that these orders are out of control. What is currently being proposed is even more severe without an exceptional anti-epidemic situation, which is announced by a decision of the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Health, at his discretion, on a report by the Chief State Health Inspector, can introduce whatever measures he wants. I do not see any restriction in the measures being proposed, except in the right to move, as well as closing public premises, but what happens to other things? For example, tomorrow, the minister may issue an order that without a green certificate, no one can enter anywhere................................................................................................ Then what are we doing? Given, for example, that in three or four days it is amended or supplemented by this order, the court cannot cancel it. So what do we do? In practice, some rights which are enshrined in the Constitution and which can only be restricted under a state of emergency, adopted by a decision of the National Assembly, we grant them the claim or limitation of them, entirely within the authority of a single person. What if these orders are, for example, unlawful? They have a preliminary performance. So all millions of Bulgarians will have to comply with them without any control and without any restriction. In the Health Act, the changes that we had proposed since the birth were limited in these commandments. They can't be discriminatory, they can't limit the right to work or education, you didn't accept it, and you're offering an absurdity right now. An absolute power of one man, by delegateing normality to the executive power. What should be adopted by a decision of the National Assembly and which should be subject to the strictest control, you are turning it into a legal absurdity by limiting civil rights only by order of the Minister of Health, which is a common administrative act. This is not only serious in terms of the Constitution, but also in terms of all Bulgarians who will be affected by this situation. Of course, there must be authority of the Minister, when there is such a situation, for him to introduce some measures. If today we vote on the proposed text and leave this power to the Minister without restrictions, then tomorrow the Constitution itself will be violated again. We will not be able to control this because even the National Assembly cannot constantly control the Minister how to issue his orders. By the time we cancel one, he'll give up another, and what do we do then? Is this the legislation that the government has to offer us? Violation of the Constitution, neglecting civil rights, complete disregard of public opinion, because if this bill was the subject of a broad public discussion and had enough time for people to express positions, you would have heard their voice, which, unfortunately, you have not heard for two years now. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. A line from Anton Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's a very broad statement, Mrs. Guncheva. I will allow myself to comment and say that in some of yours there is a sense that we might support. About the public discussion. After the deadline for obtaining opinions, we received about 100 letters from citizens who had the same text, but were sent by different citizens. Without accusing anyone, I just wanted to wait for the speeches from the stands and see who will mention these citizens who have failed to hear their opinions, and now we know who created the organization to send the same opinion from 100 citizens. That is what I am saying in connection with the statement from "We are continuing the Change" which we have read today about the false news. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u165	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a second line to Elena Guncheva? I won't. A hole? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u166	Professor Tonev, I understand your concern, but citizens choose how to prepare their complaints. I am not familiar with everyone's text because these opinions have not been presented to the Commission anyway. [[(Reply by National Representative Anton Tonev:]] Even if it is a copier, these are individual citizens who with their signature stand behind this opinion. The Bulgarian family is behind this opinion and I would fully understand that these opinions were received after the deadline for opinions, but the Commission was Mrs. Madeleine Kircheva. She should have spoken before the discussion when NGOs spoke. Then you said that she would speak before the vote and finally her word was given after the vote was over when it was over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. Here you go, Mr. Lachowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u168	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, let's talk a little bit about the bill. It's about what, reading the Bill, is causing me some pretty serious ambiguities. Namely for the funds under art. 5 of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. Dear colleagues, you know, these are the funds that receive all workers in healthcare due to adverse conditions, or 600 BGN. for each doctor, BGN 360. for each specialist in health care, 120 leva. for every orderly. I quote what is written in the amendment of the Law: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency after the word "Observation" is added within three months of its cancellation. "This means that we, by reading this change, are considering that they will continue to receive these funds, right? However, according to art. 5 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund there is precisely and clearly related to the way in which these funds are obtained, namely: For the period of the declared emergency epidemic situation. This means that by canceling the declared exceptional epidemic situation, we cannot give these funds to the Bulgarian medics. Here there is a very serious contradiction between the two laws. The Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation and the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund. That is why, fellow Members, I will abstain from voting on the bill. Between first and second readings, I hope this thing will be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u169	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. Are there any lines to Valeri Lachowski? I can't see. Mrs. Kanazireva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u170	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Prof. Tonev, I have a specific question for you concerning the legal side of the bill. As of tomorrow, there is no more emergency and all orders of RZI fall, as we know. By the time the bill is passed, it will be at least a month or 20 days. So this buffer period, this vacuum that's going to be created, in that time, how are they going to act on a regional, regional level? And I'm just giving you a simple example of how you're going to arrange for these beds to be converted into cots for the period until the bill is passed? Please give me an answer so I can make the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. A line? Here you go, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! Mrs. Kanazireva, you rightly note that such a legal vacuum is created, in which there will be no established norm to give this opportunity. The truth is that we hope the adoption of this law does not take so long. The move and change of structures in the medical establishment has already been established by the current Emergency Act until tomorrow. Practically by the end of next month, there will be no need to create any change by the end of April that threatens the currently established treatment structures. Because, as we all know, the fight against a horse, albeit on a smaller scale, is still going on. The truth is that in dynamic conditions we can always offer something that is a little more flexible, a little more dynamic, but this is our proposal, and we believe that in this way as quickly as possible we will provide a legal opportunity for the fight against a horse in medical institutions to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u173	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Is there a second line to Danny Kanazireva? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u174	Professor Tonev, you hope to quickly accept the bill. But I am speaking to you as a person who has made the organization of the territory of the whole of Plovdiv and I will tell you specifically. I'd booked 20 hospitals, 10 of which private hospitals. These hospitals, if we don't have regulations, in any way, you know they can't be engaged. Currently, in Plovdiv hospitals we have 200 patients, plus a minus, this is a changing number. Starting tomorrow, the beds that we can have will be no more than 80 and this will be for the entire region one infectious ward in St. George's Hospital, and beds in the Karlov hospital. But our municipalities are 18. I give you an example, colleagues, for our region, but it is exactly the same for each region. So tomorrow, we already have 100 patients with us alone, for which there will be no legal basis to reveal these beds in the other hospitals. If there is an increase or increase, I do not want to predict, and I hope there will not be one, but there is indeed a very serious vacuum being created, which will last a month during which we will not have the corresponding number of beds for a form of treatment, but we will have such patients. Because neither the Minister of Health nor the RZI have a legal mechanism, a legal basis on which to issue an order for this month to convert these therapeutic beds into such for a form of treatment. Not to mention that in intensive care beds, the problem is even bigger because we used intensive treatments in private hospitals, for example, because we know that many of the municipal hospitals, even state hospitals, even military hospitals, do not have intensive care beds. If we do not have a therapeutic bed for a horse in other hospitals or in particular in those in which there is intensive treatment, there is no way to transport the patient so quickly. I mean, there's really gonna be a mix-up. Think about it, because this is a serious problem that will arise in every region of the country with beds. You say two weeks, one month, but still there are proposals, there is a second reading, there is a promulgation of the bill. Tell me, how will hospitals work in the meantime? Starting tomorrow in Plovdiv for 100 patients there will be no real beds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Kanazireva. I now give the floor to Jevdet Chakarov. After that, Krasimir Subev. I am also recording Tsveta Galunova and Krasimir Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The DPS will vote abstention because, firstly, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act is financially insecure, and secondly, because its adoption and implementation can lead to problems, and serious, in the system of medical institutions. These aren't just DPS concerns. There are expert opinions on the risk of problems in the healthcare system. According to the manager of the NHIF, the proposal for the heads of the regional health insurance fund to conclude contracts with healthcare contractors that do not meet the requirements of the Health Insurance Act poses many risks. These new NHIF contractual partners will not be foreseen in the preparation and allocation of the Cashier's budget, and in practice the question will arise where funds will be found for them. In addition, there is also a risk of using this text as a door to conclude contracts with new medical contractors and without necessity, relying solely on the assessment of the director of the relevant RHIF. I hope not, but that's not out of the question. As another problem, the manager of the NHIF indicates the possibility to re-enter temporary measures for hospital care facilities to have to book beds for intensive care, as well as beds for patients in uncomplicated condition in different hospital wards. These measures, as we have already seen in practice, lead to a breach of the work of hospitals in general. Since it is mainly about intensive care beds, almost entirely structurally defining state and municipal hospitals are affected at both regional and national level. So far, due to the exceptional epidemic situation, hospitals have received 80% of their monthly budgets regardless of what they have done, as their normal activities have been prevented due to a species of measures. Following the cancellation of the emergency epidemic situation, there is no longer a legal possibility for hospitals to be paid in that order. Thus, when anti-epidemic measures are put in place with an order from the Minister of Health or the Director of RZI, it will again result in bed booking and obstructing the activities of hospitals. They will not be able to perform their clinical pathways and will not receive funds from the NHIF. This will lead to a deterioration in their financial situation, even with risks for their bankruptcy. Secondly, the project is financially unsecured. The problem is not solved by the three-month extension of the possibility for the Ministry of Health to subsidize hospital care facilities to maintain their readiness to provide medical assistance after the cancellation of the exceptional epidemic situation due to a horse, because a deterioration of the epidemic situation in the country can be expected and the need to introduce emergency measures by ordering the directors of RZI during the next autumn-winter season, not now in spring and summer. And then this three-month period will be over after the emergency epidemic situation has been dropped. Unfortunately, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance also gives no greater clarity as regards the financial provision of this bill. Undoubtedly, the bill leads to additional commitments for the state budget and the budget of the NHIF, but to date the amount of these costs cannot be predicted. The possibility of financial security will be sought under European Union instruments and at the expense of prioritising expenditure in the NHIF budget, as well as expenditure in the state budget, including savings and transfers from other senior authorising officers. In practice, the Ministry of Finance does not commit that at this stage it can provide the necessary funds for the financial provision of this bill. This is not responsible behaviour in the complex financial situation in which the state budget and the budget of the NHIF are currently located. As due to the widespread crisis and the refugee crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, unforeseen costs occur, including in healthcare. There is no practice for parliament to adopt financially unjustified bills, fellow Members. It's normal practice. Therefore, we members of the DPS will vote abstention and we hope that these problems will be resolved between the first and second reading of the Bill. What we are saying is very serious because normal practice so far has always been to have a financial justification on the basis of which to consider and to unfold the implementation of the relevant bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u177	Thank you, Professor Chakarov. Are there any lines to Jevdet Chakarov? There are no lines. Krasimir Subev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, Professor Serbenova, colleagues! Many questions arise in this bill. My colleagues who work on the front line ask me: from the first, from tomorrow, will there be financial resources to overcome the consequences of this extraordinary epidemic situation? Someone once said, heroes in white! Yeah, for two years, a lot of people lost sleep, a lot of people didn't know they were taking a break, working and getting some money. You know, this virus won't go away at once. This virus is likely to continue. The question by my colleagues working on the first line is: will there be funds, what will be the methodology? Yes, in the motives of the importer we read: the Ministry of Health will finance these payments for the consequences. I am practically asking the Minister of Health: will there be first funds for first-line workers? Perhaps this is what the importer would like to hear from colleagues who have really given two years of their sleep, their work to overcome this severe epidemic situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u179	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Replices to Krasimir Subev? Docent Tonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Serbenova! Dear Mr. Subev, in the form of a line I will allow myself to answer the question. On the one hand, our bill ensures this thing for another three months, and on the other hand, the negotiation process is currently under way between the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Health Insurance Fund, with a nominal increase in the prices of the clinical pathways being offered for the first-line funds, so that they can be removed from the Help for those working in the health care system during and in times of crisis and become their nominal new income. So there will be funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u181	Thank you. The second line is Assen Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! What I even heard yesterday at the press conference, but I was sure it was true, Ivan Madzharov the President of the Bulgarian Medical Union said it, but in fact this is absolute nonsense. We are currently depriving the people who work on the front line with these 1,000 levs. From what I understand, it's about that 1,000 leva. And we're gonna make sure they start taking more money for clinical pathways from here on out. What happened so far? What has happened since January, when most of the backbone of health hospitals, treated these patients as opposed to other hospitals, and finally those hospitals that have worked more and made more volume in these first three months of the year, now with an old date from 1 January, we will also increase the price of clinical pathways, that is, we will give them even more money and thus even more indebt the public hospitals. I don't think that's good. Do not think that this will be accepted by the people who worked on the front line. What about the secondary officers? Are they going to get that 1,000 leva? For the first line? Maybe that's the answer we should get from Minister Serbenova. Let it rise and say whether it really is, because to align that from now on we will raise income through the clinical pathways, that does not mean that those who care for those who do not end up. Kovid doesn't pass, Kovid doesn't end tomorrow. Yes, that some will stop wearing masks and that they care about what is happening in the country. People continue to treat them, and they will continue to treat them as long as they need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u183	Thank you, Professor Baltov. Is there a third line to Krasimir Subev? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u184	Professor Tonev, I do not understand these funds, which you foresee in increasing the clinical pathways, how will they reach the first-line workers? Professor Baltov was and he was unaware of how the clinical pathways would go to the people on line one? As a resuscitator, I can tell you how hard it is to be on line one. People are dying, you have to go out to the door to tell the relatives that these people died, again to dress up with these precautions and I can't explain to my colleagues: No, colleagues, you won't get them, they'll go through the clinical pathways to increase the clinical pathways, and eventually they'll get to you. I also have a question for Professor Serbenova: with a record very low fiscal reserve, which we are reporting on today's date, where will the Ministry of Health find funds for the first line? Because that's the real question that colleagues ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u185	Thank you, Mr. Subev. And the next statement is by Tsveta Galunova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing another attempt to pass an unconstitutional law which aims to legitimise a medical dictatorship. The proposed changes create prerequisites to violate the fundamental constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. The vaccination campaigns with vaccines, which, according to some specialists, were not vaccines, led us to sign our own personal participation in a medical experiment that justified the exceptional epidemic environment. The proposed amendments to the Health Act aim to allow the continuation of this experiment to be decided by sole administrative persons. And if so far all this was justified by the extraordinary epidemic situation, then now this bill aims to lighten all administrative obstacles to the rapid forced imposition of restrictive measures against the will of one person in the country. This is not a form of democracy, but a dictatorship with the sole power of the Minister of Health. We call on you not to vote on this law in order to stop ineffective measures against the declared pandemic by removing all restrictions introduced by anti-epidemic measures and not to allow them to be legalized in a medical dictatorship. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Galunova. Are there any lines to Tsveta Galunova? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u188	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u189	Oh, I'm sorry. Was that a line, Mr. Kirilov? Okay. I wrote you down for a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u190	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I have witnessed a very nice, very good indicator of trust in the health system. In practice, all that we have discussed so far is a common indicator of trust in the system. What do I mean? We're talking dictatorship in medicine, I have a very clear question: did the Minister of Health have that right two years ago? Yeah, he had it and he introduced it, not once, but repeatedly, but there was no asking these questions. Why? Because there were actions and such certain events that undermined people's trust in the system. What amazes me is that we are here demonstrating and discussing indicators of lack of trust. What does it mean for people outside the hall, in the capital or in the countryside, or in the Rhodopes who are victims? Then I'd like to fill in a few things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u191	Thank you, Dr. Kirilov. Is there a second line to Tsveta Galunova? I won't. Here you go, if you like. You don't want to. Okay, I give the floor to Krasimir Valchev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u192	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Dropping the emergency epidemic situation means that we are moving from a strategy from approaches to collective forced measures to a strategy of personal responsibility. Why do you want to continue to impose forceful measures without an emergency epidemic situation? It is the meaning of this extraordinary epidemic environment, so it is introduced legally as a term and as an arrangement. Maybe you don't have the courage or you want to save money from the state budget, and that's right for doctors. You should, I think, answer that question. I personally have concerns based on the experience of the last two years, mostly on what happened during the caretaker government with Minister Katsarov, that these powers will be used disproportionately to transfer weight mainly to children, educational institutions, teachers. You remember in the fall only, only, the schools were completely shut down, only there couldn't be entered. I am not convinced that there is an understanding at the moment, including in your person, that there is sufficient commitment, awareness of how much the right to education has been violated. I am not convinced that we have learned our lesson, there have been many good, including speeches in this direction from the health authorities of other countries that say: we have learned our lesson. Yeah, two years ago, all the education systems, all the schools shut down. Some switched faster, others slower to training in an electronic environment from a distance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u193	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u194	Almost everyone, okay. Okay, you're entitled to a line, you're going to disprove me. But we've had enough time to learn our lessons anyway. Didn't I hear from you? Will the masks stay in the schools? It's the easiest thing to do to get students to follow the rules. Others, by not being able to make them, by not being able to carry out an effective control of regional health inspections, it turns out that measures are only applied in schools and that only and only students wear masks, and teachers, of course, because they have to educate, must set an example. The system of school and pre-school education has shown that it is the most disciplined, that it is the relatively most read and orderly system and my concerns are that it will continue the disproportionate transfer of burden on students from health authorities. I don't mean the ministers, I mean the RHIs and regional and municipal headquarters that were meeting and who first closed schools, and I also refer to the Chief Health Inspector. They have one sin and it is that undeservedly blamed children and students as the largest distributors, although the majority of research, analysis, metaanalysis showed another and disproportionate burden on children, students and educational institutions. I haven't heard enough of you categorically expressing that you realize that there will be no disproportionate... It may formally have other groups or institutions, but I say again: they will not be respected and in the end only students will continue to wear masks eight hours a day, even more, at the risk of knowing that it is difficult to breathe, damage the brain and so on. By the way, I have another question for you. In the State Budget Act, a change was made to supplement: the means of testing can be used for air purifiers. Thanks, of course, to all MPs, this proposal was accepted. Air purifiers are useful not only in the case of a horse, but also in all other viruses, in general, to provide cleaner air in classrooms as an alternative to absolutely meaningless inefficient testing, as was done. Testing with which we could build 12 schools or more than 20 kindergartens, which obviously did not provide a good filter and safe environment, but I don't know why you kept holding on to this testing. Perhaps you are already indecent of dropping the emergency epidemic situation to continue to hold on to it. The good news is it's gone, but there's still a lot of money left in our account over 60 million. With this 60 million can be bought for all classrooms, even for kindergartens, for all offices, even for higher schools enough air purifiers. Frankly, I was a little stressed by Minister Denkov's statement that they did not provide a sterile environment. No one wants to provide a sterile environment, enough to improve the air. Yeah, they're probably not effective at providing a sterile environment like in an operating room, but they're efficient enough, much more efficient cost, ten times more effective than testing or everyone else. Because you know a lot better than I do that the virus is spreading mostly aerosols at all, and if this investment is made, we will save ourselves, we will help a lot against the expansion, spread of influenza epidemics. You know, children are much more vulnerable there, and in this case we have a virus that is very bad, heavy, but the only good thing was that to a lesser extent it affected children, and thank God it was less affecting children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u195	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines to Krasimir Valchev? Georgi Mihailov, come in, Professor. Then Dr. Simidchiev and Dr. Sylvi Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, I had no intention of taking Mr. Valchev's cue because he was the only person we once greeted as a political party. He had stood with all his authority against the outrageous interruption of the school year, which GERB imposed as a ruling power, and against the backdrop of the fact that the French pediatric association two years ago, Mr. Valchev, came out with one opinion in France and President Macron listened to them, as he listened to them now in January. He first stopped studying the students and said: "Take the children back to school, it is more frightening for them to stay out of school than for the CIVID-19. " Your colleagues have not listened to anyone, and we are the state................... and we are the state...... make a reference if you don't believe I've made this reference with the most inextricable training in the whole of the European Union. That's one thing I want to tell you. You have had the most favourable role in what I congratulate you now, because you were against forcefully applied measures to students and students. The second thing I want to tell you as a specialist is that here you offer something that has no value. I want you to listen to me very well, because I'm dealing with sterile environments for patients who are very vulnerable to infections, whichever device you put in, and our laminar cabinets cost 150,000. The euro one, we create sterile air but in a sterile environment. The other is nonsense, Mr. Valchev, at open doors, when you don't pressurize the environment, whatever you take, not the ones you're talking about, but they're 10 grand each. Euros are not 500 BGN, which do not do any work, it cannot do any work in a non-pressurized environment. These are non-professional proposals and will have no value and will still spend some money madly without having any effect on this part of the nation that you want to take care of. Therefore, I advise anyone who makes such proposals to make a detailed reference, to ask professionals and then to take account of the matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u197	Thank you, Professor. Here you go, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr. Valchev, one point at a time in your speech I take a line and this is with regard to your opinion about wearing masks. As a person who has spent all his professional experience dealing with lung function and the influence of masks including, as well as a constant reference to scientific literature, I can claim from this tribune that masks do not interfere with breathing, masks do not lead to neurological or other side effects, but reduce the incidence of infection between 20%, 40%, in some cases to 60%. Given that they do not affect the economy or other aspects of anti-epidemic measures such as reducing presence, wearing masks has only positive anti-epidemic effects and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u199	Thank you, Doctor. Here you go, Sylvie Kirilov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u200	I will start from Dr. Simidchiev's last words about masks, because there are few people in the hall who have worn masks all their lives, but they have not worn them to protect themselves, but to protect others in certain situations and actions that act. The mask has its effect and we are not discussing it at all, but there are at least 100 other factors that have an effect on the epidemiological process. This is known for some who have taken the test for a long time and for others more recently, but changes in epidemiology are not so cardinal and general so that we can have some new revolutionary currents in anti-epidemic measures. I have a very simple question about the mask is important, and the sick person with a sharp cathartic on the upper airways, without qualifying the reason, seven days to go to the doctor, to the pharmacy, to the hospital, to what else, seven days and to that I am witness, I can confirm it, but the anti-epidemic effect where is stronger?! We need to look at our work that we have created, and we have a private medical problem that has turned it into a social social problem. I think that's where the mishaps and these feelings and relationships to the health system started, which were not good before, and in my opinion, personally as a participant on one side of this process was deliberately sought for this effect on the medical system and on the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u201	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u202	Dear Mr. Mihailov, you know that we have a unique network of Bulgarian Sunday schools in over 50 countries and we collect express information from them once or twice a week. In the spring of 2020 two years ago, everyone reacted extremely, with few exceptions, such as Sweden, and then the chief health inspector apologized for the deceased, felt guilty. The fact is, however, that the second school year 2020, a third of the countries have said what the French President said, which you have quoted, I have quoted, including the Secretary-General of the United Nations, that schools should close last. These academic years said: no, schools shouldn't close at all and not just close last, but shouldn't close at all! But out of this one third of the other countries, some more closed, some less, I am not convinced that we are the ones where students have been for the longest time and with the highest percentage in training in an electronic environment, but this is statistics. Of this one third, who said that the last ones would close schools, finally only France was left. The fact is that when the peak came, when the wave came, when the number of infected reached the limit of the health system, only France stood by it. So the dispute was not at all easy between the right to education and the right to healthcare, but my reproach was to the health authorities that they were somehow not committed enough to balance with the right to education and I did not hear it from the current minister. That's what I was talking about. Mr. Simidchiev, I did not say that wearing masks does not reduce the frequency of infection. I said that my concerns are that once again a disproportionate measure will be imposed on the students. Anywhere else they will not be obliged to wear masks in public transport will not wear masks, in any other facilities they will not wear masks, but there is a good chance that they will remain in classrooms and we will again target children and classrooms as the biggest infectious and therefore the most contagious environment. The way to actually overcome it in part is with the air purifiers - even to buy from those 10,000. BGN, again I claim that it is a cost which is many times more effective than tests and any other. In addition, air ducts can also be made in the new projects that are under operational programmes and so on. There are tests, there is a project in this connection, but even cheaper air purifiers, I'm not talking about BGN 600, can do at least in the coldest epidemic months, when windows and doors are closed, of course, can be excluded, it is a matter of organisation. I continue to think that air purifiers are an effective measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u203	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Sylvi Kirilov, did you want a separate speech or just lines? Here you go. There's no other record of a statement, just to say the least. Yes, Peter Petrov and Andrei Chorbanov recording. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u204	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! We will support at first reading by our parliamentary group the Draft, but we have a lot of remarks and a desire to discuss the productions in the text so that a better effect can be achieved and a more effective model of management of this process. Firstly, I also said in the reply that the Minister of Health has always had this power to determine the epidemiological status in certain areas, either personally or through its structures, which are in individual areas. But the question I think is, do we have updated criteria to date for the different types of infectious diseases, because they are not just air-dropping and viral, but there are bacterial, there are other viruses that are not air-dropped, let's tell hepatitis? That's one. The second is the term we have. Do we have a limit on the time limits that will be set, and by what criteria will these limits be set? That's what we're interested in and we don't have an answer for. We'll look for it between first and second readings. The other thing that impressed us is the provision for allowing the NHIF to enter into a contract for medical aid contractors who have not yet had contracts without specifying for what reason and whether changes to the health card are required and so on. As for what I said in my second line that a private medical problem has become a public policy issue, my thesis, which I have always shared, and here I will share it, is that there are no more general, stronger, more important anti-epidemic measures, and they are all equally important at some point. So the approach has to be different and it has to be integrative, and we've broken it up and everyone's waving a fly like a flag. The approach must be integrative and we must not forget that besides physical means there is also personal, there is public hygiene, there is health education. Why have we forgotten the health education that cultivates all hygiene and health habits, including nutrition? To understand, I gave the example of the mask earlier and with seven days of movement. I have an example with which I would tell you where it is more dangerous in the classroom, where there are 20 or 30 children who are one collective for 12 months a year and nine months are in this environment... In nature there is no absolute sterility and we live in a cloud of bacteria and viruses, we have built a biological balance and we have some kind of public contract with them, but there are circumstances under which this contract is broken and we get sick. We do not enter into this problem, but that does not mean that we need to stop working and moving, live private and public life, because there were viruses, viruses there will be, and we need to learn to live with these viruses according to the rules of science, the medical one that defined them according to the knowledge acquired at this time. Perhaps the most important thing I took the floor for is that doctors, medical professionals and participants in the medical-diagnostic process should receive these funds further, so-called additional material stimulation. I am not a financier to discuss the financial instruments with which this objective will be achieved, but this is one of the issues that we will discuss between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines to Sylvie Kirilov? I won't. For a cue, Iva Miteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u206	Dear Lord Kirilov, I wondered very much whether to make a statement or a reply, but I preferred to replicate you. Yes, the money for medical professionals is needed and they must be given. The point is that it seems that this bill is blurring the border, removing the line between an emergency epidemic situation and measures and consequences after the cancellation of the emergency epidemic situation. That's what worries me the most about this bill. Because medical professionals are scheduled to extend the deadline for providing these funds by three months, and at the same time there is no time interval in the Law and after the cancellation of the epidemic situation it is said: This term can be endless, it can be for years. Yeah, you're right. There's probably been a line and a way in which measures have been taken. The question is, however, whether these measures lead to a restriction of rights. And here I will remind you of Constitutional Court Decision No 10 of 2020, which we all very carefully need to read before the second vote on this bill, because we must very carefully monitor the border and find the balance between the care for people's health, the protection of their rights and between what we want to achieve. This, I think, really, must be very carefully refined, because at some point it may be that measures are being introduced that almost overlap with the measures that were needed during the epidemic situation. And I will only ask for the completion of the project, yes, the provisional measures envisaged will not be able to stop the operation of sites, including the movement of the territory of the country, but it remains a very important measure and it is a limitation of the exploitation and operation of public-use sites and/or other sites and services provided to citizens. Why this remains in the Law, it is a surprise to me, including any other measures that the Minister may impose. So I propose that we really very carefully focus on the amendments to this law between first and second votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Is there a second line? I won't. Would you like a hole, Mr. Kirilov? There's no desire for a doppelganger, okay. Peter Petrov for speech. All I'm asking is to extend the group's time. Mr. Petrov, you have about one minute left and three more at the time of the four.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my speech will be in the spirit of the Bill at first reading and I will focus on this notorious article. 63. Frapant is that when we from AGE propose changes in art. 63 of the Health Act with a targeted bill, the same aged about two months, two and a half months before reaching the Chamber at first reading. On the other hand, when the ruling coalition brings changes to art. 63 of the same bill, cashtakingly the same powers of the Minister of Health, about six or seven days, if we count today, are sufficient to pass overtime through the Committee on Health and enter the Chamber. So I was wondering why that was. Because there is a gradation in government of the state, and more precisely of the health system. The most democratic option, which was a state of emergency, which was introduced by a decision of the National Assembly, lasted about two months, evolved into one thing, which was called an extraordinary epidemic situation, which was respectively managed by the Council of Ministers, by the Minister of Health, at the beginning of one headquarters and so on. However, tomorrow ends, it cannot last forever and it evolves to something new, which is called changes in art. 63 which allow, in fact, give a broad freedom to the Minister of Health to introduce, at his discretion, some measures that are not listed on top of it. It's written:.. can include..... I think that in the Bulgarian legislation I have never seen another case where, when the so-called collective rights of a large group of Bulgarian citizens are concerned, it can be described in this way: At least because it wasn't written despite what was mentioned in the proposed new para. 12 what they can't include. Very clearly, they cannot include restrictions on constitutionally guaranteed rights of Bulgarian citizens, something that was present in our similar reciprocal bill of the same article. 63. On the one hand, we wanted to limit the uncontrolled opportunities to be given to the Minister of Health, and on the other hand, we see with today's bill that not only such uncontrolled freedom is given to the Minister, because he clearly does not want to take responsibility, so he can delegate them to the directors of regional health inspections and they can decide what measures to take in the area concerned. I personally cannot agree with this and in order not to think that the Bill is indisputable, because here in this Chamber for the first time I have heard that there was such a thing as an undisputed bill, of course, I am obliged to make a proposal in para. 10, the proposed para. 10, one amendment to this bill, namely the Minister of Health, not on a proposal from the State Health Inspector, but on a decision of the National Assembly to be able to introduce these measures. I believe that we should go back in the beginning to the most democratic form of government in the country, namely the National Assembly, to decide what measures to apply to the territory of the whole country, not to give an uncontrolled power to the executive to take these decisions. Because evident from what happened in the last two years, it is not at all in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, nor in the interests of small, small and medium Bulgarian business. I therefore believe that we, as MPs, should assume our responsibility, which motivates me to make the specific amendment proposal in particular in para. 10, which we are offered with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u209	And thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? I won't. Professor Andrey Chorbanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, I will try to summarize what we do not like and what we think should be changed, but unlike Professor Kirilov, who was very ethical and very kind, I will be a little sharper. Of course, the topics that discuss this law should be discussed with many specialists, a wide number of specialists, but certainly not discussed with specialists in the field. That's more than obvious. Texts and paragraphs are present that we simply cannot accept. Being loyal coalition partners, we will support the Law at first reading to enable all of this to be discussed and corrected in a working group in which the norms of conduct can be inserted, which can be controlled by society. I fully agree that the Minister of Health had many functions and opportunities before the emergency, and he used them over the years. However, the lack of deadlines and limits really makes it possible that in practice, two years the minister could determine what was happening in the state in every respect of life, business, lifestyle, all of this. However, this thing must be controlled and it must be possible. Therefore, I do not think that the Minister should acquire more power than he has at the moment. Why am I saying this? Because that would give us an opportunity to improvise, would give us a single opinion instead of a collective. Only today from this tribune we have heard dozens of improvisations on this topic, improvisations on the topic of how the pandemic will continue. No specialist in this world would be asked to tell how the pandemic will continue... whether it will end tomorrow or in two weeks. Therefore, any such forecast is extremely speculative. That brings up bad thoughts, scaring people, and so on. Of course, the introduction of additional measures and the possibility of introducing measures outside an officially declared emergency situation would be an extremely serious restriction, which we will definitely not support. We cannot agree with the introduction of a restriction for the entire population, instead of finding a specific targeted approach, as Professor Kirilov said, to find a way to treat the sick without limiting the healthy. This has not been done as a procedure so far and absolutely no protocol has been developed how to do it. After all, the restrictions were for everyone. It is natural that what there has not been so far is a truly specialized body to come out with its face as a specialist for making all the specific decisions in this area. We also believe that it should be introduced as a norm and as a form for a specific reaction to a specific pathogen. Because tomorrow, purely theoretically, something else may appear differently, with another way of spreading, we have to have protocol to react to, we have to have norms. Giving RZI an opportunity to make their own decisions, I also think it is extremely revolutionary, not from another point of view, but from the fact that it will enable people to express their fears extremely sharply, and people's fears are usually realized as restrictions immediately. This should be delegated by the Minister, not specific measures taken. If there is an official epidemiological situation, the authority of the Minister should be the one to determine what to do and how to do on the spot. Giving people on the ground to make such decisions will result in them, fearing that responsibility, taking it immediately and introducing these restrictions. Of course all of this has to be... There was a public discussion, in fact, a very serious public discussion. From the moment the Bill was published, thousands of people wrote, thousands. They fear these additional powers. These people fear that, like elsewhere, the minister may decide to introduce compulsory immunisation of specific groups of people without this immunisation being included in the immunization calendar. And this immunization calendar is included in special procedures and in ways that are controlled. This would lead to extremely severe public tensions and reactions among the population. I therefore very much hope that everything will be taken into account and that we will be able to present for a second vote a much more improved bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u211	And thank you, Professor Chorbanov. The line.. Associate Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! Professor Chorbanov, without wanting to create any further controversy and inviting you to join the working group with which to discuss your proposals to improve this bill, just a brief question: who do you think creates more public fears? Laws such as this or public speaking what scary measures can possibly be introduced, such as mandatory vaccinations and the like. I'm asking for an answer, Professor Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u213	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Is there a second line to Andrei Chorbanov? I won't. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Tonev, of course a discussion in the public domain without law is a bad thing. All versions are commented and there is no specific bill that says what to do, people make improvisations. And improvisations became clear that they didn't lead to anything good. There are opinions, lots of false news coming out, things being said that aren't true. Why? Because we didn't put a frame to fix it. That is why we want the Bill to be made so that there is no possibility of any false news at all and people being calm and knowing that they will accordingly receive an adequate response if any medical situation occurs. That's what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u215	Thank you, Professor. There are no other entries to make a statement. Professor Kostadin Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is another bill that is being presented for a change in the health system in times of crisis by importers who do not seem to know how the system works. I'll argue with facts. In this bill there are two crucial moments. The first crucial moment is the suspension of the payment of 1000 BGN. for the first line and the payment of the additional 600, 360 and 120 BGN. for workers in hospital care facilities. There have been many speeches from this parliamentary tribune to ask the Minister of Health: what does Professor Serbenova think about these issues? I think whatever we ask her, she can't answer anything other than what's written in the Law. I would like to read to you the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. Article 5, para. 1: "For the period of the declared exceptional epidemic situation due to the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act by transfer from the central budget of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be provided funds for the payment of additional salaries of the staff, the performers of hospital medical care for each month as follows: doctors This means, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and Bulgarian citizens who are watching from 1 April stop paying the additional wages of 600, 360 and 120 BGN. of those working in the Bulgarian healthcare system in hospital care facilities. With regard to the so-called 1000 leva. When we talk about additional funding for the first-line workers with 1000 BGN, we learned from the Chairman of the Health Commission that these 1000 BGN. will be used in the negotiations between the word organizations and the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund to increase the prices of clinical pathways. This cannot definitely happen because the right to expenditure for these 1000 levs. it is specifically given in this room. £1,000. for the first line are voted by the National Assembly and give the right to expenditure, namely transfer from the budget of the state to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the purpose of the goal of BGN 1000. on line one. That 1,000 leva. cannot be used for health insurance payments and enter as an increase in the price of clinical pathways. That is why the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is, which says that: "No matter what, we reserve that the amendments proposed by the Bill, and in particular the changes in § 5 and § 8 of the Final Provisions in respect of § 14 of the Final Provisions of the NHIF Budget Act for 2022 and Appendix.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 15, para. 2 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, the expenditure to be covered by the State budget, respectively from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, does not have the corresponding budgetary impact. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance could not share, as justified by the importers, in the reasons for the bill and in the preliminary assessment of the impact that the proposed changes would not lead to new costs and other financial consequences. This is in terms of 600, 360, 120 and 1000 BGN. The first - line workers will not receive them from April 1st. They will not receive them because the Minister of Health has no right to expenditure outside the declared emergency epidemic situation to make a transfer to the National Health Insurance Fund to distribute them to the first-line workers. Secondly, when I read the reasons of the draft law and the law itself, I see that its aim is to create an opportunity after the cancellation of the declared exceptional epidemic situation and, if necessary, to prevent subsequent epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, as well as in order to control the epidemic risk, the Minister of Health on a proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector may, by order, introduce anti-epidemic measures throughout the country or for a specific area for a certain period of time. The reasons are that these measures will reduce the number of newly registered cases and will not allow a subsequent epidemic situation. When considering this proposal, we need to bear in mind that the wording of art. 61, para. 1 includes diseases other than COVID-19, such as anthrax, brucellosis, smallpox, diphtheria, cholera, plague and other infectious diseases. Here my question under § 2 of the Bill is: why specifically in art. 63 a new para is created. 12, which states that anti-epidemic measures cannot include a ban on entering the territory of the country and limiting the movement of the territory of the country, as well as the suspension of the operation of public and/or other sites or services provided to citizens? What if one of these infectious diseases under art. 61 causes significant morbidity or mortality, or is its scale rapidly increasing? In such circumstances, this para. 12 Would it not restrict the Minister of Health to apply the basic measure which can prevent the epidemic spread of the relevant contagious disease? One more thing. A very dangerous precedent is set, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, namely my second question relating to § 5 of the proposed bill: why in the new para. 2 of § 10 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 states that even if no exceptional epidemic situation has been announced, only in the case of an increased number of persons suffering from contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act, which needs hospital care or isolation and hospital care, the director of the relevant regional health inspection may restructure medical institutions, change the number of beds in hospital care facilities and introduce other measures under art. 94, para. 2 of the Law on Hospitals? Why, as stated in the reasons of the draft law, it is necessary for the Director of the Regional Health Insurance Fund to be able to enter into a contract under art. 59, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act with performers of medical care who do not comply with the Health Insurance Act, provided that no exceptional epidemic situation has been declared? Here is created a serious precedent and an opportunity with medical institutions that do not meet the medical standards to be obliged the director of the regional health insurance fund to enter into a contract, namely this is dangerous for Bulgarian citizens. Because in these hospitals we cannot guarantee a quality level of medical care because they do not meet medical standards. It is in this regard that the National Health Insurance Fund gives a negative opinion, saying: The proposed text hides many risks. One of these risks is new contractual partners of the NHIF, which were not foreseen. The activity of managing and spending the funds from compulsory health insurance contributions for payment, the purchase of health activities carried out by the NHIF is budget-backed and therefore planning and control is necessary for the efficient and efficient use of funds that are not limited. What does the Ministry of Finance tell us and what does the National Health Insurance Fund tell us? Dear colleagues, the bill you are proposing to amend the Health Act must be very seriously thought-out, thought-out. Because, first, you set a precedent in the system of Bulgarian healthcare, which puts the lives of Bulgarian citizens at risk. With regard to the deprivation of doctors, nurses and nurses from their additional salaries, we consider this to be an absolutely inappropriate and ridicule to the efforts of all those people who, over more than two years, have been struggling with COVID-19. That is why our parliamentary group will not support this bill. We will make substantial proposals between first and second readings, which will, first of all, remove the introduction of precedents in Bulgarian healthcare; and secondly, return justice to those working in the hospital health care system and primary outpatient medical care. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u217	And thank you, Professor. Replies to Kostadin Angelov? I won't. Another statement? Professor Georgi Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, a procedure for extending the working time until the end of the point, if I may, to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u219	I put to the vote Professor Georgi Mihailov's procedural proposal to extend the meeting until this point is exhausted. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u221	And Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u223	Thank you. They voted 123 MPs in the House and 2 online. 125 total: 122 in the Chamber and 2 online. 124 total, not against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Reply: "Prevoting! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u224	Okay, we're rethinking the proposal. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u226	And Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u228	They voted 119 MPs in the Chamber and 2 online " 121" total: 119 in the Chamber and 2 online " 121" total, no opposition and no abstentions. It was accepted the first time. And in matters of the quorum, I will obviously have to take a final attitude. Come in for a speech, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Serbenova, honourable colleagues! It has actually been 24 months and 16 days since the beginning of the pandemic situation, which has affected Bulgaria since the first state of emergency was declared. Many memories carry each one of us in his heart. I'm a little surprised that at the end of all this, naturally, that the infection will continue to exist, that all the specialists know that, instead of being pragmatic, looking for a way back faster and more normal to the systemic way of life, here we are dealing with creating fake news, creating public sentiments. Indeed, some of us are obsessed with the idea that some electoral periods are coming and are constantly jumping around microphones and saying things that do not correspond to the truth. But some things correspond to the truth, and I will remind them both of them and of those who cooperated with it. At the time, one political force was against, since the others were not in the Chamber, which are currently here. And I'll remind you that in art. 61 those who brought in COVID-19 along with anthrax, plague, cholera, ebola were you. This supreme nonsense you did then with the roller of the majority, you were even willing to impose violent treatment by a decision of the Minister of Health. You remember him, don't you? You don't remember it, Professor Angelov, because you weren't in the room, but everyone else remembers it, and it was also passed through the Legal Commission, through expertise, legal, and it had reached the top of the stupidity here to vote in the Chamber. We're gonna get rid of it now. We'll get rid of it. COVID-19 will not stand in this sad line. And for that reason, the questions you ask have their rhetorical answer to para. 12 and so on. That's one. Secondly, I don't understand here, with all due respect to Professor Kirilov, he very accurately told you to all of you................... did they have these rights before the Minister of Health? There was, of course. For as long as I can remember, a student, a young doctor, an assistant, an associate professor, a professor, a hospital director, a high-tech student, always had them. How do you imagine that he will abuse, colleagues, with this under the supervision of advice and experts, national consultants, the whole society? Here to offer such Jacobin mannerisms in the parliament, here we will decide when a flu anti-epidemic situation will be declared, as a COVID-19, whatever! Please! Please, this is not serious, and that's how the law works. And he arranges something else for the Minister of Health to be able to do, as the incidence sees that it is different, colleagues, watch the map every day in the country for two years, it is different in different regions, they have a different urban factor. Whoever doesn't understand epidemiology doesn't know how many factors. Kirilov said it again over 150 factors. In fact, Angelov repeated it here that there will be a number of factors when this epidemic occurs in Bulgaria. It is not just one factor that is.. whether masks are worn, what is the number of the sick of 100 thousand. Many factors are being monitored. And because the urban factor of the population, the location of the population and many other factors, age, whatever else, matters, so regional health inspections, and this has been done by former ministers, gave them rights to these regional health inspections. This is what we are doing at the moment as proposers of this law for amendment and supplement. And the last and most important thing, everyone is tired, there is no point in long speeches, do not plant in the professional society that funding the footage will not continue. This is done, it will continue, and how will we solve it after July 1st, there are some grounds here. This carousel, which has been doing for decades in Bulgarian healthcare and which has accumulated half a billion debts of hospitals, and the hospitals that work the most, said you, Professor Angelov, that the most working hospitals have the greatest debt, must somehow be interrupted. This is our task, we will carefully consider its resolution and present it to the whole society through the specific bill. So let's not go on wishing... Here, by the way, what you said about NHIF, it can easily be realized between first and second readings. That is what your colleague before you said, you are only repeating it in one of the first speeches. All this will happen between first and second readings. Nothing will be harmed, neither the payment of the footage, nor the system of work, nor the sick will remain anxious. At least those fears you're trying to plant, that's something very unethical about the nation. At the end of this serious trial, I would like to say to all of you who have gone through this subject, not with your professional interests, and you do not have to go through it, I have to tell you that we have met some scientific studies in Japan, in Spain, in France, in other parts of Europe and the world, you have no idea how much toxiccomans have grown among young people, attempts to commit suicide after these two years of pandemic, divorces in the world. Let's not keep this pressure on people. It's terrifying on their psyche. Let's adopt this bill at first reading, between first and second to solve the issues that exist in it, there is such a working group, announced him associate Tonev, who will deal with this thing, everyone is welcome, and let's end this matter for now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u230	Thank you, Professor. Professor Tonev for a line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister. Professor Mihailov, I will use my right to reply only once again to confirm your words to all MPs and to our viewers. Our bill allows for continued payments for doctors, nurses and nurses if it is accepted. So, Professor Mikhailov, the payments will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u232	Thank you, Professor Tonev. Second line? Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mikhailov, accept my personal congratulations to you. I understand the role the ruling coalition has assigned to you, so as a personal defender you can protect me when I speak. You've mentioned my name four times in your speech, so we'll play a very good game if we start playing it like people. But congratulations on one more thing. Congratulations on canceling the pandemic. It's the best thing that can happen. However, the facts are different and we will see them. However, when we talk about lies and suggestions, well, remember the words you said, and another person who spoke after you that you guaranteed the payment to doctors, nurses and nurses from 600, 360 and 120, from April 1st onwards! That's what I say most responsiblely from this tribune, that's not true. And I read you the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. And to claim to me that between first and second readings you can make an amendment to the Law that you are proposing is unacceptable because this amendment is a substantial amendment to the bill proposed by you. So let's say yes once again, you allow under the Emergency Measures Act to receive 1000 BGN. on the first line, only I do not know how the Minister will transfer these funds from the Ministry of Health to the Casa, because he is not entitled to such expenditure, as there is no exceptional epidemic situation, and his right to this cost is only this. These funds can also be obtained, only since 1 April there has been no methodology, as the methodology must be developed by the National Health Insurance Fund. And the things I'm telling you right now, you can call the Cashier and check. Call her manager, see what he tells you. And if he confirms my words, you'll apologize from this tribune. If you don't, the doctors, nurses and nurses will send them to you to give them 600, 360 and 120 leva. April 1st. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u234	Thank you. And a third line. Wait, Mr. Valchev. [[Heckling]] That's right, yeah, we alternate groups. That's what I was gonna tell you. Here you go, Mr. Christov. No lines from place, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u235	Dear Professor Mihailov, I'm going to continue something you forgot. These days, cleaning in my car, I came across two documents. Colleagues, that's an open list. Do you remember what an open sheet means? Those were lists I dated and went to work with. And now to convince me that we do nothing and that we will do nothing, colleagues, I assure you that this law, no matter what happens, no more Bulgarian citizens will have these open sheets. Let us recall what time these open sheets were and by whom they were introduced. Were they introduced by a doctor? They were introduced by someone who wasn't here and had nothing to do with medicine. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u236	Thank you. A hole, Professor, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u237	We're closing this discussion, I guess we're closing it. The time of the groups is almost consummating. I'm very flattered, but I can't imagine this relationship with you, I'm your quarterback, because you don't strike me as an attacker. [[crowd cheering, laughing]] Professor Angelov. You don't strike me as an assailant. In addition, I want to tell you that in life one of my greatest teachers, Professor Bobev, God rest his soul, said: "The greatest task of every man is to protect himself. And I didn't want to remind you, here Dr. Hristov... I won't recall all this: the guard Vitosha, the closed Bansko, the ripped benches, the chasing with the police of mothers with carts, the plagues that ruled on TV screens, the scary plague all this was not our doing, Professor Angelov. It wasn't our doing, and these boring, mind-blowing press conferences in the morning and evening that flooded the Bulgarian society and created in the people a heavy one there is an accurate word in medicine. All this, thank God, is over. The pandemic is also ending, it is not ending the infection. Do not confuse these notions, you are an infection specialist. So let's vote on the bill, and let's leave the defense and the attacks to those who deal with this thing. The important thing is to move on, to help the nation move on and to make it possible with this bill to respond to all the next challenges that may come before us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u238	And thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Any other speeches? I won't. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, for all the viewers who are watching us, I would like to make some clarification and clarification, as I listened very carefully to the debates and made notes. Regarding payments to medical professionals, they are two types of payments, and Professor Angelov correctly noted. With regard to the funds on the first line of the so-called 1000 BGN, it is a matter of negotiations, of course, between the Bulgarian Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund, and these funds can be extended up to three months after the suspension, not the extension, of the emergency epidemic situation. However, there are some other specialists, but not those in hospitals who are also on line one and are struggling with the pandemic, with the infection or as we call it, and these are the specialists from regional health inspections. They are CSMs, which are also on line one, and for them the funds are provided by the budget of the Ministry of Health and if you do not accept this bill, there is actually no possibility to pay within three months, and that is the difference I told you just now, for medical professionals in hospitals. As for the funds that you have quoted. 600, 360 and so on, which stop after the announcement of the end, that is, the non-continuation of the emergency epidemic situation, there are at present talks about a methodology for permanent increase........................... whether it will be through the prices of the clinical pathways and whether this is the most appropriate option, or whether it will be towards the basic salary with a collective contract, these are actually talks that are currently taking place on a daily basis, hourly basis, I would say, and in this sense I also accept the words of associate Tonev that this will be guaranteed. After all, as Professor Mihailov said, and many of you here said, the pandemic is something that will pass, the infection may stay with us for a while. However, given this debate, which we will have tomorrow in the Parliamentary Hall for the detention of personnel, medical professionals and healthcare professionals, they must receive their support permanently, not only when there is a pandemic of COVID-19. You said about the parks, the checkpoints, and the social networks were hiring dogs so people could walk quietly, so medical dictatorship I couldn't see as something that could be associated with the current management of the COVID-19 pandemic. With regard to anti-epidemic measures, regional health inspections have, indeed and so far, been able to coordinate their measures through regional headquarters, through coordination with the state health inspector, as there is indeed a difference in morbidity between the individual areas. There are some anti-epidemic measures that, with the dropping of the emergency situation, will not be able to be imposed even at regional level, and there is nothing scary about that. This is for example wearing masks, disinfection, the distance between 1.5 meters between people. In many countries where masks have been removed in public places, hospital hospitals are also mandatory in public transport, while at present it will not be possible to do so unless these changes are voted on. With regard to whether we have communicated what is failing, what is not dropping, I want to assure you, yesterday we had a briefing one hour and 11 minutes and two TVs broadcast it, we answered the questions of health journalists, the recordings are on the Internet, so it can be heard, as some of the MPs said they have not heard from me what is dropping, what is not dropping and what is going on, so these debates and debates are there. Since we talked about the common criteria and whether there are criteria in the Health Act, there are those in terms of assessing the specific epidemiological situation. The treatment of COVID-19 should be untied with an excuse for the expression, whether or not of an emergency epidemic situation, as we do not treat other diseases only when there is an increased risk and spread by them. The European Commission is clear that when these measures are lifted, there must be flexibility and there must be targeted interventions and, of course, they are not at the discretion, I assure you, the Minister of Health, but taking into account national consultants, health experts, epidemiological data, the Chief State Health Inspector, reports and at all an approach based on science. As for whether or not to be a decision of the National Assembly on the imposition of measures for keeping distance, disinfection, we will really surprise the European Commission with such an approach, but of course it is in your hands. In conclusion, I do think that much of these questions that you have raised should and can be clarified between first and second readings. I would just like to mention that these measures, which we have quoted and proposed, have nothing to do with Ordinance No 15 of immunizations, that is to say the introduction of a mandatory nature of immunization is not an anti-epidemic measure. Thank you for your attention and for your fruitful discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u240	Thank you. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, I hope you will forgive me. I have not been able to get a fourth line, but Minister Serbenova has not answered one of my questions and my request to you is to ask her to answer why this bill is required? Because the emergency epidemic situation has to go away, but who said it has to?! I didn't understand who said I had to. For me, there are three possible explanations, but I rather reject the first two. One is that you want to save money. I am sure that you will do so and after three months the doctors will not receive funds, Mr. Tonev said. The other thing is you don't have the guts. Why shouldn't you have the courage if you're going to take other measures and still have to be brave?! Thirdly, the most likely explanation is that our Prime Minister, who doesn't always know what he's saying and what he's doing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u242	Please, no offense, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u243	...promised to eliminate the emergency epidemiological situation. Is this the reason we are looking at this bill, that the Prime Minister has promised to cancel the virus and the emergency epidemic situation, that we must now make a change in the Law outside the emergency epidemic situation so that anti-epidemic measures can occur?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u244	Thank you, it's clear that you don't have to... There are no requests for a speech or for a procedure. I'm calling off the discussion. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 47-254-01-31, submitted by Anton Tonev, Yordanka Kostadinova, Stoil Stoilov, Ivaylo Hristov, Alexander Simidchiev, Galina Georgieva and Georgi Mihaylov on 24 March 2022. Please vote regime. Georgi Ganev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u246	Miroslava Petrova?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-31.u248	They voted 182 MPs in the House and 2 online " 184": for 119 in the House and 2 online " 121," against 24 MPs who abstained 39. The motion is accepted. Before closing the meeting, I will read you the parliamentary control message for tomorrow, April 1, 2022. I. Question Debates. Debates on asking the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Asena Serbenova on the policy of the government to overcome the shortage of doctors in certain specialties and nurses and to detain young doctors and nurses in Bulgaria. II. Questions and questions: - Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer three questions from the MPs Kiril Simeonov; Alexander Simidchiev; Elisaveta Belobradova; and Yuseyin Weyselov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov will answer two questions from the MPs Stefan Mirev; and Manol Genov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Radostin Vassilev will answer a question by the National Representative Denitsa Nikolova; - The Minister of Internal Affairs Boyko Rashkov will answer 90 questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov (three questions) ; Elhan Kulkov (three questions) ; Pavlin Krastev (three questions) ; Adlen Shevked (four questions) ; Bajram Bajram (four questions) ; Devdet Chakarov (three questions) ; Halil Letifov (four questions) ; Sevim Ali (four questions) ; Escheref Escheref (four questions) ; Stanislav Anastasov (three questions) ; Peter Chobanov (four questions) ; Tsvetan Enchev (four questions; Fatme Mehmed (four questions) ; Dimitar Avramov (four questions) ; Ramadan Atali (four questions (four questions) ; Güner Ahmed (four questions) ; Tztan Enchev (four questions - Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov will answer three questions from the MPs Stoyan Taslakov; Blagovest Kirilov and Ivan Petkov; and Angel Georgiev; - Justice Minister Nadezhda Yordanova will answer a question from the MP Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Petrov and Zornitsa Stratieva and one question from the MP Mladen Shishkov; - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer one question from the MP Branimir Balachev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer a question from the National Representative Mumun Mumun; - Culture Minister Atanas Atanasov will answer one question from the MP Tsveta Galunova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 97, para. 2 of the MNS and due to a business trip outside the country in the parliamentary control meeting will not participate: - Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Climate Policies and Minister for Environment and Water Borislav Sandov; - Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov. Due to urgent commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Kiril Petkov will not participate. Due to illness, answers to questions with written answer from the Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov are postponed. That's why I'm closing today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
