ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please register. 136 MPs are registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 15 June 2022: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property. 5. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Energy Act. There are three bills. One is with importers Daniel Petrov and a group of MPs; the other with Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs and the third is with importers Toshko Yordanov and a group of MPs. 6. First vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. 8. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2021 9. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2021 10. Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021 On Friday 17 June 2022, point 1 is replaced by the following: 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This is the project I proposed. Please, voting mode. Vote 220 MPs: 164, against 46, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first proposal is from the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Tomislav Donchev. The proposal is to hold a hearing of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior on an airplane that violated the Bulgarian airspace on 8 June 2022. The proposal is to include the item as first for Thursday, but after a discussion of the Presidential Council, the proposal becomes the point to be first for Friday. This is the proposal of Hristo Gazhev and Tomislav Donchev. Voting mode. Vote 224 MPs: 172 against 42, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The next proposal, fellow Members, is from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people." The proposal is to hold a hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the process of accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union and to decide on the approval of a negotiating framework. The proposal is to be point one for Wednesday. [[Reply: "For indoors or outdoors?"]] Closed. Let's face it first, and then we'll pass on whether it's indoors or outdoors. The offer is closed. Then we will vote on whether it should be closed. We are currently voting on whether or not there should be a hearing. Vote 228 MPs voted: 116, against 103, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 230 MPs: 117, against 108, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Two more proposals have been made in the order of art. 47, para. 3 which are inadmissible. The first is from the MP Desislava Atanasova. The proposal is like a t. 2 to include in the Programme a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code submitted by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, but since there is no report and the deadline for submitting such a proposal is unacceptable. And the other proposal is from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT, such as this. 1 on the agenda for the week and first on Wednesday to be the Bill amending the Financial Supervision Commission Act. The proposal is inadmissible because an identical proposal in the same order was made on 25 May and was rejected by the plenary, which is why it cannot be raised again in that order within one month thereafter. Procedure? Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! My procedure is for admission to vote on this proposal with the following arguments: Firstly, Mr. Chairman, the demonstration that this National Assembly and the chairmen are following the Rules, the Constitution, the laws seem absolutely illegal in view of everything we have observed over the past six months. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, yes, this bill was submitted by BSP, importers are Georgi Svilenski and Philip Popov. He arranged for the possibility for Bulgarian citizens to be able to vote with a paper ballot and not with a machine during the electoral process. This bill is extremely timely and must be discussed in plenary, and I cannot explain, Mr President, how did the Chair of the Legal Committee not find time for two months to examine it?! That is why we have asked for this to happen in plenary without a report. There was such a case when another chairman of another committee for a month did not prepare a report. You remember, don't you, colleagues? It's about that temporary committee, Mr. Ribarsky is against me. You, Mr President, during these two months have also failed to exercise your powers given by the Rules and by the Constitution, nor to schedule a meeting of the Legal Committee with such an agenda, nor to ask the Chair of the Legal Committee of your Parliamentary Group to convene such a meeting and examine this bill. I therefore ask you to put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I will not put the proposals to the vote, as the deadlines have not expired, as I said. Lyubomir Karimansky goes first, then Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With a calm and equal tone, I will offer you something without emotion. I propose that the two draft laws be amended and supplemented by the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund and the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act to be exchanged as points. My argument is as follows: first, when we look at the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law of State Social Security, there are insurances that must be reflected in the Law on the National Health Insurance Fund. That is why I think it is a better option to first examine the Law of State Social Security, the update of the budget I mean, and then consider the update of the budget for the National Health Insurance Fund. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Lyubomir Karimanski's proposal for a first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the NHIF Budget Act and the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the DVO to exchange their seats in the Programme, i.e. the NHIF to become point three and the State Social Security Point Two. Vote 226 MPs: 166 against 13, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karadaye, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u6	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to return the topic to Mrs. Atanasova's proposal for inclusion as a item on the agenda to consider the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where the elections are knocking on the door. From this point of view, instead of rushing, as usual happens, the Election Code, although in the Legal Committee they have found no time to put on the agenda and to examine at first reading the submitted Election Code by BSP colleagues, I suggest that you put Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to the vote, because there will be elections anyway. It is quite normal, ladies and gentlemen, that in this political situation two important topics should be addressed. One important topic is the... what can be done for people and business, and the other topic is to look at the rules with which we will go to elections. In this political situation, these are the most important topics, so by including this item on the agenda, perhaps if it is adopted by the House, we will probably also make a proposal to include this point immediately after the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I'm staying on my previous position. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I cannot understand why colleagues from GERB and DPS think that BSP has forgotten what proposal it has made that BSP does not monitor when the deadlines expire and that we are waiting for GERB to think yesterday at five and forty to submit our proposal. Mrs. Atanasova, stop plotting in the Coalition. [[(Laughter from GERB-SDS, applause from]] , you have enough opportunity today, tomorrow, next week. Let's do the job they sent us for. The electoral code will enter the plenary and I really hope that we will receive support and not just want it to be on the agenda. And more importantly, what we have to look at today, and most importantly, and I suggest that we do not leave this House... not one Member of the National Assembly until we look at the three budgets. [[(Laughter at GERB-SDS and shouts:]] The state social security, the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Budget Act, because this is what Bulgarian citizens are waiting for. The next thing we need to look at, after skipping the budget, is the update of the Council of Ministers, to look at what you have tabled, to reject the vote of no confidence you have tabled and only then to deal with the Election Code, which, I assure you, is the moment when the Rules allow, I will first stand on this stand and ask it to be included on the agenda. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov: "Why don't you jump now? "]] Because now there's a ten-day vacation that cancels the deadline, Mr. Nenkov, and that's the reason. I want the laws introduced by the BSP to be respected by the regulations and the Constitution of the State. So, Mr. President, I am making a reverse motion not to put it to the vote and to proceed with the Programme that we voted on. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Yordan Tsonev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure is in the way it leads to you. This procedure was unnecessary. You shouldn't have given it up because you said you were sticking to your decision that you wouldn't put it to the vote because it was unacceptable and that explanation was unnecessary. What's more, it's very easy to disprove. Two months you don't get considered by the Election Code in the Commission, you're part of the ruling coalition, and now you're going out and you're saying you're following deadlines. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] What deadlines are you on? You're following a two-month period that goes by without the Commission looking at it. So that you can get him into the Chamber without being watched by the Commission, which is chaired by a man of the so-called coalition, because here, Mr. Svilensky, you are talking about a coalition. [[(Replication by National Representative Mustafa Karadaiy:]] I don't know what coalition you're talking about, we'll find out very soon what coalition you're talking about. We're not going to get ahead of things with the coalition, but it was unacceptable for you to give this procedure. I believe that the Election Code is important and there are many cases in which this deadline is not relevant to remind only you, Mr President. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] Including you, let's not go back, let's not look for trouble now. The excuse is, like, a little bit frivolous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Another procedure on the subject? Will there be another procedure? No. Before we move on to the agenda, I'll read you a few messages. Applications have been made by five MPs: Nikolai Radulov, Deyan Petkov, Ivo Atanasov, Svetlin Stoyanov and Georgi Georgiev, which informs that they are leaving the parliamentary group. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "DPS" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]] In relation to the leaving of the parliamentary group of MPs, I inform you that according to art. 19th para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Presidents, Vice-Presidents and the members of the Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the Parliamentary Group from whose quota they have been elected. On that basis, the following shall be released: - People's representative Nikolay Radulov as a member and vice-president of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee and as a member of the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act; - People's Representative Georgi Georgiev as a member and Vice-President of the Committee on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and as a member and Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; - People's representative Ivo Atanasov as a member and Vice-President of the Committee on Environment and Water and as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation; - People's representative Svetlin Stoyanov as a member of the Defence Committee and as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications; - National Representative Deyan Petkov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and as a member of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. In accordance with art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be announced without discussing and voting. On 10 June 2022, an updated Programme for the Audit Activity of the Court of Auditors for 2022 was received by the National Assembly. The material is made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the Members of the National Assembly Library. The National Statistical Institute received information about: Gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2022. supplied data; Labour productivity for employed persons and time spent in the first quarter of 2022; R & D indexes in the section of the R & D &amp; D trading in April 2022; Industrial Production Indexes in April 2022; Construction Production Indexes in April 2022. Moving on to the first point of the program: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE OUTSIDE WORKS TEODORA GENECHICAL OF BENEFICIARY TEL. 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION WITH REGARD TO THE RESTRUCTURING PROCEDURE OF THE REPUBLIC OF Northern Macedonia TO THE EUROPEAN UNION A request has been made by importers to be held in a closed session. On the basis of art. 44, para. 3, before I give the floor to the importers for the motivation of the request for the hearing to be held in closed doors, I order all outsiders to leave the hall and balconies, to suspend the direct transmission to the media and to broadcast on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, as well as in the official profiles of the National Assembly on social networks. I'm taking five minutes off so we can leave our phones outside the gym. The procedure of motivation itself is carried out in practice behind closed doors and, according to the vote, the sitting continues in the same way or already as open. [[Next closed session.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u12	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I shall resume the meeting and give the floor to one of the importers to make a statement on the questions. Mr. Cholakov is for procedure, first. We're listening, Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the importance of the meeting, I propose that it be broadcast on BNT 1, I propose this time on Channel 1 and on the Bulgarian National Radio Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u14	Okay. Just to clarify that the Rules of Procedure hearing is broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR, and you suggest we move to BNT 1. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of Radomir Cholakov the hearing to be broadcast directly on BNT 1. It is broadcast by BNT 2 under the Rules of Procedure and by BNR is also by the Rules of Procedure. Voting mode. Vote 222 MPs: for 194, against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Please proceed to direct transmission on BNT 1. Will there be a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way you're led. I have stated this procedure before the announced break so that we can pay attention to art. 44, para. 4 where it is said that the President of the National Assembly shall be acquainted with the documents which have been submitted and shall communicate them to the Chamber, and when it comes to discussing documents with classified information, the closed session shall not be put to the vote. I don't know if you made such a message that you checked and that there are no such documents or any such documents. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that in this situation of multiple crises, to which you have added the political crises, we already have a political crisis. With petty tricks, we won't be able to overcome any serious theme here in this room. I appeal to you with a huge request that we do not go by the order of things, because in the public domain and also in our contacts with our international partners, there are some allegations that we ourselves would like to hear about whether there is anything that can prove them or disprove them. That is what this was about, and I have not spoken with my fellow Members, but most likely there is something in mind when it is said to close the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u16	Yes, thank you, Mr. Karadaye, but I think I've made that clear. Okay, one more procedure and then Mr. Yordanov for the presentation of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u17	Just give me one second, Mr. Chairman, I want to open the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u18	I'm giving you Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u19	Just to open the Penal Code, colleagues, to read you something, because not everyone is a lawyer in the Chamber. 103 who knows it, remember it. I'll read it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u20	I don't know it by heart, but this is Chapter One of the special part, but I can't remember...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u21	And you're not a penalist, and I'm not, and that's why I want to quote it exactly. Dear Mr. President, I read: The person who, by performing a public service or an order before a foreign government or international organisation, intentionally brings them to the harm of the Republic, is punished by imprisonment from 10 to 15 years, as well as by deprivation of rights. Colleagues, Mr. Chairman, today's hearing of the Foreign Minister Mrs. Genchovska, had as an object to determine whether there was a crime committed under art. 103 of civil servants who, having authority over a foreign government, have led them to the detriment of the Republic. You have forbidden the meeting to be closed, by which you deliberately restricted the rights of the foreign minister to inform the people's representation of facts that could prove that this is a crime under art. 103, which, Mr. Chairman, you become a helper what's-his-name for concealing a crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u22	There are different forms, there may be an accessory, there may be help.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u23	Okay. Colleagues, Mr. Chairman, there's nothing secret that can't be seen. [[(Reply from?) We continue the Change?:? Take his word.?)]] What Mrs. Genchovska has to say will be said in short form, but we will learn it in its full form. It didn't make any sense to do this circus and try to hide the majority of facts that society would teach them anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u24	[[Keeping Changing From Place]] : What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u25	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u26	The procedure is that I warn Mr. Chairman that he may be involved in concealing crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u27	[[Keeping Changing From Place]] Are you some kind of cop?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, for an exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for broadcasting on BNT. Colleagues, thank you for what you've done, because this is even better. It's just even better! [[(Noise and lines:]] I said that I thank the President for giving me the floor and thanking our former partners from PP, DB and BSP for doing what they did to broadcast on BNT in the way it is broadcast, on the subject we are talking about. And the topic is that in the process of negotiations on the accession of Northern Macedonia, pressure was put on the Bulgarian government and the prime minister allowed himself to make commitments or to speak, making commitments. I'm talking about the Prime Minister, not his foreign councilwoman, Vesela Cherneva. You know, I suppose you know that the whole push you're making, you know, you've been given this memorable note, which is ranked as an official document and has a griff. But as the Members from the other part of the Chamber said, each member of parliament will see it, and this meeting will be closed or openly, but the content will come out anyway. What's more fun is that because of what you don't want this meeting to be closed for, there's something that's open. After this meeting and you will even now find out what is inside this note, which you do not want to know, simply because I will read something that is discovered. For my great pleasure, it was written by Lena Borislavova, who is an associate of the Prime Minister. [[Laughs, laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u30	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u31	Chief of Staff, I apologize. I say it was written by Lena Borislavova, who is the head of the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u32	Don't mistake her twice!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u33	What do you want? I said he's the chief of staff? At least it was the last time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u34	It's a fact, it's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u35	Before that, it was the B.B.I., now he's chief of staff, and tomorrow could be something else, I don't know. He's the chief of staff for the time being. So, Mrs.. still in question, she sent a copy to Mrs. Elena Kireva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and to the Deputy Minister of Interior Vasil Georgiev, as well as to Mr. Dimitar Stoyanov, Secretary General of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, in which she said the following: In connection with the information received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (memorative note) of 1 April 2022 from the meeting of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Vasil Georgiev and.......................................................................... and.......................................................................................................................... I would like to make the following details: I am also making specifics now about the contents of the note:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u36	Mrs. Borislavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u37	Yes, Mrs. Borislavova, I'm sorry, I'll learn not to make a mistake. So, in relation to the above, Mrs. Borislavova says: "I would like to express a deep amazement from those contained in the memorable note concerning the meeting of Commissioner Varhei concerning the existence of an agreement which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been informed about. After this meeting took place, we were on our honeymoon with the PPs and I was at the Council of Ministers at some meeting. I'm telling you something here that isn't classified information because it happened to me. The Prime Minister was furious because the note was sent to the President and to 10 ambassadors, perhaps I forgot that the Minister would tell how many ambassadors. He read it to me out loud for the Varhei meeting. There are eight things in there that Varhei said that the Prime Minister said. That is, Varhei says: the Prime Minister said this, this, this and this. What did he say? [[Heckling]] Yeah, I'm sure, because he read it to me. I saw it, he pulled the note. [[Heckling]] Yes, you'll go look at it in the indoors, you know where it is, and you'll see that it is, for arrangements between the Prime Minister and Varhei.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u38	Mr. Yordanov, you still have 15 seconds to make the show.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u39	Okay. The Foreign Minister objected that this was not agreed and the Prime Minister said: "This makes it clear that I am a national traitor and I want the resignation of the one who wrote the note also to the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u40	Is this the exhibition? [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u41	Exhibition is, yeah. [[Noise and lines.]] The exhibition, my colleague, is that in the documents... [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u42	Mr. Yordanov, I mean, the exhibition should be about the accession process.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u43	It is clear from the documents that the Prime Minister has allowed himself to make arrangements and to make commitments to the Prime Minister and not his proxy Vesela Cherneva! So, colleagues, when we get to the closed area, because there's classified information, then the person who's still behind me has to close the meeting, or else he'll break the law. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Madam Minister, come in, you have ten minutes to show off.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a clear difference between strategic and political problems. What is important right now is how to maintain the broad national consensus on Bulgaria's position in relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. On January 10th, in its Report at the meeting of the KNS, this report is held by all parliamentary parties represented, the Foreign Ministry alarmed that within the process the Republic of Northern Macedonia will continue to follow several main lines of conduct: it will continue to rely mainly on external pressure; it will demonstrate constructiveness and will make numerous promises; it will seek informal concessions and setting precedents; it will seek to divide the Bulgarian institutions on the subject of Northern Macedonia by seeking to engage only with individual Bulgarian representatives in order to isolate the process the Bulgarian institutions with expertise on the subject and thus weaken the Bulgarian position, and if possible to achieve some breakthrough in it; it will try to manage the process by using the time frame, namely speeding up the intensity of the dialogue or its artificial delay, with the aim to manage the time for making a decision both its own and those in Bulgaria. This is exactly the kind of behavior we've been observing for the past five months, unfortunately. We have warned all members of the KNS about what will happen and this will happen. When I took over the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs, during my first meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, my first sentence was to him: The representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia continued to contact us outside the Foreign Ministry in order to achieve a breakthrough mainly in order to remove the key Bulgarian request for a follow-up mechanism for the implementation of the 2017 Treaty in the EU negotiating framework with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as well as with regard to the reference to the so-called Macedonian language. Here I should have had a reference and a text to a document with a graffiti and which was deposited yesterday, I think at 4:08 p.m., at the National Assembly's Office, but I continue with my report. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u46	You can meet at the Secret Office with everything that's been deposited. Mrs. Genchovska, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] That wasn't in motivation for a closed session. Madam Secretary, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u47	Rules. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u48	No rules, no Constitution, no laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u49	Wait a minute! There's a minister's exhibit going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u50	I'm skipping this part...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u51	We can't continue because we have to close the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u52	Colleagues, where a request for a closed session is motivated, must be explained why it should be closed. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Silence! Did you hear in motivation somewhere that documents with classified information will be discussed? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Not just yet, but in motivation? You didn't hear! That's why he was put to the vote because he wasn't on it. 2, a times c. 1 and the hall rejects under point 1. 1. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u53	Alinea 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u54	Here you are, Madam Secretary. We're listening to you at the fair. [[Heckling]] Then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Petrov, for procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] If there's a document in Secret Office, you can read it. [[Loud noise and shouts: "Eee!"]] That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u55	You can't tell us when to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u56	We're listening, Madam Secretary. [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u57	Do I have time?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u58	It's okay. With time, it's the easiest. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u59	Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u60	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u61	Mrs. Genchovska's exhibition should be completed then too. We're listening, Mrs. Genchovska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u62	We're going to a further stage of the process. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u63	You'll meet him. [[Heckling]] It's okay. [[Heckling]] Which he is, but I don't know who he is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u64	You have to read the document. What are you doing right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u65	Mr. Yordanov! We're listening, Mrs. Genchovska. [[Loud noise and lines.]] If it doesn't make sense, don't ask questions after that within the hearing. Then submit another hearing, in which you are motivated by point. 2 and so on. [[Noise and lines.]] It is not motivated there that documents with classified information will be discussed. There's no such motivation. That's it. Madam Minister, you have the floor to proceed with your exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u66	It can't go on because it has to share classified information.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u67	Then, if you want, we can suspend this hearing and then, upon further request, you can now state reasons why it should be closed. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] Because documents with classified information will be discussed. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u68	All of Bulgaria is watching.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u69	Let him watch all of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u70	At one next stage of this process, which I skip for obvious reasons, the foreign policy adviser of the Prime Minister sent a draft update of the Framework Position on 5 April this year. However, its content rather implies a revision of the Bulgarian national position. [[Shouting from ISN: "Oooh! "]] In this new framework position the project does not include the Bulgarian position in the so-called Macedonian language. The requirement of European guarantees in respect of the implementation of the 2017 Treaty becomes untenable. In practice, this project combines partial ideas of the Foreign Ministry for the implementation of the bilateral treaty, but without a clear mechanism in the negotiating framework for the implementation of the Treaty. The foreign ministry felt that there could be no notes on a document that was initially and completely wrong and rejected it as an opportunity. In parallel, we reported higher international activity, of which we have already been informed by our contacts with external factors. This created huge difficulties to consolidate the Bulgarian strategy and tactics in the negotiation process, to find solutions that best advocate the national interest. The main problem of this unfavorable situation was that, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was trying to negotiate, there was another impression that Bulgaria could agree to less, that it was ready for concessions, that the Foreign Ministry was not important and there was no point in talking to it. [[Heckling]] You will agree that this is not possible to defend national positions. At the beginning of May, the Ministry began to hold talks without imposing restrictions and interference and substantial progress was made in extremely short time. I mean, less than a month. There are four topics on which progress needs to be taken into account in order to protect Bulgarian interests. These are: implementation of the 2017 Treaty; inclusion of Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia; preservation of the Bulgarian position on the issue of the language of the neighbouring country; and inclusion of guarantees on all these issues in the negotiating framework of the European Union with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I can actually inform you of the progress thanks to the efforts of the foreign ministry team in the last less than 30 days, if I may, because I think it is important, because this is indeed proof of the professionalism of Bulgarian diplomacy. It is not influenced by political parties, interests and so on, but only advocates national interest. If I may, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u71	You have time, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u72	I don't know what time I have.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u73	You do, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u74	On issues concerning the negotiation phase with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the European partners. In mid-May, Skopje's representatives made significant progress on a draft bilateral protocol from the forthcoming meeting of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission under art. 12 of the Treaty on Good Neighborhood 2017. The draft protocol shall take into account what has been carried out so far and political implementation objectives shall be set for a subsequent period. It is important to note that the content of the draft protocol as a whole reflects all the topics laid down in the Framework Position and the declaration of the National Assembly since 2019, but implies a different approach with regard to the time frame. Regarding the Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. In the months of April and May this year, thanks to the efforts and clear positions of the Foreign Ministry, Skopje's insisting that the inclusion of Bulgarians in the Constitution should take place only before the end of northern Macedonia's accession talks with the European Union. Several options are currently being discussed, with the most favourable for Bulgaria being automation, inclusion of Bulgarians in the Constitution as a condition before the entire negotiation process starts, and then start intergovernmental conferences. At this point, this issue requires an entirely political solution that goes beyond the Foreign Ministry. Maintaining the Bulgarian position on the language. It is key for Bulgaria to maintain its position that it does not accept and will not accept the explicit or implicit existence of the so-called Macedonian language in an ethnic and historical context. The conclusion that we can make after the discussions we have had with all the Member States of the European Union is that they are unable to commit to accept this position as theirs. At this stage, this is about a political decision that goes beyond the Foreign Ministry. Guarantees in the negotiating framework guarantee the implementation of the contract. As a result of the increased activity of the Foreign Ministry team at the end of May and the beginning of June, the Presidency proposed, on its own initiative, the following guarantees in the negotiating framework and committed itself to lobbying for the other Member States after their adoption to the Council, i.e. guaranteeing the implementation of the 2017 Treaty. What do they include? Introduction of a requirement for the European Commission to report to any regular intergovernmental conference of the European Union the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the implementation of a Treaty on Good Neighborhood and the bilateral protocol under art. 12, under the mechanisms of the European Union, Bulgaria will have a say in preparing the common position of the Council of the EU. Settlement of the issue of inclusion of Bulgarians in a constitution in respect of which, as I have already said, a political decision must be made outside the Foreign Ministry. Introduction of a requirement for the Republic of Northern Macedonia to present and the Council to approve an Action Plan and the rights of communities in its territory. This action plan will also follow cluster detection indicators, underlying principles. Without this cluster, no negotiating chapter can actually be opened. Its implementation will subsequently be embedded in an intermediate indicator within the cluster. For this reason in the draft bilateral protocol under art. 12 of the 2017 Treaty Bulgaria has proposed a package of measures specifically related to the rights of the Bulgarians, i.e. in the negotiating framework there will be a mechanism that guarantees the rights of the Bulgarians in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. As I have already said, the question of the reference to the so-called Macedonian language at this stage remains open. Quite briefly was the information related to what was achieved by the Foreign Ministry within less than a month. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u75	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Welcome to the procedure, Mr. Petrov, before we move on to the issues of the groups and the independent MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal, as it has already become clear, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs Genchovska has touched on documents that are with a griff "Secret" on which I assure you that we will have questions and that we will want to get clarification, and because, on the other hand, already in the open session, the Bulgarian public understands through the public media that there are clearly indications of dual policy, as a butcher of the Republic of Macedonia, the Bulgarian public has learned the important thing that interests her, which interests her. I now believe that it is time, Mr President, that we, the MPs, learn what is essential, which is why I ask that we put to the vote the continuation from now on of this meeting be closed, where we, the MPs, can ask specific questions about the documents that have affected the foreign minister. So I ask you to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u77	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Yavor Bozhankov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm already confused by the procedures. The Bulgarian citizens first wanted to see this debate on the media, to be opened, then joined GERB, DPS and part of "There is such a people" and want this debate to be hidden. For several hours now, the Bulgarian National Assembly has been discussing this debate about Macedonia to be open, or closed, how important it is, but that is not what pisses me off, I am really angry at this moment because this National Assembly decided... [[noise and cheering: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS]] [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u79	Colleagues, please order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u80	...and this was decided by the AGE with GERB, DPS and a part of the "There is such a people" decided to concern the Bulgarian state...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u81	Where's the procedure, Mr. Bojankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u82	...and this parliament not with the incomes of the Bulgarians, not with the budget, not with pensions, not with the removal of taxes, not with the resolution of the crisis, but with Macedonia. Some in this Chamber of Macedonia are more important than Bulgaria and this is indeed disgraceful. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u83	Mr. Bojankov, to me the procedure, please. Here you are, Mr. Balabanov, for procedure. Colleagues, this is a pointless waste of plenary time with all these procedures. Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way you're led. Do not allow this tribune to speak people who clearly do not read the Rules of this National Assembly and do not comply with the laws. Why would I say that? We've been fighting this battle all day to comply with the law. Minister Genchovska has input documents in the National Assembly's Office with a graffiti. These documents, if publicly read to everyone, Mrs. Genchovska will be investigated by all legal institutions. We don't mind reading it, but you'll break the law that way. The law is that when there are such things, they happen in a closed session, something that we adopted today in two votes. You tried with parliamentary rounds to do your best to delay these processes, to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u85	You've said it three times already. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u86	Colleagues. Finish it, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u87	I want silence in this room so I can speak... The national betrayal is already a fact in the public domain, we have to prove it with documents in closed session because, Mr. President, all these MPs are Bulgarian citizens, and the budget update will happen anyway. There will also be pensions, there will be social measures, but never in any way should history sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u88	That's right. [[Heckling]] Nastimir Ananiev, then Kostadin Kostadinov. [[Heckling]] Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, the procedure of both Mr. Petrov and Mr. Balabanov, who went on the rink, which Minister of IHN, Deputy Minister of IHN...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u90	To me, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u91	Yes, yes, to you! ...Deputy Minister of ITN to save the ITN, which is falling apart and which will not eventually enter the next parliament, are full of shit. [[Voices from IHN and Revival: "Woo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u92	Mr. Ananiev, wait! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u93	It's just... I can't figure out how it's allowed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u95	...to hear only the one-sided version of everyone. We want to ask the questions to make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens the exact chronology and what happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u96	We will!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u97	Because the facts say otherwise. They can be presented unilaterally by the Minister and, of course, by the ICN this is normal, they are trying to survive, but Bulgarian citizens need to hear the facts. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u98	Okay, thanks. To hear the questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u99	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u100	...and the answers accordingly, at some point we'll have to stop the procedures first. [[Heckling]] Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is for you. We just heard something from one of the MPs of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which is unacceptable to talk here. It was about Macedonia being no more important than Bulgaria. Mr. Chairman, in this case you should make a remark because Macedonia is Bulgaria, Miziya is Bulgaria, Thrace is Bulgaria, Dobrudja is Bulgaria and when we talk about Macedonia, we talk about millions of Bulgarians, we talk about the Bulgarian national interest and should not, and we should not be in a situation here, in which this National Assembly last fell in 1946, when Georgi Dimitrov from this tribune reads a declaration that recognizes the Macedonian language, admits a Macedonian nation and carries out one of the biggest major national betrayals. We just heard at Mrs. Genchovska's exhibition, which we will be asking in a moment regarding the Macedonian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u102	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u103	So make a remark in this case. We are the peak of the Bulgarian state here. We shouldn't hear such traitorous sentences. Macedonia is Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u104	Okay. Again, to get to the questions, first the procedures. Mr. Yordanov and Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u106	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u107	You're admitting weird conduct of this meeting. You left the political nomad Nastimir Ananiev, who is currently in your party... [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u108	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u109	As far as political nomad is concerned, it's not an insult. I didn't say anything offensive. So you let him talk about things that will happen in the future that have nothing to do with the meeting. So the conclusion is that if we assume that he's either inferno or he's in his right mind, we assume that he's...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u110	Mr. Yordanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u111	...with all his mind, he knows what's gonna happen...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u112	...watch out for the insults of the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u113	I just haven't said anything yet. Assuming that he knows what will happen in the future and you allow this to be held in this sitting, which has nothing to do with the content of the sitting, please allow him to say the lottery numbers. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS and ITN]] , whether it will rain, how much the external debt will come. It's just that the man knows the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u114	I asked him for the lottery numbers, but only for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u115	Allow this psychic to say other important things. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u116	For the reply, however, I am imposing a penalty for the punishment of Toshko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u117	Note?! Note?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u118	Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Without an unnecessary amount of emotion, I address you, Mr. Chairman! I understand the situation you're in. Yes, you are the President of the National Assembly, you are the first among equals, but you are still performing some political command, and it says to do everything possible to actually hide the truth to the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u120	Well, how, when the meeting's open?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u121	That's why, Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you! Not as to the President of the National Assembly, not as part of some political group, but as a true Bulgarian, to make sure that Mrs. Genchovska actually acquaints us with what she has come to do: do we actually have a national traitor or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u122	Mr. Nenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u123	Therefore, I address you as a Bulgarian, as a person I respect, and I believe that no matter how much time you stay in this Parliament, however much time you are in this position, you are somehow morally bound to do so, just for all the Bulgarians, and not for some political party. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. This open or closed meeting issue has been finally cleared. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS and ITN:]] End of story. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] In motivation, there was no such thing as looking at, discussing documents. [[Noise and lines.]] Look, if you want to hear something within the hearing, we're gonna have to move on to asking questions. Otherwise, there is simply no point in the hearing, and perhaps the entire hearing, if it goes entirely into procedures. I will, of course, give you the floor of procedure.. I have no reason not to, but I say again.... if we want to hear something, we must move on. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. It has been repeatedly noted by all those who challenged your opinion about whether the meeting should be opened or closed, whether information that is currently present in the Secret Office of the National Assembly and some of the Members of the National Assembly have already been introduced to it. But, Mr. Chairman, if one of the parliamentary groups, for example our parliamentary group, asks in its question a response from Minister Genchovska, who contains classified information, what will you do, Mr. Chairman? Are you going to close the meeting, or are we going to continue in an open session? Of course, this question is likely to be of increased difficulty for you. Therefore, from now on, I am telling you that when it comes to the order of our parliamentary group to ask a question, it will certainly be related to the information found in the Secret Office of the National Assembly. If you wish not to be in the uncomfortable situation again, not to know what procedure we are in, at a closed session, whether it is voted on, is it not, should the media be inside, should it be transmitted directly on television, I am once again addressing you and I am doing a new procedure to close the session right now because our questions are related to the information that is in the National Assembly's Office and you cannot forbid us to ask them. In this sense, I am making a procedural proposal before the questions of the parliamentary groups start again, once again, to put the sitting to the vote to a closed part. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, but we have already spoken on the question of whether it will be open or closed and from there on in the questions and answers of the Members of the National Assembly and the hearing person should take this into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u127	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u128	End of story. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Stanislav Balabanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u129	Mr. Chairman, you are very well aware right now that there is a law in this country, a law that we all have to abide by. Documents of secret content have been entered in the National Assembly. Minister Genchovska is here to read these documents in a closed part of the meeting. If he does it in front of the cameras, you're breaking that law. And you are the first among equals, but you are the President of this National Assembly. Are you prepared to bear all political and criminal responsibility if you allow this to be read in front of the cameras, because you will break the law, not Minister Genchovska?! Minister Genchovska is here to brief us on facts. And because, Mr. Chairman, if we put things on the scale, on one side are the facts, the truth, the Bulgarian history and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who wants to acquaint us all with the truth. We are Bulgarian citizens. You're Bulgarian. On the other hand, from the morning you and your parliamentary group are standing and doing everything possible to break all the laws in this country, only today not to introduce our colleagues to all Bulgarians in this Chamber, including journalists, with the truth as it is. Please keep the law! I call! Everyone's watching here right now, and the press. Do you think such actions will not cost you your position as President of this Parliament?! Break the law, please! We want to protect you so you don't make a fool of yourself. Close this part of the meeting, Minister Gencovska to introduce us to the truth as it is and to uphold the law, so that we can all be sure of what practically we all know is happening in the last three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. You, if you think the release of the post is particularly disturbing... [[The National Representative Alexander Ivanov wants the floor.]] Honest Mitev was before you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. It became clear that Mrs. Genchevska has nothing secret to tell us and this is an attempt to just throw dust into people's eyes. And please, Mr. Chairman, I would like to read you one word: parlama means meaningless actions that hide something else. Do not turn the Bulgarian Parliament into a parlama of lies! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Alexander Ivanov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, we've been arguing all morning. The first part of the vote, the inclusion in the Programme of this point has been closed. You gave a five-minute break, the MPs came out, the media went out, the cameras were closed. Then, in the closed part of the sitting, Mr. Chairman, you admitted a vote that turned and became an open session. However, Mr President, you, by giving this opportunity, will read the Rules of Procedure what it says. I hope we don't break it a second time in today, which means you don't break it. ..................................................................... The meetings of the National Assembly shall be closed when. 2 documents classified under the Classified Information Protection Act shall be discussed. And in para. 4 says: "The events of the e.g. 1 and 2 sittings are closed without discussing and voting. Apparently, it came from the Foreign Minister's exhibit that there's a secret part. I'm worried that you want to hide some truth from the MPs. You have just addressed the MPs and said: you will take into account what questions to ask. This is unacceptable, Mr President, from your place to say these words! The MP has the right to ask any questions, especially when this concerns the Bulgarian national interest. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, do not get yourself into a situation where you are forcing MPs to break the law. There are classified documents, there are graffiti that must be exported, documents from the Foreign Minister, which are with a griff..Secretly, colleagues. Let's move on to a closed part of the meeting so we can get to know what policy is being led by our government.................................................................................... We hear a signal from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the Prime Minister and his political cabinet are pursuing one policy in relation to Northern Macedonia and another, which has a mandate of a decision of the National Assembly by the Foreign Ministry. Let's close the session and move on. After that, everyone can now bear their own responsibility when they are aware of all the facts and circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For procedure Kostadin Angelov, Georgi Svilenski and Andrey Gurov. Mr. Svilensky, do you want to go before Professor Angelov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a procedure as I see that the will of the National Assembly to accept and examine budgets is clearly not at the necessary level. And because this meeting is transmitted directly on Channel 1 and on BNT 2, I propose a procedure for extending the working time until the three budgets are adopted today to see the Bulgarian citizens eventually who want to work in this House in the interests of their interests or wants to do procedures in the manner of conduct until 2:00, and then leave. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] My procedure is an extension of working hours until the three budgets are adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Georgi Svilenski's proposal is today's meeting to continue until the conclusion of item 4 including the Programme. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Firstly, I think that you should put to the vote in the order of all procedures. Mr. Petrov was the first, please keep order, not Mr. Svilensky's, just because he's from the Coalition, to give him first order. That's a remark to you. The second thing, I propose at today's meeting, to be constructive, to hear all the arguments, as there are plenty of arguments also under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Social Security, and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the National Health Insurance Fund, I mean, only these two budgets to be today, and tomorrow to be the state budget for our time. [[Voices by "We continue the Change": "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u138	It's a separate offer, okay. Any other procedural proposal regarding an extension of the meeting? I won't. [[(Replyings between the National Assembly and the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria.) National Representative Petar Petrov wants the floor.)]] ) Is he on the program, Mr. Petrov? I first put to the vote Georgi Svilenski's procedural proposal. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and ITN.]] Wait a minute, guys. What's that? Wait! Georgi Svilenski's proposal is wider than Lubomir Karimanski's. [[Noise and lines.]] No, we're not putting them through the next one. On the matter of the closed session, we have already spoken. It's over. That's it! [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Claps by.. We continue Change............................................... Announcement and banging on the banks by "GERB-SDS": "Omission!"]] Look, just a second... Thank you, thank you. Let's just pass the votes and then. Thank you, I've just had an eye on whether 80 people are calling for an resignation to submit the request. Please deposit it! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u139	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u140	Wait a minute. What's it for? Then we'll do it then. We are voting for Georgi Svilenski's proposal to extend the meeting until the end of item four.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u141	You can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u142	Why can't we?! [[Noise and lines.]] To hear from Mrs. Atanasova, it must be relatively quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u143	Give me the word! Are you gonna hear it from a place like this?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u144	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u145	Mr. Chairman, if you need a break, someone else will lead. But you are now admitting another rude violation of our regulations. Please open the Rules of Procedure and read the order in which the procedural proposals received are voted. Mr. Karimanski's far-reaching proposal to vote only on the two points of the NHIF Budget Act, and the State Social Security Act... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u146	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u147	...this, Mr. Chairman, you must put it to the vote. If it does not bring together the necessary majority, propose Mr. Georgi Svilenski's proposal. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u148	Wait, guys, quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u149	Indeed, Mr. Chairman, you have shown clear disrespect for the rules, for the procedures, for parliamentaryism, for the law. Not only have you been doing this for the last few months... [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u150	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u151	...but today you've gone too far. Mr President, please think again, and just as you had to apologize to the Chamber last week, because you have declared your wrong decision in connection with the vote to be an issue, you will have to do so today. I hope it is not the last thing that will happen to you from the post of President of the National Assembly. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u152	We are voting on Georgi Svilenski's proposal. They voted 229 MPs: 111, against 89, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u153	REPLICA: Revoting! Re-vote please, Mr. Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u154	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u155	And you often take such a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u156	As you know, the three budgets are linked. If we do not accept all three budgets, there are no Bulgarian citizens... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u157	Colleagues, quiet please! Colleagues, hold on...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u158	...to get their pensions. Please, let me finish my sentence. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So I would like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to put the results of the vote on the dashboard so that the cameras can show the result of the vote and show this line to our former coalition partners who voted against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Angov. We have a re-vote, anyway. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Karimansky. [[Noise and lines.]] Why? It's okay, now that you're re-voting. There's a re-vote. Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u160	Yeah, yeah, it'll be reworded. Let's reschedule, calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u161	I'm calm!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, apparently there are MPs who have a very short memory. A short memory from February until now. [[The National Representative Nikolay Angov is leaving the hall.]] The gentleman is trying to get out, but he better hear me if he wants to. February, we only voted on budgets on different days... we voted on the budget for NHIF and on the budget for DEO on one day, and the state budget voted on another day. So was the budget update last year. Don't let me remind you of that thing. You obviously want to overwhelm the three budgets, but I am a responsible person and I am voting for the budgets to be divided. The NHIF budget, the update and the budget of the DVO to be on one day and the state budget on another day. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u163	Thank you. We're overreacting. They voted 232 MPs: 112, against 95, abstention 25. The proposal is also not accepted in re-voting. We move on to the procedural proposal of Lyubomir Karimanski, which is today's meeting to be extended until the end of the item. 3 on the agenda This means the hearing, the budget of state social security and the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. This is Lyubomir Karimansky's proposal. They voted 232 MPs: 205, against 6, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Today's session will continue until the end of the item. 3 of the program. Let's get back to the hearing. A question from the parliamentary group of "We are continuing the Change." There are no other proposals for a vote. Here you go, Mr... I apologize, yes, Professor Angelov asked for a procedure a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, it has become clear to all of you that you are trying with procedural grasps to silence a national betrayal. I personally wanted to find out from this tribune what are these eight points which the Prime Minister or his representative has promised as commitments of the Bulgarian state to the EU Enlargement Commissioner and to find out in these eight points whether national betrayal has been committed or not. It is clear to us that this is a fact and the national betrayal was committed by the Bulgarian Prime Minister. But from this tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u165	To me now, Professor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u166	...a colleague of mine from "We are continuing the Change" said that to him the Prime Minister was just Kiro. I'm telling you, he's gonna leave like a pop crusader. He'll leave like King Krustö...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u167	Professor!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u168	....from the Prime Minister's seat in the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u169	What kind of bullshit is this now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u170	And, Mr. Chairman, there was a procedural proposal to close this session so that when we asked Mrs. Genchovska's questions, what did it say? 4 out of the eight points, what Prime Minister Petkov said, she came out here and read it, not you trying to hide your party leader's national betrayal. Until today, Mr. Chairman, I personally respected you. From this day forward, you do not have the authority of the President of the National Assembly and I think you should leave this post. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u171	Thank you, Professor. You told me that last week, so I'll be waiting for you next week, unless, of course, you voted my resignation by then. Here you are, Mr. Gurov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is for you to interrupt such outpourings here and return the debate to where it belongs, namely on the agenda. And what happened today, everyone saw it, and it's a cheap show. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] This is a scenario that some people in the Chamber are used to doing and this is offensive to the Bulgarian people. We saw what this show was all about. People, if they want to watch, can pay 78 cents to keep looking at it. [[(Applause and cheering]] We are currently on BNT 1 and we are losing the agenda of the Bulgarian Parliament, we are wasting the time of Bulgarian citizens and we are violating the program of BNT. Why? To look at cheap scenarios and scenes, which obviously have no role whatsoever but to divert the agenda of society from what concerns Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian business, namely the adoption of state budgets. And this was seen by all the actions here in the Chamber. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Therefore, I ask that we return to the hearing where we have decided to open this up so that all Bulgarian citizens can see that there is nothing hidden, there is no covert and stop making insinuations about what negotiations have been conducted to hear the facts of all the actions of the Prime Minister and press conferences about what is happening, what is the procedure from now on and how far we have come in the negotiation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u173	What press conferences?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u174	What press conferences?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u175	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Yordanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u176	Mr. Chairman, please listen to what your partner Gurov tells you when talking about things that have nothing to do with what we have gathered here, what he has done. Seventy-eight pennies TV! Mr. Gurov, it's about the stupidity you said! [[Applause by National Representative Tosko Yordanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u177	Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. We have just heard from Mr. Gyurov, apparently you, subject to this thesis, that the reasonable, conscientious, the smart, the beautiful, the honorable are those who are allowed to violate the Constitution, to violate the laws of the country, to violate the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to ask you to stop breaking the rules. Otherwise, the question that you have asked is whether there are 80 people who want your resignation, I am making a procedural proposal, you can check it in the room with a roll call from all MPs and you will get the answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u179	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The answer to this question can be received in the National Assembly's case-law. Mrs. Korcheva for a question to Minister Gencovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Gencovska! Mrs. Genchovska, from what you've put out, I find it very unpleasant that there is an attempt to phantom and intrigue on the back of the foreign policy process. I find that ugly and unacceptable, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u181	That's for the clarification maybe?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u182	From our work with you as Minister of Foreign Affairs we have always been under the impression that you and the institution you run are an integral and absolutely key part of Bulgaria's foreign policy with regard to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. For this short period, since you are a minister, a lot of work has been done by you and your office, Mrs. Genchovska. You and your team were an important part of the delegations, the main coordination of the Bulgarian case work with the Republic of Northern Macedonia going through you. Commissioner Varhei has visited you several times, and as far as you have told us within the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mrs Genchovska, your work with him has been productive and based on expertise. From the data you have recently presented to me, it has only been reaffirmed that you and your team are an integral part of the communication process and work on the foreign policy topic we are talking about, and that the Prime Minister has relied on you and your support and expertise, which is normal. Madam Minister, I do not know which grammes he has written to you, but you know how many times Mr. Petkov expressed the position of Bulgaria and confirmed that it is unchanged and we defend the contract formed by the framework position of 2017. Mrs. Genchovska, my question to you is: are there any specific solutions that came out of the so-called documents that you quoted earlier or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Korcheva, you may not have listened carefully to my presentation, because at first, I said that there is a clear difference between strategic and political issues. My exhibition was based entirely on what the Foreign Ministry has ended or is not allowed to end in the last six months. I can't tell you what decisions are made based on grams, we're not talking about grammar, we're talking about memorable notes, because the memory note itself has a griff, so if you want me to tell you, there has to be a closed session so I can quote the memory note. [[Noise and lines.]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u185	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u186	I introduced you to the trial... Mr. Gurov said he had an interest in me introducing him to the trial. I have already introduced you to what the Foreign Ministry has done, after a month ago it was left really only... only, as it is appropriate, at expert level to have talks with the team of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as well as with our partners from the European Union. I introduced you to what was done in the short time since it was clearly stated by the Prime Minister that he relied on the Foreign Office, that was a month ago, a month ago at last the Foreign Ministry was allowed to do its job... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u187	Colleagues, quiet from place, not like this!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u188	Mrs. Korcheva's question concerns a document with a griff. I cannot answer this question because we are not talking about a solution there, we are talking about discussions that have been made. So if you want to hear them, we have to close the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u189	Okay, thanks. There are no lines. No. There's no lines or backs in the hearing. A question from GERB-SDS Mrs. Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u190	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! You at the Advisory Council, I remember shortly after the Advisory Council, at a hearing here in this Chamber, I asked and warned the Prime Minister not to enter the game, so to speak, of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and not to allow separation and keeping any other than that achieved so far, hoping for a national agreement, because it was visible to me and not for who knows how many major foreign policy specialists that this hinders Bulgaria, hinders the negotiations and prevents Bulgaria from achieving what it could have achieved so far if it had not been for this dual policy. I understand that there is no way you can answer what is proposed by Oliver Varhei's Prime Minister, which differs. But less than two hours ago, the Prime Minister, before a meeting of the Council of Ministers, says that a decision will be included on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, and I quote: Any proposal other than the framework position of the Republic of Bulgaria, to be sent immediately to the Foreign Affairs Commission, note no, to the National Assembly, but to the Foreign Affairs Committee in the National Assembly, by the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria. So my question is: what are these deviations from the framework position, has the foreign decision been prepared at all, does it know about this decision by the Council of Ministers, and for what purpose do you think this decision of the Council of Ministers is being made? It seems to me that it is an attempt to bypass the Foreign Ministry again, in violation of the Order of the Council of Ministers No 85.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Zaharieva, I'm not familiar with the RMS project because of the fact that I was called to a hearing. I have no information on this project being sent to the Foreign Ministry for prior coordination. I'm not familiar with the very text of the document. You are absolutely right that the positions that Bulgaria must present within the European Union, except for the UCCCC, pass through the Council on European Affairs, for which, in fact, at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, which I am not present at, the Deputy Minister is present, we have presented a framework position for the forthcoming meeting, as required by the law and as agreed by all other ministries. I do not know how this procedure will go through the Committee on Foreign Policy and so on and what it is intended to do. I have already tried to introduce you in addition to what the Foreign Office has achieved in working meetings with the French Presidency to a stage to which the powers of the Foreign Ministry really allow. That is why I have highlighted several topics that come out of the powers and already there is a procedure, you know, a report is being submitted if there is a need to change the framework position, a change of the declaration of the National Assembly. The procedure I think is clear to all of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u193	I want to show it to Mrs. Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u194	Okay, here you go, show it to Mrs. Genchovska. Thank you, Madam Secretary. [[The National Representative Ekaterina Zaharieva shows on the phone and specifies with Minister Teodora Gencovska.]] Okay, well, maybe later in the attitude, you can give an opinion. Then when the relationship turns, I mean. From the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our question is related precisely to the subject of the hearing, and I will ask you to answer me eventually, if there are papers with a griff, to answer us with a yes or no, and if there are public documents, to present them to us. My question is is is there any evidence whether the allegations in the public domain that we have been reading and listening to them recently, and sometimes by our partners, that the Prime Minister has made a commitment other than the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and the opinion of the Advisory Council for National Security on this topic? And eventually, the opposite is evidence that categorically disproves these claims that exist in the public domain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Here you are, Mrs. Genchevska, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadayi, in order to comply with the Classified Information Act, I will try to rephrase without violating the Law, a sequence of actions, and subsequently I will give you an answer to the specific questions you have asked. On 24 May, the Prime Minister's foreign policy adviser proposed a text, all emails are in the Foreign Ministry, which envisions the rights of the Bulgarians, their inclusion in the Constitution and the implementation of the 2017 Treaty, to be removed from the negotiating framework and to be included in non-binding statements of the French Presidency only statements, and of the President of the European Union, who are unclear on how they replace the European Commission, a commitment to monitor the situation, I quote, of the Bulgarian minority.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u198	What? What's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u199	It's in an e-mail from a foreign policy advisor. Now I refer to a secret document without saying it. On 31 March, during a meeting with the Enlargement Commissioner, this position was presented by him as already agreed at the initiative of the Bulgarian country. This was naturally reflected in a classified memorable note from the meeting, which is in the Ministry of the National Assembly. There are also memorable notes that were discovered and which had expired in the public domain before, from my meeting with the Enlargement Commissioner. The memorable note is in me. I can provide it to you if it is of interest. What I would like to say to you is that, since my entry into this position, thanks to the Foreign Ministry's team, it is only and solely a stand-up of the national position under the framework position, according to the National Assembly Declaration and the opinions and proposals of the Advisory Council for National Security on 10 January. There is no way out of this framework because the colleagues of the Foreign Ministry are all professionals and there is no way to break the procedure. That is why I told you that in my presentation I presented the negotiations with colleagues from the French Presidency who are really proposing for the short period, again I say, less than a month, things that go beyond the powers of the Foreign Ministry. There is a procedure when it is necessary to change the framework position, what should be done. This is what I can tell you about your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u200	Thank you, Madam Secretary. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria "Kristian Vigenin." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is good that we have gone further in the discussion, because in my opinion, the situation we are experiencing with regard to the problems in relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia is what we needed today. I believe that, with the beginning of this meeting and the discussion that we have had so far, we have greatly deteriorated our attitude as a parliament and, of course, our foreign policy position as a government. But anyway, things are what they are. We will try from now on to do the maximum, including to give some clarity to the Bulgarian citizens who tracked BNT 1 and BNR everything that has happened so far, however, to have a little more clarity what lies ahead from now on and what are the next steps, although you yourself, Mrs. Genchovska, are already resigning. I don't know if there's a no-confidence vote on the government yet, but whatever it is, the foreign policy calendar isn't waiting for our domestic political dramas and bickering. So my question is, Mrs. Genchovska, what are the next steps, as far as next week we need to have very clear positions. I understand that a position has been submitted to the Council of Ministers, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is proposing. Can you tell us what the main elements are in it, it's not classified? And I would only say that I am making a suggestion to you that these memorable notes, so that they are not used as some kind of attempt here to suggest things that do not correspond to the truth, to be declassified, which has sealed them, may be deciphered, to know all of them, not just us, the MPs, to interpret them, but all Bulgarian citizens to know what these memorable notes say. And in so far as there was a suggestion of the composition of a crime, if you believe there is one, have you informed the National Assembly that the Bulgarian Prime Minister is committing a crime against the Republic? If you don't think there's a crime, it makes some of the debate meaningless. If there is one, why didn't you inform the DANS and the D.A.? That's a rhetorical question. My question is, in essence, about the next steps, literally in the coming days? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you go, Mrs. Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vigenin, what you said there was a draft decision of the Council of Ministers to submit a report, I got another impression from what Mrs. Zaharieva actually said.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u204	You said you offered a position.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u205	No, we didn't offer a position. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u206	Colleagues, not from the spot. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u207	On your question, Mr Vigenin, what is to come about the procedure in the European Union, I suppose you mean, I have introduced you to what the Foreign Office has done with regard to the negotiation process and the proposals being made by the French Presidency. What is to come, given that a proposal has been tabled by the Council of Ministers, which requires the Committee on Foreign Policy to propose to the National Assembly, obviously we must follow this procedure. I suppose that the decision has passed today by the Council of Ministers and may the Foreign Policy Committee ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs how far the negotiation processes have reached, as a result of which the President of the Foreign Policy Committee will make a proposal, if he considers, for a possible change or upgrade of the framework position. We're following the logic of today's events, aren't we?! As far as the European Union is concerned, I think there is a meeting of the Permanent Representatives Committee today, where the issue of European integration is likely to be raised, of enlargement, which concerns not only the Republic of Northern Macedonia, but also Albania. We expect to see what the results are, what the French Presidency will propose as a time schedule by the end of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u208	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Toshko Yordanov, on behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people." [[(Replies from]] Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u209	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I understand that you have punished me for telling Nastimir Ananiev, which is clearly offensive to you, so I will appeal to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u210	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u211	Because you're obviously an unknown philologist. Secondly, it became clear that the Prime Minister is trying to skip the Foreign Ministry and now with what he has released to the Council of Ministers for approval. And since it was also made public that he was proposing acceptance... [[a line from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev]] . Please shut up! He proposed lifting the veto without the Bulgarians being introduced into the Constitution of Macedonia and without guaranteeing all the rights of the Bulgarians there, on a parallel process, I want Mrs. Genchovska to introduce me to the content and to the words of Oliver Varhei, who said on 31 March this year at a meeting with Deputy Minister Vasil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u212	Thank you for the question, Mr. Yordanov. Here you go, Mrs. Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Yordanov, it is your question that I answer on a document with a griff. I repeat, I have no right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u214	The President must close the session. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u215	I'm not the author of the document to decipher the document. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u216	Colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u217	So I cannot answer your question, as I do not have the document, but in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Genchovska. So all MPs can get acquainted with the document. "Democratic Bulgaria" is okay for a question. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u219	Dear Prime Minister. [[Elevator bell dings]] I apologize, President of the National Assembly! Because I'm reading the text from the Constitution, yes, I'm confused. I'm glad I'm freshening up here otherwise a very unpleasant spirit. Madam Minister for Retire, unfortunately, what is happening at the moment has nothing to do with our policy regarding Macedonia and our relations with Macedonia. Which still feels important enough not to use it as a heavy object to throw it at a government that a part of the room wants to take down. This is their absolute right to the opposition within the democratic process. I just feel like some other means had to be used. But anyway, since this is the heavy object that is being used and pathetics are being spoken, by the way, members of the Penal Code are quoted. Mr. Cholakov, I am very uncomfortable at this time... we are not a court to seek and collect evidence, to pronounce sentences and to say who is in accessory mode and so on. And Mrs. Minister can't be a court of law, by the way. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u220	That was a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u221	Let's get back to the subject. There's a text in the Constitution. 105, para. 1: The Council of Ministers directs and implements the domestic and foreign policy of the country. And I wish, Madam Minister, that you could interpret to me how you interpreted this norm in your work. The Council of Ministers is headed by the Prime Minister, isn't it? You made a division between strategic and political issues at the beginning of your hearing, would you explain to us in all this insinuations and allegations that, by the way, differ because you said it was a matter of discussion, after which you hardly incriminated that someone had proposed some texts in advance, after which you quoted Commissioner Varhei's statement that he had some commitment or agreed something that could not be technically true because, in order to be agreed, it had to go through a certain institutional framework. In this sense, if Varhei believes that something is agreed, given that it is the subject of a decision of the National Assembly, why does this commit Bulgaria to Varhei's mistake? Either way, please explain to me: what is the Prime Minister's leadership of foreign policy? What are his rights in terms of discussing and conducting various consultations, forming political decisions throughout this process? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What are the Minister's rights? [[Reply.]] Give me a few seconds, excuse me. You said that your first line to the Foreign Minister of Northern Macedonia was: Talk only to me.! I mean, do you think that the Prime Minister of the Republic, whoever he is, has the right to discuss a subject as big and important as relations with Northern Macedonia, with Commissioner, with the President of the European Commission. Because both I and Mr. Yordanov were in a meeting with the President of the European Commission and this topic was discussed. I'd like to know if Mr. Yordanov and I are accomplices to a crime after we've discussed it. I want to ask you, how did you reconcile your actions with the Prime Minister, how did you reconcile them with the leader of the political formation that broadcasts you, because if we think there were two foreign policies, we need to find out whose second one is? [[(Voices by "Read more Change": ……]] It seems to me from the text of the Constitution that the Prime Minister still has a leading role to play. If it isn't the prime minister's lead role, whose lead is it? The Foreign Ministry is some kind of state in the country?! How do the two things work out? If a political leader from the ruling party, for example, was in Skopje...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u222	The weather, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u223	...and had conversations with political factors there, is that a crime? What member of the Penal Code is Mr. Cholakov doing this job? Can you explain to us how this relationship works? Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u224	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mrs. Genchovska.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u225	You are right, Mr. Ivanov, that the foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Council of Ministers because it has many dimensions. Whenever the Foreign Ministry, a foreign ministry team, including myself, have gone to talks with our colleagues from the Republic of Northern Macedonia, I have introduced a report with a proposal on the topics and positions that the Foreign Ministry will present at these workshops. So the Prime Minister is informed of any action by the Foreign Ministry. Of course, he has the right to meet and talk with the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, but my reply to the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia was not to communicate with me alone and not to communicate with the Prime Minister, it was with regard to entities that are members of the Prime Minister's team. The Foreign Ministry is responsible entirely for protecting national interests, and in relation to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, within the framework of documents that you all know very well. It never came out of these frames. As you may have seen and heard in my exhibition, I am not saying anywhere that the Prime Minister has made any decisions that are different from this. [[(Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.....................) Revelations: ……]] I didn't mention his name anywhere because the meeting was open. [[Noise, lines and applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u226	Kostadin Kostadinov for a question on behalf of the parliamentary group of a party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u227	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that during these six months, while you are in office, you have defended the Bulgarian national cause in an extremely persistent and consistent manner, something that I had the opportunity to personally assure myself at the beginning of this year, when it was the Advisory Council on National Security dedicated to Macedonia. Accordingly, I would like to say another thing. I am glad that, however, although it fails to become clear here, in this open session you said something at the very beginning of your report before us, which was said six months ago at the Advisory Council on National Security, namely about the way our Western neighbour sabotaged bilateral negotiations and tried to find intermediaries, trying to look for some internal lobby here in Bulgaria, trying to exert pressure on Bulgaria and so on, things that were very important to be heard publicly here. When you have been at all kinds of meetings at all levels with our partners from the European Union, you have consistently and consistently defended the national interest, including in many of your discussions with EU Enlargement Commissioner Oliver Varhei. I repeat Varhei, not Varhei, as was said earlier. I have a specific question for you and I want you to answer as simple as possible with yes or no, if possible, because there is no point in any more subterfuges. On February 17, this year, Oliver Varhei had a meeting with our Prime Minister. The meeting is large-scale, they have talked about a variety of issues, including on the topic of Macedonia. Then, at the end of the month, you had a second meeting with Varhei, apart from the first one, of course, to which you mentioned and actually repeated what you said to us and what at the very beginning of the year you repeated at the Advisory Council on National Security, namely the way the Macedonian side approached, justifying and arguing that the Bulgarian position is not in us, but in them, that with a similar type of behaviour, which leads to a retreat from positions that were once agreed, the Macedonian side risks not getting a raise of the veto, but rather working towards strengthening this veto. You have expressed your concerns that we will most likely not make progress within the French Presidency and will not have a breakthrough in the negotiation process. My question to you is this: has Varhei told you that at his conversation with Kiril Petkov on 17 February, Kiril Petkov made a commitment to him that he is ready to raise the veto by the end of the French Presidency, i.e. by the end of June this year? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u228	Thank you to Mr. Kostadinov. Here you are, Mrs. Genchevska, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u229	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kostadinov, the meeting to which you forwarded, my meeting with the Enlargement Commissioner was actually my first meeting with Commissioner Varhei. The meeting was attended by seven-eight members of the Foreign Ministry team and, as always, at all meetings, a memorable note from this meeting was drawn up. This memorable note has been found and confirms exactly what you have put in your question. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Genchovska. Are there any questions from the independent MPs? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, quiet in the hall! Question from? Continue Changing? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! We listen to different stories. The bad news is, Mrs. Gencovska, that you were used as foreign minister in all this political drama, but the bad news is that the Bulgarian foreign policy and diplomacy suffered with all the things that are spoken and which are not spoken in general. I listened with interest to your trial what happened on the negotiations with Northern Macedonia. I did not hear in it, for example, the part when Boyko Borisov took down the veto in Europe, you missed this part. I also didn't hear, I understood that the chairman of the parliamentary group was visiting Macedonia, was that some messenger of yours, because you're from the same party, and I didn't hear it in your process either, I mean, something was negotiated, which we don't know, is something that we don't know? I was interested to hear in the process, somehow it was quite selective in general. So I am interested as a person who just said that during the last month you are very diligent in the negotiations and everything that has happened, and in fact what was agreed in the last month by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, does the Bulgarian requests under the Framework Position satisfy, in fact, this month, in which it is done, whether the Framework Position is covered? Because when the adoption of Northern Macedonia as a whole would begin has never depended on deadlines. A lot of people say that by the end of June? No, it is important when the Bulgarian interest will be protected. If it is protected tomorrow, let the negotiations begin, the deadline is not important. But the question is, are you satisfied from the last month with what was done under the Framework Position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, I will start backwards from your question, which is essentially, and some comments on other complementary issues, if possible. What the Foreign Ministry team is working together with the team of the French Presidency, to a great extent covers the Framework Position and exceeds it because the Framework Position does not include the inclusion of Bulgarians in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. As I have already pointed out in my initial statement, this is a matter which requires a political solution in all likelihood from the National Assembly. I also raised the question of Bulgaria's position in the so-called Macedonian language, which also comes out of the Framework Position, again requires a new political solution. So you are right, yes, there should be no deadlines, but when there is a good proposal, I have therefore read what the Foreign Ministry has achieved at this stage, but I was surprised to find that there is a decision of the Council of Ministers which now refers to the Committee on Foreign Policy from now on, if there are new proposals, to communicate them directly in the National Assembly. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Yeah, I'm in charge of what we've done for the last month. I presented briefly in the statement what was done and replied that it was already coming out of the Framework Position on the Constitution, which does not appear. There is a suggestion, I said it and what is her proposal for the Constitution, I assume you wrote it down. Regarding the negotiation process, it is about the negotiation process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia within the framework of the French Presidency. We are not talking about past periods, much more about evaluating colleagues who are also foreign ministers or prime ministers. That's not gonna happen here. Regarding the visits of the chairman of the parliamentary group there is such a people.I do not know what individual visits he has had, but we had a visit together on 4 February to put a wreath on the grave of Gotse Delchev when you know very well what was done with the Bulgarian flag, 15 minutes after we left the church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u234	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Does GERB-SDS have any questions? Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u235	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Madam Minister, you will allow me because Mr. Hristo Ivanov in his question twice mentioned my name, I do not know why, so I do not take a separate personal explanation, to tell him. Mr. Ivanov, it seems to me that you are the man who spent five years on TV screens announcing sentences. [[(Reply:.......................................................................]] And you keep going, yeah. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. I didn't expect you to forbid Members of the National Assembly a little bit of reasoning on the Penal Code, just purely theoretically, since you are doing it again, and you were doing it until you bored everyone, perhaps today you understand the meaning of another rule: "Do not judge, lest you be judged, so don't. Mrs. Gencovska, there have been many reports in the media whether I should call them, do I suspect that during the talks that the Prime Minister has had with representatives of the European Commission and with Heads of State of other countries, conditions have been adopted by him to bind the realization, the granting or I do not know what to call it, the funds under the Recovery and Development Plan and the operational programmes with our consent to give consent to the start of negotiations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. It seems to me that the funds from the operational programs and Bulgaria's recovery and development plan are being followed, they are our right. And to negotiate, giving up rights to violate national interest, it seems terrifying. I ask you to answer my question is there any indication that anyone in Bulgaria has agreed to the recovery and development funds under the Plan and the operational programmes to be released and translated only after we accept the conditions for the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u236	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Cholakov, in the six months since I became Minister, I've only had the opportunity to accompany the Prime Minister to his official visits several times. The only meeting I attended during his official visit was the first official visit to NATO and the European Union, at which I was last included in the delegation. It was then the only meeting I had with representatives of the European Commission and this topic was not raised. I have not attended other meetings with representatives of the European Commission. I really can't say, I can't answer you specifically because I haven't been to these meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u238	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there a question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it is evident from the media that a meeting of the Council of Ministers has now started. You do not attend it, but I am sure that as a minister, although resigned, you have absolutely all the powers. We see that we are currently discussing a point that is related precisely to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, at least Prime Minister Kiril Petkov has announced this. Are you familiar with this point? Was it present on the provisional agenda that you were aware of yesterday, as far as I know from the practice, or is this improvisation of the moment of Kiril Petkov? Please, if you have more information, provide it to the Chamber, of course, however, in compliance with the laws of the country, given that the sitting is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u240	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Anastasov, I am ready to take part in the meeting of the Council of Ministers, as I have already said, naturally with a prepared folder of materials and agenda. Coming to my hearing was given at the last moment a new item on the agenda that I returned because I cannot attend both meetings at the same time. I didn't get to know him, but I'm guessing the extra folder includes the point you're quoting. I've answered this question before. I'm not familiar with it, and I have no information to go through prior coordination with the Foreign Ministry and I don't even know who the importer is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u242	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Is there a question from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. There is such a people? Mr. Balabanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Genchovska, since we have been trying all day to understand the truth and to comply with the law, it will be obvious that it will be difficult, we will do everything possible for this to happen so that the MPs can actually understand what the truth is, but I allowed myself in the public domain last week to introduce the public to something that happened to me in a direct conversation with the Prime Minister when we were still travelling as part of this delegation in Ukraine. I suppose you're aware, in the public domain, I've made some notes by the Prime Minister regarding his idea and his position and his policy, which he's been trying to conduct all this time, related to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. My question in the context of these words is this: do you think such a policy has been led by the Prime Minister and his foreign policy team, namely: first we raise the veto and then everything else in words, perhaps through some guarantees and negotiation frameworks and so on, but the timing itself is important from this note that I showed in the public domain? First we raise the veto and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u244	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Balabanov, in a previous response, in which I tried not to break the law, I mentioned an email of the foreign policy advisor, which actually points to the particular thesis that you are referring to. Later, we refer again to a memorable note that has a griff.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u246	Thank you, Madam Secretary. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u247	Madam Minister, you didn't answer the questions I asked you, but I will ask you new questions. You just said because, indeed, Mr. Balabanov formulated a very fundamental question: is it the purpose of Bulgarian policy to achieve, firstly, full fulfillment of all expectations, finally, by the Republic of Northern Macedonia, is this realistic or what you have presented us as your achievements? By the way, I was very interested in the extent to which you defined them as your only achievement, that is, no one else has anything to do with it. Who was President Macron talking to? How exactly were dialogues conducted between the Bulgarian government and the French Presidency? No one else has any role to play in the achievements, but your achievements which you have described and which I think it is worth leaving them unaffected by this domestic political drama, they suggest that this is precisely what the adoption of certain European guarantees, specifying the commitment by Northern Macedonia to follow-up. Here I want you to tell us really clearly: when we talk that the Republic of Northern Macedonia will commit itself to a European guarantee that it will change its Constitution to a future moment, right, until the first intergovernmental conference, which is in the future, do you agree with that? So you were discussing a package that suggested, first, veto lifting, then changing the Constitution, then holding the first... No, no, let's get this straight, because it's really important. Let me also ask: To what extent have you coordinated your foreign policy actions and your domestic political behaviour with the party leader who broadcast you to clarify again the question of whose policy it was? Last but not least, if we receive from the French Presidency certain proposals and these proposals we consider them if we have a political opportunity to deal with them at all, because we will burn everything at the moment, and that is what we are doing. Nod and agree with me. He's honoring you. But let's say we get something that's pretty close to what we've set ourselves as targets, and if we accept it and it really happens in the term until the end of the French Presidency, where is the national betrayal?! If we get something that we don't accept within this deadline because here in this room this thing will happen, what is the nature of these commitments that the Prime Minister has made, and where is the national betrayal?! Because all commitments could only be subject to the condition that they will finally be voted here in this House. I have personally said this to the President of the European Commission, and to tell you, even if she has stayed or the Commissioner has stayed... By the way, I told him that myself. [[Reply: "Search! "]] I haven't heard a signal yet. Even if they were left under some misinformation, I personally guaranteed that they could not be fooled by any commitments. [[Reply: "Search! "]] By the way, also the premise that the European Commission can stop our money is not based on absolutely no understanding of institutional logic. How can commitment to action be adopted subject to binding competence?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u249	Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u250	Just let the answer be completed, and the procedure. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Balabanov.]] There's a question, there should be an answer. After the answer I will give you the opportunity to conduct a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u251	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov, I never said it was my personal merit. I said it was the merit of the foreign ministry's expert team and the French Presidency's expert team. With regard to the communication between President Macron, it was, I suppose, with President Radev and the Prime Minister, whom I have not attended. You know President Macron's advisors have also visited. There was a meeting with President Radev's team and the Prime Minister's team. I say merit because really the time is short and we have lost five months to explain ourselves to European partners, to commissioners, to Euro-Atlantic partners what our position is and I believe that after these five months... [[Reply.]] We're talking about the framework position, what we're expecting. We expect the Bulgarians to be included in the Constitution before the veto is lifted. [[Reply from the National Representative Hristo Ivanov.]] Before the veto goes up! [[Noise and lines.]] It's the only position we've stood for. If you mean first IPPC veto, i.e. before the first IPPC. This is a 100% condition to include Bulgarians in the Constitution and to complete the procedure, after which the veto or IPC will be lifted. [[Reply.]] I don't know what veto you're talking about. Nobody's talking about veto. We're talking about the First Intergovernmental Conference. With regard to coordination with..There is such a people.................... there is such a people......................... there is such a people. Every week, the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" has a meeting of the group, attended by all ministers who are broadcast by the "There is such a people" and at each such meeting I or my deputy has informed about this process. These are basically the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u252	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Balabanov, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, as the questions I have asked are still being asked on the basis of some factology, some things that I have shown in the public domain. Those are facts. Now, if we're going to prove, of course, there's a legal order in which to prove these things, graphical experts, lie detectors. I'm talking in the context of my question about what I've done in the public domain these two weeks. But please don't let questions be interpreted as suggestions from this tribune. Let's see what the facts are. Mr. Ivanov has the opportunity to get acquainted with the things that are still in the Secret Office of the National Assembly. And let's give it a chance once, so we're here today, here's the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to understand factology before we try through a question of creating suggestion, distorting opinion, trying to put other people's words into someone's mouth. Here, there are facts. They're in this business.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u254	Mr. Balabanov, let's not analyze Mr. Ivanov's question anyway. I understand the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u255	We're all here. Give us this opportunity to get acquainted with the facts, not make suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u256	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Mr. Karimansky. I hope you will not enter into the same controversy and comment on Mr. Ivanov's question, which is unacceptable under this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u257	No, no, no. To you, to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u259	I am making the proposal to you, Mr. Chairman, and rather a procedure in the manner of conduct, because, please, when everyone is speaking through sensations, suggestions or anything from this House, ask him if he has really familiarized himself with the documents in the Secret Office, so that we can be justified and stick to factology, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u260	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Is there a question from rebirth? Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u261	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we witness the chronology of an impeccable, perfect, perfect national betrayal. Part of this betrayal is betrayal of the Bulgarian language, which we heard earlier. So my question in this regard is: what kind of commitment has been made and with what motives did the Prime Minister and his team refuse to defend the truth, namely that the so-called Macedonian language is a literary norm of the Bulgarian language? Because it can happen that tomorrow someone has claims for other languages disguised as independent languages, which are also a dialectic form of the Bulgarian language. What kind of commitment is made, with what reasons is it justified, why the Bulgarian state in the Prime Minister's face gave up defending the truth and our native Bulgarian language? Thank you. PRESENT MIROSLAV Ivanov Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u262	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Georgiev, I refer again to a previous reply in which I mentioned an email from the foreign policy adviser of the Prime Minister for a draft of a new framework position in which our position is completely absent as it is currently formulated. What I am currently driving by memory is proposing is a return to the so-called Portuguese proposal for the language, which was rejected by the previous regular government, is not included in the framework position. The direction in which the foreign policy adviser was walking is precisely the acceptance of this Portuguese proposal, which is one-sided declarations with wording of the Bulgarian position and wording of the language by the colleagues of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, but this is rejected, as I said, and is not the subject of the current framework position of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u263	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, we are continuing with the attitude of the parliamentary groups. We're continuing the Change? Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief summary of what we saw today. Yes, we lost a lot of parliamentary time, we wasted a lot of time on Bulgarian citizens too, but we wanted to inform them about something that they should be deeply concerned about. We therefore suggested that this hearing be opened so that no insinuations can be made, all the facts are told, and that everyone can draw their own conclusions from what we have heard. What did we see? Naturally, as I mentioned earlier, a cheap scenario. In this scenario, insinuations were made, remarks were made, about commitments. More about that in a little while. But at this point, what we saw was that there was a scenario prepared. Mrs. Genchovska was prepared for this scenario, but she did not answer any of our questions, which were absolutely specific, clear questions, which could have been answered in a short way with....................................................................................... We didn't hear those answers. We don't know why, since we want to introduce people, we want to see what factology was, what happened, where there was betrayal, misleading people. We didn't hear such things, we didn't hear answers to these questions. Notice, not because they are griffins are classified or referencing to documents that are not public. No, there was simply no answer. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I wonder why?! Yes, these documents are entered, everyone will be able to meet them. I'm calling Mrs. Genchovska, since she's classified this document, why did she secrete it, first?! Secondly, is the Prime Minister familiar with the content of this memorable note? What was his reaction? And unscramble these documents. [[speaking indistinctly]] Whoever has detected them, let them all see them, let the Bulgarian society see them to draw their conclusions. I'm not going to continue in this scenario. I want to talk to the facts with what we heard today, and we heard it from no one else, but from the resigning minister. What did Mrs. Genchovska say? He said: there are no decisions and actions by the Prime Minister to bring out the negotiation process outside the framework set by the National Assembly. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u265	You're embarrassing yourself! You're embarrassing yourself! Sit down, you're embarrassing yourself!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u266	This should be heard by Bulgarian citizens, not refer to some hidden napkins, toilet paper and so on, things on which we have written things. It was the first fact that someone made a commitment... Yes, I think we agreed here in the Chamber that it is within the powers of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers to conduct the foreign policy of Bulgaria and in these talks it is normal to negotiate, to discuss in order to seek the best solution in defence of the Bulgarian national interest. If there was any commitment, why have we not seen a retreat from this framework position before? There is nothing like that, so actions that such a commitment implies, we have not seen. What do we see? We see a result again in the words of the Minister in resignation, we have a relatively good result, which we will expect to be informed in more detail. This result not only protects all commitments from the framework position, but also builds on such as the entry of the Bulgarian people as a landmark in the Constitution of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I mean, what do we have? On the one hand, suggesting that something is happening, that national interest is being undermined. On the other hand, some very good results that we all expect to see and which confirm that the actions that have been done in recent months have actually been useful and have led to these good results. To attribute these results to just one limited group of people and to make situations for others how they have tried to ruin this policy, excuse me, but it is misleading. So I therefore stick to the facts and things that you have said here in the Chamber. This was confirmed by the press conferences that Prime Minister Petkov gave together with Mr Varhei. If there are such commitments, why did Mr. Varhei not tell the media, in front of all citizens, that there are such commitments and he expects them to be respected. Such a thing we have not heard, no matter how memorable notes you have on negotiations that are conducted, which is entirely within the authority of the Prime Minister. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm done. Perhaps here, too, I would mention by bringing facts out today and talking in principle about positions, say that in 2020, not someone else, but then Prime Minister Boyko Borisov actually raised the veto at a meeting of the European Council. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There are such documents that prove it and that is why the surprise of our European partners at the moment that Bulgaria is changing its position. Let's see who stands for the Bulgarian national interests so that we get everything we want and more, and who retreats from the Bulgarian national interests and takes actions behind the back of the National Assembly that put us in an extremely bad situation against our European partners. By the way, the same thing that this hearing did today, here for Bulgaria and for the strength of the Bulgarian position. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u267	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Mitov, you're welcome to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Gyurov, I don't know if we lost time today, but surely you lost respect, at least with the refusal and the obstruction to secure at least part of the meeting, for the simple reason that of the documents that we could read or to which Mrs. Foreign Minister refer, things could be understood, which we are now hardly speculating about, and they are reality. I can't explain anything else how Boyko Borisov picked up the veto when there's still a veto?! What do you mean he didn't pick it up?! [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. # Noise and lines from # We keep on changing #]] All right, let's get to the conclusion. External policy should in principle rest on continuity, logic and a plan to be followed by any next government because it is based on some expertise, on some awareness, on the memory of the state. The framework position, the declaration of parliament, built during the management of GERB, reaffirmed at the Advisory Council on National Security, gives clarity, because this is what frames every next Bulgarian government should be moving in if this government did not have the power to change this framework. As the framework has not changed, such attempts have been made, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the Foreign Minister. Even the claim that it was not exiting the framework position is not correct enough for the simple reason that there are obviously attempts to exit it, i.e. to propose a new framework position in which the Prime Minister was ready to give up the basic positions already laid down in this framework position, which is still valid. That is, the experience was done, it was unsuccessful, but that does not mean that during his meetings Prime Minister Kiril Petkov did not make commitments, as it became clear to us during this hearing. Obviously he was ready to give up the basic positions laid down in the framework position, such as the formula for language, minority claims by the Republic of Northern Macedonia and so on, the Minister said it, but you refuse to hear it. In early December, there was a document at the Foreign Ministry which was the result of the work of the same Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which Skopje obviously because of consistent policy until December had begun to accept and show flexibility in relation to the Bulgarian demands. Mr. Petkov's government came and started talking about working meetings, working groups, airline lines, bus lines, train compositions, anything. The signal that was sent to Skopje has obviously led Skopje to withdraw everything that has been achieved so far and to start relying on the external way, as Mrs. Foreign Minister said, on external pressure on Bulgaria, to rely on Bulgaria's so-called new approach to put its old position behind it, the one confirmed by the KNS. This started to produce bad results as bad signals were sent from Bulgaria. Bulgaria has practically signaled Skopje "Forget what we have done so far, we will now do other things." Here on the debate about whether the Council of Ministers and what a leading role the Prime Minister has in foreign policy. Yes, the Council of Ministers has a leading role in foreign policy, but the Council of Ministers in foreign policy as well as in any other policy is guided by the expertise of the relevant ministries and by the accumulated experience and memory. So what the Prime Minister has to do is rely on this memory. It must do so that it coordinates and arranges the talking and actions of the institutions so that no weakness is designed outside. As the truth is that our relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia have been complicated in recent months rather than getting better and improved, and this is due to the various signals that have arrived from individual representatives of the Bulgarian state on the one hand of the Foreign Ministry and the Foreign Minister, on the other, the Prime Minister. This is always seen as a sign of weakness on the other side, and therefore it refuses to move forward and be responsible for the bilateral agenda. It's a fact. This is a fact, because we are at the end of the French Presidency at a dead end and we will not be able to do anything, and we could if it had been continued, if these signals had not been given in mid-December by the Prime Minister, we could have already made such an agenda that both sides would have been satisfied and that we had already concluded this issue. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I have to tell you that if we were in any way involved in this issue, this would have happened.. I guarantee it. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] I'll tell you this...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u269	The weather, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u270	...all the politics... I'm done, Mr. Chairman, thank you for understanding. ...all the policy regarding the Republic of Northern Macedonia so far seems to me to be an ambulant policy. However, from an ambulant merchant in power, I cannot expect anything other than an ambulant policy. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u271	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Yordan Tsonev for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! The position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans has been clear for many, many years. We are categorically about the country, we believe that the Bulgarian national interest to recall this position is that all countries in the Western Balkans should become members. When I say all the countries, I do not mean only Albania and Macedonia and Serbia and Turkey to become members of the political economic club in which we are a member of the European Union, and the Military Club is NATO. Some of them are already mostly in the Military Club because only this membership can be guaranteed stability, peace and security in the Balkans. The whole story says there's no other way. But what happened on the saga of Macedonia. Today's debate has shown some very grave mistakes. First, Mr. President, to address you this procedural error not to close the meeting, it also has one more dimension, it is not true that in the Secret Section we can read the materials. We went there. First we were told the employees were here, the chairman wouldn't let them in, because he could start a closed session at any moment. All right! Then don't send us to the Secret Section to read. We want to read and ask. Secondly, it was then understood that you have not yet signed the documents to be available in the Secret Section. I'm saying this to make it clear at one to five, and I'm saying that's true. So there were procedural moves here that were not worthy of such an important topic. There were also attempts to counter the issue of the social policy with the topic of Macedonia. I'm gonna leave that out of your mouth at all. If someone in this House believes that the change in the budget for this year is more important than such a serious foreign policy issue as Macedonia's membership, then something has gone wrong with its profession and has no place in this Chamber. [[Reply.]] No, because we've heard such statements. What do we think is the answer that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave to Mr. Karadayih's question, yes and no? The answer was very clear yes, it contained such data that the Prime Minister had made commitments that were not in line with the documents. Yes, Mr. Gurov, the Council of Ministers implements foreign policy, yes the Prime Minister too, not the advisers, not by document, not by the Council of Ministers, not by Constitution, not by law. I don't know who Mrs. Cherneva is and I don't care at all, but writing this and that can only be done by the Prime Minister. She can do it on his behalf, but in the appropriate way with his signature and so on. It became clear that such commitments were made. We have tried to explain to you, without having access to the Secret Section, that our foreign policy partners have told us it has been taken over. I can tell you who and where, but after I read the documents in the Secret Section, I'll tell you that to confirm it. I know it is, and I know what it is, and we, the whole group, know it. Such commitments, which are not in accordance with the documents, are not in accordance with the Treaty, are not in line with the decision of the Council of Ministers, are not in line with the position of the KCC. What was the Prime Minister supposed to do? Let's start a debate here, first of all, change here, find consensus and start solving the issue. Because with this position of commitment I will do your job, in fact it blams the Bulgarian national interest, blaming and Macedonian. Because we had to convince the Bulgarian public opinion that Macedonia's entry is an essential issue for our national security. We, here we are, not the Prime Minister! If he imagined that a spring bird would make, he'd have a terrible disappointment. He could be waiting for more serious legal things, I don't know. I therefore believe, Mr President and colleagues, that today we really should have had a debate in which to see these things. I assure you, on behalf of our parliamentary group, that after reading the documents, the memorable notes, which are not notes, the memorable note is a document of official content, nothing that is a note, nothing that is memorable. It goes in a corresponding order that we do not explain and so on, i.e. the moment when we read and see that other people, other foreign policy partners of ours, say that he has taken over to them, we will make it public to the Bulgarian public. It does not matter whether it is secret or not. Secret things from the Bulgarian people on this topic will not be allowed! Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Partial applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u273	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister for Retire, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A few words from us in today's hearing. It was, of course, a very disappointing hearing, because if we were going to give this hearing some perspective on relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the context of the enlargement of the European Union, if we wanted to explain to the Bulgarian citizens what positions are being defended, they are currently defending themselves and what is to come, we could not do anything like that. It didn't work out. Obviously, the purpose of this discussion was not a real debate on politics, as serious as it suits a country with history like ours, and with such a framework as the Republic of Northern Macedonia in Bulgarian history, especially in the latest. The purpose of this hearing was to be a trichan, excuse the word, the Prime Minister for some things...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u275	Maybe another one, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u276	...who remain unproven. In fact, I call once again for these memorable notes to be declassified. There's been enough talk about them today, enough indications of what they might contain. Let the Bulgarian citizens who actually followed our debate today, again I say, on BNT 1, on National Radio, do not get the impression that something who knows what is hiding from them. Regarding the issue and the thesis that some commitments have been made, I do not know how to make commitments by the Prime Minister. Obviously these are some talks that have been held, but there is not a single official document in which the Prime Minister has asked for any decision on the matter, to have committed himself to a signature, with... And in these notes there are some statements of the commissioner who may also be part of his negotiating tactics. I cannot say that we can with such certainty rely on what he has said in meetings, repeating words to the Prime Minister. For me, it's a little bit of absurd, and it's really pathetic. I want to keep the good tone, of course, whatever has happened and is about to happen in our relations, we need to keep the good tone, but I think some boundaries have crossed today, from which no one has won, we have lost everyone. We missed the opportunity to explain to the Bulgarians what the main demands are. After all, we also had to discuss the extent to which it is achievable, how far we have come and what is to come. Let us say once again: the implementation of the 2017 Treaty is largely specified in the specific things that we have asked for and which, as far as I understand it, Mrs. Genchovska, you have further specified in your last talks in the last month, things that are worth discussing in the Committee on Foreign Policy perhaps because obviously you will need the more specialised body to go into more detail. I believe that the cabinet's decision today, as far as I understand it, has been taken, if it is not, any such proposals relating to the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Albania will probably be made, of course, to the European Union to be sent to the Committee on Foreign Policy. There is no greater transparency than this. Whether it's the most effective way, I can't say, but in any case it will cross attempts at suggestion, for betrayals, for changes in positions and so on. As regards the 2019 negotiating position, it is a decision of the Council of Ministers. By the way, the National Assembly has a declaration, the declarations generally do not have a binding character, but I would like to say again that it is imperative for us, whatever happens from now on in these relations, as it has been so far, to continue to be in the future, to have maximum agreement in the Bulgarian Parliament, to have consent of the institutions in the following steps, because only a solid process, long-term, can guarantee us the realization of the Bulgarian interests and not these petty brawls and playfuls, which we have seen recently. I want to tell you that BSP is actually the only Coalition party that put relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and their membership as a red line. This position we have stood for, we have tried to have a dialogue, to look for the steps, but this position is defended and will be defended. Just to remind you that it was the leader of the "There is such a people" that proposed that the Republic of Northern Macedonia be released into the European Union against Bulgaria's Schengen membership and visa waiver with the United States. [[Noise and lines.]] Right, these are public statements, I'm not saying anything that's different. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] But who says what, the point is that we are at some point where we need to have a reasonable continuation of this policy. I urge from now on all of us to talk seriously, because the people, the Bulgarian people, will not forgive us if we thus continue to treat the subject of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. We have wasted a lot of time, but I believe that the National Assembly and in this composition, in this format, still with dignity to continue this topic. Otherwise, in principle, to end with a maxim, I recently came across a journalist who said that if one thing does not have a reasonable sequel, at least let there be a worthy finish. And if there is no reasonable continuation of our joint work in this coalition, let us at least see the finale with dignity, not the way we are doing it now. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u277	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Tosko Yordanov for expression of attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Genchovska! I do not understand how a Member of the National Assembly can say that with this meeting on the subject of Northern Macedonia, we have wasted the time of the Bulgarian citizens on this topic?! Anyone who says that does not deserve to be a Bulgarian MP may be someone else. Secondly, it became brutally clear from the hearing that the Prime Minister had taken another position, which is different from the decision of the National Assembly, from the statement of everyone at the Advisory Council, from the framework position. The very fact that he was trying to break them is a national betrayal. Secondly, his position on Bulgaria's retreat on the topic of the so-called language of Macedonian, which does not exist, is national betrayal! If you think it's not true, he personally suggested to me that we come up with an option to give in to the Macedonians so that they would agree to this and that it was very important to him, he said: "This is a request from their side to me. What he has told Commissioner Varhei is everything else, but completely different and far away, in another direction from the decisions of the National Assembly, the framework position and statements of the Advisory Council. This is national betrayal! For all of you who claim that a press conference is worth more than such talks, I just want to tell you: imagine the theoretical version in which a group of people organise a coup, publicly say they do not, but do they carry out their attempt to organise a coup national betrayal or not? If a group of people get together and try to bring Bulgaria in, say, within the Ottoman Empire why not, would it be national betrayal, or are these just conversations of people who would otherwise publicly say something else?! So the facts are clear. Has Kiril Petkov tried to conduct another policy other than national? Yes! Is this national betrayal? Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u279	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov, for the attitude. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u280	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, indeed what we are dealing with has nothing to do with the Bulgarian policy regarding Northern Macedonia. I was going to say almost none, but as far as there is any attitude at all, it is negative and harmful, as Mr Vigenin said. What is happening is an ugly disintegration of the ruling coalition, in which we have tried and tried not to participate, not to contribute to all this ugliness, but because now it has started, i.e. the topic of Northern Macedonia, which is too important to be put into the fight for short-term power in Sofia, will have to come out of this tone. In practice, what is trying to happen to this hearing again, by the way, because there was already a closed session on this topic and on these facts, the second time this topic is brought out for an exclusive and only propaganda purpose. And this propaganda goal is to create the legitimacy of a potential contender for the third term, to create the moral legitimacy of the political formation, which has already stated the intention to be the winner of the third term. In this, in itself, there is absolutely nothing wrong with it is part of the democratic process. The problem is that for this purpose there is such an important topic, in such a harmful way, because the result of this propaganda, which we remember when it began, started with a status of Mr. Trifonov, in which it was related to the failure to broadcast Mr. Karimanski as the Governor of BNB and was absolutely clear from this status that the accusations of national betrayal are, so to speak, in revenge for this personnel priority has not been realised. By the way, when one day the history of this brief coalition is written, it will be seen that the importance of occupying this post was more important than anything else. Huge time, public energy was wasted on one man's ambition to take up one post. I don't know if in the history of Bulgaria any other time and at such a time such a miracle has happened! And now it's going on. So, we are on our way, the resigned minister described that we are about to receive, as a result of the efforts of the French Presidency and of various institutions in Bulgaria, not only of the Foreign Ministry, Madam Minister, to obtain a good basis for making political decisions. It's probably not 100%, but it's pretty close to that. And we will not be able to rule on this base as on the issue of Macedonian politics, because it was already plastered with tar and feathers, and at all the attempt to seek any solution was incriminated. From now on, no Bulgarian Prime Minister will dare to have a conversation at all, because this will be announced under art. 103 of the penal code that was read to us here. Practically incriminating the very attempt to have conversations, to look for different options, as an attempt to violate the discussion itself. I should also be incriminated, because I have personally participated in meetings, again I say, with both the EU Enlargement Commissioner and the President of the European Commission. By the way, I have both told them that I am skeptical, that something will happen, however much this is necessary for Bulgaria. Not Northern Macedonia. We, and I want to remind you of that, have our own, national interest in being together in the European family with those people across the border with whom we claim something connects us. But we don't care about anything about these people. We froze them to a great extent to deal with a cheap, sleazy power struggle here today. And not just today. [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria...........................................................................................]] Coming here today, and I was looking at portraits of people who have invested their lives in Macedonia, and I am ashamed of what we do with this topic, and by trying to find some solutions in an extremely complex environment, to have talks, to conduct consultations, and by making it absurdly impossible to have a political dialogue between Bulgaria, Northern Macedonia and all institutions in Brussels. We've brought this all to absurdity! We, colleagues, are now falling into collective political insanity and sacrificing the very idea that Bulgaria's participation can be discussed further enlargement of the European Union. Our failure will not just be a failure at one stage of negotiations between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, our failure will be a failure for the very idea that further it makes sense to expand the European Union on the territory of the Western Balkans. It's a monumental crime to tell you political, not criminal code, but that doesn't make it any less fateful. Shame! [[(Applause from the..Democratic Bulgaria...........................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. And the last attitude, Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u282	Mr. President, this hearing today was very useful because among other things it happened in the eyes of millions of Bulgarians, of course, and in the eyes of journalists and I believe that everyone who watched today what was read spoke and said here in the Chamber made their conclusions. However, I will make a not very pleasant historical parallel, which I pointed out just a moment ago, while commenting on whether it should be opened or closed. For the last time such talks regarding Macedonia, leading to accusations of betrayal, were conducted here in 1946 and 1947. They ended with the fact that the then ruling party, it wasn't actually even a party just yet, but a coalition of the Father's Front, decided to throw one of Nikola Petkov's parties, Nikola Petkov himself was executed then in a rather fast, farce, parody trial, and the party was disbanded. One of the topics, which in fact then serves as the basis of the fault within the coalition, is Macedonia, because in the Blagoevgrad region, then still Petrichka district, began a process of violent Macedonianization. By the way, then, if you look at the transcripts of the National Assembly, because they, thank God, are not secret, everyone can look at them and have been published long ago, do not differ much from those we are listening to here. Nikola Petkov and his party accuse the ruling coalition of committing national betrayal on the topic of Macedonia. Georgi Dimitrov explains the opposite then, on the contrary, we are helping the people of Macedonia and fulfilling our international debt. We are helping to build a new path for Macedonia's development. Does that sound familiar to you? Just replace international with European and things will be adjusted in a way. One-to-one is a situation now as much as anyone doesn't like it. History, unfortunately, sometimes repeats itself as a farce. At the moment, what happened was and we all saw that our Prime Minister was trying to conduct a parallel policy. There was also the answer I received from Mrs Genchovska for what, thank God, was not secret and it appeared that he had made commitments to the Commissioner for Enlargement of the European Union. Not to mention the fact that it became clear that the Bulgarian state is ready, in the face of Kiril Petkov, nevertheless he represents the state at the moment, being head of the executive power, to give up one of the main foundations of the Bulgarian position regarding the Macedonian issue, and it is that there is no Macedonian language. Any other formulas, wordings, hypotheses and other similar slippery plays are purely national betrayal, because now me and each of us can start speaking in dialect and start pretending that this is a separate language. In Macedonia it is spoken in Bulgarian! This is the official position of the Bulgarian state. By the way, I use the name Macedonia on purpose because this name Northern Macedonia is an artificial name. It is not known how long it will last and it was the result of pressure from Greece, which our country once opposed. Borisov changed his position sharply, however, after one not as heavy as the current pressure against Bulgaria, but again pressure on us to adopt the position under the name Northern Macedonia. I mean, this isn't the first time we've been subjected to serious press to change our position, and to agree to something, and at what cost? At the cost of someone guaranteeing us beyond our bilateral relations a positive development in the process. Whether it is the European Union, the European Commission or Macron all this is extremely unserious and, by the way, sounds like an excuse. There is no power to make those people in Macedonia who are currently ruling the state take action in reverse to those who have declared themselves to their own society because they are hostages to a series of policies conducted in Macedonia for the last 90 years. By the way, to say something that is the exact opposite of what was mentioned just now about us freezing with the people of Macedonia. Not at all. Whoever says that thing just doesn't know our countrymen on the other side of the border. There is a huge difference between the opinion of the people on the streets and what their MPs in parliament express. The very same situation, by the way, as in Bulgaria, is the same as here, which creates the feeling to which the people's representatives are folks, but this is another topic. Nothing new under the sun. We are one people in two countries and we suffer from the same diseases in both the good and the bad sense of the word. There is a lot to be said about national betrayal, but there is one fundamental definition of what is really national betrayal is something that is different with the interests of the nation and with the interests of the state. Do we have any interest in recognizing Macedonian language? No. Do we have any interest in agreeing to the theft of history and forgery of history? Of course not. Do we have any interest in agreeing to the embezzlement of Bulgarian culture? No. Do we have any interest in giving way to the numerous provocations carried out by the old Serbo-Communist elite in Macedonia? Of course not. What's our interest? Our interest is for Bulgaria and Macedonia to be one country. It is said that our interest is Bulgaria to support Macedonia's membership in the European Union. Yes, no doubt, only not at all. And as has been said very clearly at the very beginning by Mrs. Gencovska, the problem is not with us, the problem is with the Macedonian country and we, as members of the European Union, must use our membership to exert pressure through our partners on Macedonia and not our partners to exert pressure on us through Macedonia. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u283	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. That's what we've run out of relationships with. Before I take a break, colleagues, as there will be access to the House for the next point, please, Mr. Karimansky, make the procedural proposal to vote on so that we do not start immediately after the break with the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be admitted to the Chamber under paragraph 1. 2 "The draft amendment to the State Social Security Budget Act 2022, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister, Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Department of Employment Law, Public Security and Conditions of Labour and by the National Insurance Institute: Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor, Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor, Dragomir Draganov Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u285	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Karimanski's procedural proposal for admission to the hall for the next item on the agenda of Mr. Lazarov, Mrs. Petya Malakova, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Draganov, Mrs. Karaivanova and Mrs. Snezhanka Malakova as well. Voting mode. They voted 163 MPs: 126, against 17, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. I give the floor for procedure before I give the break. The rest will be 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you, please inform the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Health and the Social Minister to order in the Chamber after the break we will still see the Law on amending the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u287	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'll take 30 minutes off, then we'll start with the reports. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u288	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Moving on to point two of the program: CHAPTER 1 1 - TOTAL I ask Minister Gokov and Minister Vassilev, who are in the building, to also order in plenary. A report came in from the leading Committee on Budget and Finance. Please, Mr. Karimansky, introduce us to the report. Please also have the persons whose access we have already voted in order to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u289	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022, No 47-202-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. At a meeting held on 9 June 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022. The meeting was attended by Asen Vassilev Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance; Georgi Gokov Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Ivaylo Ivanov Manager of the National Insurance Institute, representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. The Bill proposes changes in the parameters of the pension policy, which will be implemented in two stages from 1 July 2022 and from 1 October 2022. The proposals for changes in force from 1 July 2022 shall be: - All pensions for employment granted until 31 December 2021 shall be updated by 10 percent; - For employment pensions granted until 31 December 2021, the additional amounts paid on 30 June and individual amounts representing the difference between the income from a pension in December 2021 and the income from a pension in January 2022 shall be included in the amount of the pension received for a work activity after the update of 10 percent; - For employment pensions granted from 1 January to 30 June 2022, the additional amounts paid on 30 June shall be included in the amount of the pension; - Employment pensions to be allocated after 1 July 2022 are also envisaged to include 60 BGN. in the amount of the pension; - The minimum amount of pension for internship and age is increased from BGN 370. At 467 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received increases from BGN 1500. 2,000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - In connection with the projected increase of social pension for old age of 170 BGN. £247. and its related amounts of non-employment pensions and the allowances to be determined in percentage thereof, the financial parameters of the bill provide for the corresponding increase. The proposals for changes in force from 1 October 2022 shall be: - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received increases from BGN 2000. At 3,400 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Measures to compensate for the lag in pensions compared to the increase in average social security income for the period 2008 to date. As a result of the proposed changes to the regulatory framework, the consolidated budget of state social security remains balanced. The Bill contains an increase in: 1. Revenue and transfers received under the consolidated budget of the State Social Security by 1 386 500,0 thousand. lv. of 16 861 222.1 thousand lv. in the State Social Security Budget Act 2022 to 18 247 722.1 thousand. BGN, including: - 1 367 670.0 thousand. lv. an increase in the transfer from the central budget to cover the lack of funds, which increased from 6 961,377,0 thousand. lv. to 8 329 047,0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - 18,830,0 thousand. lv. the transfer received from the central budget for state social security for the payment of non-employment pensions and their additives. 2. Expenditure and transfers made to the general budget of the State Social Security by 1 386 500,0 thousand BGN, including: - 1 367 670.0 thousand. lv. by increasing the cost of employment pensions and their allowances, and - 18,830,0 thousand. lv. due to an increase in the cost of non-employment pensions and the additions thereto. The bill also envisions an increase in the cost of pensions and supplements paid by the Teacher's Pension Fund by 15 100,000. lv. The increase is entirely in the cost of pensions, which will increase to 83 731.2 thousand. lv. According to Mr. Ivanov's expectations, the average amount of a pensioner's pension, including the Teacher's Pension Fund, should increase to BGN 666. in July 2022, which is an increase of 23.2 per cent to its level in June 2022, without taking into account the additional amounts paid to pensions and by 9.4 per cent taking into account the additional amounts. In October 2022, the average pension of a pensioner, including the Teacher's Pension Fund, is expected to reach BGN 718. or increase by 7,8 percent compared to July 2022. A growth of 32.9 percent is expected compared to June 2022 without taking into account the additional amounts and 18,0 percent with additional amounts included. In addition, it is expected to reduce both the number of pensions for employment to a minimum and their share of the total number of pensions. Of around 980 thousand pensions for employment at the present minimum, their number in July will decrease to less than 806 thousand pensions, i.e. from around 51 percent of the total pension to about 42 percent of the total pension. It also reduces the number of pensions limited to the so-called "cavan'. From 33 200 at the moment, they are expected to be just over 1,000 in October. In this sense, the Bill has a positive effect by increasing the number of pensions paid in actual terms, which means that the amount of the pension of more and more people will actually correspond to their financial contribution to the system as recognised under current legislation. A discussion was held on the bill, which included the following opinions and requests: People's representative Lyubomir Karimanski voiced concerns about raising the share of the expenditure on gross domestic product pensions in recent years, which may have a long-term multi-layer negative effect on public finances, given Mr. Ivanov's forecasts for pension expenditure for 2023 and 2024, if the current changes are adopted, they are respectively: 3 763 million. lv. For 2023 and 4 253 million lv. For 2024, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] concerning the list of approved active substances, as provided for in Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and amending Regulations (EC) No 1107/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009, (EC) No 1107/2009 and (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3]. The representative of the Fiscal Council Ms. Dora Andreeva pointed out that the Fiscal Council supports the Bill with several remarks. First of all, the members of the Fiscal Council expressed concern about the sustainability of public finances, as in 2019 social security revenues covered 68% of the costs, while now only 54% of the pension costs. There are whole sectors, such as the services sector where no insurance is paid, leading to a reduction in the income from the insurance system at the expense of the tax system. And secondly, the unfair increase in minimum pensions, as a result of which the average pensions approach the minimum, which demotivates many people to pay on the real amount of income received. The employers' organizations in the face of Vasil Velev, AICB, and Szeryo Nozharov, BIA, did not support the bill, as long as it does not cure the defects in the pension model. People with a minimal contribution to the pension system and people with an average contribution will continue to receive the same pension. This, in turn, will lead to demoting people to provide real income, which is a powerful incentive for the gray economy. Concerns were expressed as to whether in the medium term the fisk will be able to bear the sharp increase in pension costs. Thirdly, the lack of reforms in medical and labour expertise, which also leads to abuse of disability pensions, was pointed out. They do not share the second increase of the maximum pension to BGN 3400, which according to the pension formula should be below BGN 2000. If you compare the gross salary, which is 1,600 BGN. and the net BGN 1250. After paying taxes and insurance, these pensioners will receive three times the average net salary of working people. In addition, Mr. Khjarov pointed out that the overall fiscal burden in Bulgaria is quite high.99.17%, while in the UK it is 35% according to European statistics. In this sense, the only approach to combating the grey sector is collecting insurance from all persons who do not pay, not increasing the insurance burden. The representative of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria Mrs. Asya Goneva expressed in the failure to support the bill on the methodology for the increase of pensions. According to her, employment pensions are becoming an unprincipled mix between pension insurance and social assistance with the inclusion of anti-coffee supplements in the actual amount of pensions, which violates the "contribution-right' principle. In addition, a serious resource is committed to the expenditure part without providing for changes that will improve, although little, the own revenues of the insurance system, and all the income parameters of the insurance budget remain at their previous levels. The representative of KT "Support" Ms. Vanya Grigorova supported the increase in pensions, but she also voiced concerns that no measures are envisaged to accumulate more own funds in the insurance system so that more pensions can be paid. According to her, it is absolutely necessary to increase minimum insurance benefits that have not been increased for years. In addition, measures should be laid down to combat the grey economy. According to an official analysis of the NRA, which is quoted in the European Commission Report, 58% of Bulgarian workers and 47% of Bulgarian employers fall into the grey sector. The increase in purchasing power and the reduction of the deficit in the insurance system do not contradict each other if the income from social security contributions is increased. Then the deficit will not increase and the purchasing power of the Bulgarian pensions will increase. The representatives of both trade unions requested that wages be increased by 10% not only to employees at the National Insurance Institute of 9 million. BGN, but also to all civil servants. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received:.......................... 13 MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022, No 47-202-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u290	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. We are now moving on to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u291	I will present the Committee on Labour and Social Policy Report in a summary. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022, No 47-202-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its extraordinary meeting, held on 10 June 2022, examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022, No 47 202-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers, approved by the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute on 2 June 2022. Representatives of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Labour "Supportpa", the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria took part in the Commission. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Ganev, Hasan Ademov, Iskren Arabadzhiev, Alexander Alexandrov, Denitsa Sacheva, Maya Dimitrova, Elisaveta Belobradova and Iliana Zhekova. The questions asked were answered by Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov, Vessela Karaivanova and Rositsa Spasova. During the discussion The draft was supported by the MPs from the parliamentary groups of "We are continuing the Change" "BSP for Bulgaria", "Democratic Bulgaria", "There is such a people" and "relationship." After the end of the discussion and voting with results:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u292	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. I'm opening the discussion on the bill. The Minister will also take part in the discussion. Sincere Arabadzhiev is for speech. I am recording Iliana Zhekova, Elizabeth Belobradova, Lyubomir Karimanski, Hasan Ademov, Georgi Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are facing one of the most important votes - the vote on the update of the state social security budget - and it depends on the fate of the most vulnerable groups in the Bulgarian society in the coming months. However, this update is a test of parliamentaryism and the responsibility of the MPs, because with the support or rejection not only of the budget of the NSI, but also of the other two budgets we will find out who works in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Over the past few weeks, every day in our minds has echoed a hysterical canonada of how the state is sinking, bankrupt, and today even tabled a vote of mistrust for failure to manage public finances. On the contrary, even yesterday, the German finance minister congratulated us on the stability of public finances. In order to understand why this budget is good, I must clearly say what challenges we have faced and what mistakes we have accumulated over the years we have had to correct within just a few months. We have found a mix of social and pension insurance and therefore we have set ourselves the goal of stopping a species of supplements, but not having a pensioner with a lower income; we have found a serious difference in the size of the old and newly granted pensions in the same social security income; we have found 50% of pensioners on a minimum pension and 34,000 people whose pensions have been reduced unfairly and have not received the actual amount of their pensions. The result is as follows: GERB for 12 years increased the average pension from 250 to 430 BGN, and in just six months the government of Change increased pensions by an amount higher than that of three governments of GERB combined from 430 to 718 BGN. Yeah, that's the Change. The money of Bulgarian taxpayers can be spent wisely and as intended to return to them. Another topic is the NSI deficit. We are being accused of increasing the deficit of the Fund, however GERB has been arrogantly boasting about the reduction of the NSI deficit, but this has been at the expense of pensioners and missing indices over the years. Our parents expect respect and just treatment. The challenges are heavy on the road as we atone for these sins of our predecessors, but it is our duty and we will go this way because a country is known by its attitude towards the elderly. After just a few months of work, we propose concrete actions to correct the accumulated imbalances. First of all, we're putting the cod add-on in the amount of each pension, so there's no drop in income. It's an illusion to think that after two years of paying off a kind of supplement, pensioners don't see it as part of the pension. However, it is our commitment not to allow this mistake to be made through the pension system in the future. We are changing the Swiss rule from this year to more than 100%, from the growth of the insurance income or inflation for the previous year. With this change, pensioners will receive their rightful indexion and we will not allow in the future a gap between the old and the newly released pensions, as so far every pensioner will receive from 1 July 10%. In order to eliminate the accumulated differences between the old and the newly released pensions, we also offer an individual recalculation of each pension from 1 October. This change will cover 717 thousand pensioners, with 200,000 going above the minimum pension. From 1 July the ceiling of pensions is raised to 2000 BGN and from 1 October to 3400 BGN. And thus another 33,000 pensioners will take their actual pension. Despite the positive changes listed, we will continue to listen to how disastrous this budget is for Bulgaria. Colleagues, let us not forget, however, that according to the fox, grapes are sour when it cannot reach it, and you have no access to this budget for a year and a half. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And instead of seeing the money of Bulgarian taxpayers stuffed in bags invested in luxury properties or exported in offshore accounts, we return it back to the people. Since you are not in power, revenues in the state budget rose by 34% or 14.5 billion, with only half of them from inflation. The accumulated inflation is 16% in the last three years, and the remaining 19% are the result of the better work of the National Revenue Agency and the focus is on the large taxpayers for which you closed your eyes. Are current changes sufficient? No! That is why we are continuing to reform the categories of work, disability pensions and to remove pensions that are not related to work. All these measures will restore confidence in the system, and this will strengthen long-term financial stability. The Parliamentary Group continues The Change will support the update of the state social security budget precisely because every day we are guided in our work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u294	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Iliana Zhekova. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Vassilev, Dear Mr. Gokov! The proposed update of the state social security budget does not fulfil the main commitment of the ruling coalition related to the pension system, on the basis of which one of the ruling parties in the Coalition built its political slogans, postulates during the ruling of the GERB party, namely to restore justice to the pension system. There are several reasons that lead to these conclusions. First of all, the update of the state budget and the state social security budget as proposed to us for approval put the future functioning of the pension system at risk. And that is because we are currently not provided with a three-year financial forecast for the country's budget, where we can trace over the next two years the increased pension costs from where they will be provided. This question has been asked by us in discussing the update of the budget of state social security in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, but we have not received an answer. It is currently available until the end of 2022. 1 billion The Commission Five hundred thousand. lv. to be provided for the increase of pensions by transferring from the central budget to the State social security budget, thereby increasing the transfer to cover the deficit in 2022 to 8 billion. The Commission 47,000. lv. It is important for us that Bulgarian pensioners know in the coming years how the Bulgarian state will provide funds for the payment of their pensions. On this issue you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, owe an answer not only to us the opposition, but also to the Bulgarian pensioners, to all Bulgarian citizens, in order to know whether in the coming years pensions will be paid out of new debts. The update of the budget of state social security, which in general concerns the size of our elderly parents' pensions, is a political move that is entirely populist, non-observing to respect financial stability and is essentially risky and without commitment to financial sustainability. Secondly, in Annex 13 of the Coalition Agreement, which concerns your commitments in the field of labour and social policy, in points 8 and 9, you have set yourself as a short-term objective of additional payment through the social system of pensions below the poverty line, as well as all payments unrelated to the social contribution, to be at the expense of the social system. However, you, ladies and gentlemen in charge, in practice, are doing exactly this, you include the sum of 60 BGN, which by 30 June 2022 is paid as an add-on to pensions, to the basic amount of the pension. In essence, this amount of 60 leva. it's not related to the pensioners' contribution, but it's not just that. You propose that the amount of 60 BGN should be included in the provision of a pension related to employment as of 1 July 2022. equal to all, regardless of their social security contributions. We believe that such an approach is wrong and will lead to a distortion of the pension insurance model and a violation of the basic principle of the solidarity pension system, namely the pension to be determined according to the insurance contribution of the person. This political decision of yours will disprove those who are at workable age to be provided on the basis of high social security income, because when retirement comes, the amount of their pension, if continued this policy of yours, will be almost equal or slightly greater than the pension of those who have provided themselves with minimum social security income. Thirdly, there is no mechanism for increasing the minimum pension and this leads to a convergence of its amount to the amount of pensions of those pensioners who make a higher contribution in terms of both income and actual insurance service. Fourth, the update of the budget does not show what pension policies you will conduct so as to provide adequate income to elderly pensioners by guaranteeing financial sustainability and increasing the maximum level of employment, that is, there are no prominent political decisions in support of a stable official service and longer work life for women and men. It is not clear what policy you will conduct so as to reduce undeclared work, as well as the introduction of insurance contributions to real labour income. These are also the opinions of the social partners that we heard in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. And I will conclude by saying that from GERB's parliamentary group, we are not opposed to increasing the amount of pensions, but we are opposed to putting public finances at risk and not having a clear vision next year how pension payments will be financed and what will be the financial sustainability of the proposed change in the pension model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vassilev, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! I take the attitude at the beginning to make a reply to Mrs. Zhekova, as I suppose there will be a lot of speculation in the whole debate and to answer the questions you asked, as you referred them to the Coalition, in the part of the BSP for Bulgaria. That we have defended this justice for the Bulgarian pensioners all these years, I am glad that you understood it, only I did not understand why you did not defend it until you ruled 13 years and led to the last recalculation of the Bulgarian pensions to be 2008 and since then nothing. [[partial applause by.. We continue The Change.....................................................................................................]] You're asking where these three hundred and eighty-six billion will be provided? Well, from the increased collection, honourable colleagues, from the stopped thefts, from the empty drawers, from there they would be, they wouldn't be anywhere else to be. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] There's money... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You're talking about the loans. For the loans, you must be specialists. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The 60 leva supplement was not fair because it was given to a muzzle. Well, who introduced this supplement? Who last year at this time gave 50 leva. To the pensioners to buy them for the upcoming April 4th elections? [[Comments from GERB-SDS. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] For Bulgaria, BSP did not give the 50 leva. You gave 50, and then you made 120, and now you're asking, "Who?" I've always said, when someone stands on this stand, think a little back in time what they've been doing. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, Mrs. Zhekova didn't do it, that's right. If a former minister had gone out, my criticism would have been even more serious, but you introduced this injustice, and now that the government is wondering how to get her up or how to get her to the norm, you say, why do these wrong things?! Aiming, you want, and you do not see adequate income of Bulgarian citizens, adequate income is not provided. My fellow Members, you held the Bulgarian pensioners at 300 BGN. 13 years pension, 300 leva. The Patriots made you do it. She was lower. Did you forget that? And only within one year the minimum pension of 300 BGN. It's 470, and you don't see that? How much do you want in a year? Yes, next year will be even higher, October will become the justice we all want. I hope you want it now. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u298	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Zhekova. Then the gentlemen in order, as I said earlier, Dr. Ademov, Lyubomir Karimanski, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, thank you for your reply. This supplement, which we paid during the management of GERB, was really for a horse and to compensate for all the costs that pensioners made for buying medicines, only at the moment you are continuing this policy that you say was wrong in our government. Why are you continuing this, why are you inserting this supplement to the basic amount of pensions? You're not explaining this to us, so what's the reason? After all, we also want the Bulgarian pensioners to receive higher incomes, but let's look at the state's options. You do not give us clear answers about this in the next two years where will these funds be taken? [[Reply from National Representative Georgi Svilenski: "Stop stealing! "]] But what thefts, what thefts are you talking about? Prove it! [[Reply from.. Continue Change......................................................................................................]] I thought you were going to build five bridges. I don't know how many tunnels of these thefts? What are you going to do next with these funds, build bridges, tunnels, pensions, what are you going to do? Come on, tell me, prove it. It's just talk. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u301	Since you are very worried about the financial stability of the country, as far as I hear, I will just give you a few facts. The first is: total pensions as a percentage of GDP in Bulgaria are 10.4%, on average in Europe are 12.7%, so we are quite far away as a total cost for pensions from the average European spending against GDP, which is how much we have worked out in this country and how much we can afford. Of everything we make, we set aside a little more than 10%, Europeans a little less than 13 for pensions. Last year, if you remember, during the update we had exactly the same debate: where will we get the pension money, the state will go bankrupt and so on. Not only did these funds fit into this budget calmly, but now there is an opportunity for additional funds and an additional increase. The same is true for next year and for next year and there are no problems with the sustainability of finances based on what is being undertaken in the pension system. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u302	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. You have the floor, Mrs. Bellobradova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! It's clear what we'll be talking about in the next few minutes. Within the framework of the budget update, we have several very important tasks, namely through a package of measures to support vulnerable groups in Bulgaria, which can and will most likely be affected by inflation in the country. That is precisely why we are talking about the universal In fact, they have also become some kind of support for vulnerable groups and pensioners who somehow compensate for the dangers of inflation. I would like to stress, however, that inflation is a global event - it is not Bulgarian, it is not local. The causes of inflation in Europe are mainly rooted in commodity deficits and increasing consumption. So all interpretations, I would like to stress, are part of the common deliberate suggestion of instability that inflation is rooted in the actions of the government in Bulgaria are false. Thanks in part to these processes, as well as optimizing tax collection, we have managed to reach revenue growth at stake by the Ministry of Finance and, as responsible politicians, we are deciding to reinvest this growth in the country by supporting vulnerable groups and supporting families and our parents. Especially our parents who will receive growth in pensions, as well as an increase in the ceiling. This growth includes, as my colleagues have already said before, 10% of the amount of pensions and the inclusion of the universal supplement of 60 BGN. This universal supplement, which now has another role. This support and its absolute completeness is imperative at this very moment, because inflation concerns everyone. The arguments that we should support only certain groups of pensions right now are untenable and in our view absolutely discriminative. However, the inclusion of universal supplements, which were aimed at supporting vulnerable groups in the environment of a species of pandemic, is considered a risk, a distortion of the pension model. Universal supplements, especially of a temporary nature, such as the pandemic, cannot be a permanent and permanent part of the formation of the amount of pensions, because we are thus reducing the possibility of stabilizing the amount of pension around the model of personal contribution. We believe that the personal contribution must be at the heart of the formation of the amount of pensions, although we have chosen the solidarity system and have accepted that the state must provide additional support in order to reach the final amount of the pension for each pensioner. There are a number of notes that this universal supplement, the universal supplements at all, because it is not only the addition to a horse mackerel, it belongs not to the insurance system, but to the social system and must be provided through the Social Assistance Agency. This, of course, sounds wise and logical, but as the social security system has been built for decades, it has requirements for the payment of sums of income and other criteria that would necessarily limit the universality of the supplement and in the existing system it cannot reach everyone if it enters through the social system. The reform in the social system in this sense has never been done. None of the existing parties have so far managed it, and it requires not only effort, which is not a problem, but also time, and not a month or three. In this regard, it is now a priority for us to support pensioners in order to live a decent life. The other reforms we are discussing, but they need time because it is a completely new reading of the existing work and therefore the abuse of the subject does not help much to solve this process. I wouldn't like to agree that there is money and they will really come at greater collection rates. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" believe that they should both support the social system and reduce the deficit and be invested in what Bulgaria will do for growth so that we do not constantly ask ourselves this populist question: "Where will we get this money?"
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Bellobradova. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, colleagues from the National Insurance Institute! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms very strongly supports the increase of the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners. The question of the methodology applied to achieve this increase is quite separate. With this update we expected the governors to perform the item. 45 of Annex 13 of the Mall Coalition Agreement. You promised within six months to do a full analysis of the pension system and to propose a plan for a comprehensive pension reform. With what you are proposing, we do not see an analysis or a system, not to mention a comprehensive pension reform. According to the reasons of the proposed bill, it only reflects changes in the spending part of the state social security budget so that anti-crisis measures relating to the amount of pensions can overcome the negative impact of inflation processes. At the end of last year, the government did not adequately and timely support business in connection with a drastic increase in energy prices. Such proposals were made by colleagues from the DPS, by colleagues from GERB-SDS, but unfortunately, the government did nothing in this direction. This short-sighted and wrong policy has led to a shocking rise in prices and subsequently unseen inflation in recent years to recall that for May on an annual basis it is now 15.6%. This required an anti-crisis pouring of a huge financial resource of a billion three hundred and eighty-six million into the pension system. Of course, the entire resource at the expense of a transfer from the state budget without a penny increase in the income from insurance contributions. Thus, the dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget and the pressure on public finances is getting stronger. Of the 41.3% with this budget, 45.6% of the costs of state social security are at the expense of taxes. The transfer is scheduled to reach the record 8 billion 329 million. For information, the deficit and imbalances in state social security were reduced to less than 40%. This trend of a rapid increase in the proposed transfer calls into question the financial sustainability of the system, especially in the long term. In the following year, an additional 3 billion 700 million are needed as a result of the solutions proposed now, and another 4 billion 200 million are needed in 2024. The update of pensions without an increase in taxes and social security contributions or debt financing shall be put at risk. There is no other way to finance. You just said you were financing from theft. If you're counting on this measure next year, that means you're going to steal, you're admitting it one to one. Next, our main and main objection is the unprincipled mix between pension insurance and social support, which is done with the inclusion of anti-coffee supplement in the actual amount of pension. This approach violates basic social security principles. The pension shall be supplemented by one or more supplements, thereby deepening the planned subsequent increase of 1 October. Despite the efforts made, the imbalances in the system continue. The fact that nearly over one million pensions of a minimum amount will already be 805 500 does not in any way resolve the issue of the balance between the contribution of the contribution of the pension. Nearly 70% of minimum retirement and age pensions do not have the necessary social contribution. And another example in the sector "Secure": the social contribution to the Fund is 60.8% in this sector and for the third category the social contribution is 19.8%. And yet the Fund is the deficit of revenue-costs, 340 million. Against this background and with the food crisis coming, you can raise sharply the minimum insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers to 700 BGN. It's basically a higher form of incompetence and cynicism. The proposal from October 1st of the personal claims of Perhaps in order to convince the voters of Coalition for Bulgaria that the long-standing promise to make use of all the pensions is finally fulfilled, not, colleagues, what you are doing is not making use of it, but updating it with a new coefficient chosen between the growth of the insurance income and the growth of inflation. You have rightly titled a modified Swiss rule, but you have missed the fact that we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in recent years in every budget have insisted on this. Recalculation is one of the possible tools to achieve adequacy, but it is realized with an up-to-date insurance income, not through the Swiss rule. We don't see that kind of effort here. Once again, I urge you to distinguish between recalculation, update, update. High-ranking representatives of the crumbling coalition did not tire of repeating the mantra that there would be no pensions below the poverty line. The facts show a completely different half of the pensions are under BGN 413. And one more thing. Recently the prime minister said that pensions for the last year have increased by an average of 167 BGN, and completely incorrect missed to add that 120 BGN. are a proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The maximum amount change is one of the expected changes in retirement and age pensions. In principle, this is a measure in the right direction, but the current approach to the choice of size, especially that provided for by 1 October, raises serious questions in view of which categories of insured persons and what contribution will benefit them to receive a pension that, for some of them, will be at times higher than the salary that a pension should normally replace. In conclusion. Instead of a comprehensive pension reform, as promised, without cost-benefit analysis, changes in the pension system are offered, suggesting an additional cost of nearly a billion and four hundred million. The attempt to suppress the fire of universal discontent with the purchase of political time always ends in the same way as a disappointing rule for the rulers. The lack of professionalism, expertise and forward-looking political behaviour leads to failure with unpredictable consequences for society. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the measures for the increase of pensions at second reading, but will make even more serious and significant proposals for a better standard of living for Bulgarian pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u306	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Mr. Chobanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ademov! I am very much in agreement with your speech, but I do have two questions: do you agree with my thesis that, in fact, with the current proposal, the government is trying to reach a level of pensions, which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has set with these 120 BGN. a supplement that was adopted in the update last year; and are we committed as a "Move" to propose between the two readings a more balanced solution than the current ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there any other lines? I won't. For the doppelganger? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chobanov, thank you for the line. It is clear that proposals must be made between first and second readings and we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will make sure that the proposals are serious, important, so that Bulgarian pensioners can feel a real increase in pension income. As for what you said at the beginning of your line, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have always been prepared to offer our expertise, to offer our knowledge and skills, so that the proposed bill looks better. We are ready to support now as long as our support is desired.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u310	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. To speak, Ljubomir Karimanski. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u311	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It makes me uncomfortable to see that the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) has three or four people who protect the most pension models in Bulgaria? Not the Minister of Labour and Social Policy? I don't know why these ladies and gentlemen are absent on exactly the most important budget we are discussing?! Before I begin the analysis of the proposed Law amending the Law on the Budget of State Social Security, I would like to remind you of several promises made during the adoption of the previous budget of state social security. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Deputy Prime Minister for EU Funds and the Minister of Finance have repeatedly assured the MPs that the income policies in the state administration will occur in the budget update. The fact that this thing is not being proposed now only means that the reforms we expect in the departments have not happened, and possibly there is no programme for what we expect to happen in them on the basis of the analyses that should have been drawn up by June 2022. From this tribune it was explained to young people that the maximum insurance income is rising as they would swallow some 100 leva. against better public services, better health care, health prevention, as well as access to kindergartens for young families. I would like to remind you that also the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy promised that the update would set a reasonable model for determining the maximum insurance income and thus reassured the colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" who rightly spoke on this issue several times. Whether IT and other sectors in the economy are now calm that it is clearly traceable the model to increase maximum insurance income remains questionable. There should have been a working group meeting and discussing this issue. He never got back together until now. At least we don't know until the moment we were in a coalition relationship. From the point of view of the analysis I'd like to give you. Under the macro framework of the budget, the national insurance institute's own revenues are expected to increase by only 0.2% to 9.9 billion with the budget update. This raises many questions, given that the Ministry of Finance expects, firstly, a very strong recovery in the labour market this year, reinforced by Ukrainian refugees too. Secondly, high nominal wage growth and thirdly, the administrative increase in minimum wage and maximum insurance income. This weak growth must be compared with the changed growth expectations of nominal gross domestic product by 5.2%, which signals problems with the lightening of individual sectors in the economy. An explanation may come from the expected increase in tax revenues and also the increase in tax reliefs for children, but the magnitude of the difference remains inexplicably large in costs. The cost will increase further by 8.2% to 18.2 billion. lv. in respect of the February 2022 budgetary framework, when it increased by a two-digit percentage again. Thus, the costs of the National Insurance Institute will increase with the huge 56,65% compared to the pre-crisis period, because I think it is normal to compare to 2019. The more detailed standard and at the same time we can say the better standard that we need to define, the life for pensioners is normal to be a priority for every government and every nation that would like to have a normal and respectable population that has earned all those incomes made in time from itself. Given that the pension system represents the toughest spending part of the budget, money without reforms will only deepen the structural problems of the system in view of the extremely rapid reduction of the population. That is, the demographic problem, especially when it comes to the working part of the population. This will increase the imbalances of public finances in the medium and long term, which will put strong pressure on the debt burden of the state. It should be noted that the growth envisaged exceeds the average for the period 2014. The difference becomes very serious about 20% if the budgetary framework adopted earlier this year is also taken into account. Concern also comes through the potential pro-inflation influence of increased pension funds. At the same time, this policy will allow for an increase in pension and social spending with levels that advance inflation tangiblely, and will consequently lead to an increase in the real standard of living among the most vulnerable groups in society to be fair. Once again, this policy will have a positive effect on the dynamics that determine inequalities in society. From a balance point of view. The balance remains negative, i.e.. 8.3 billion in 2022, which represents a deterioration in absolute value of about two billion compared to 2021. However, deterioration remains less than what was observed in 2020, when the balance deteriorated by 2.3 billion on an annual basis. In percentage terms, the numbers are eloquent, namely the deficit will increase by 19.6% compared to previous budget expectations in 2022. One of the most important indicators to monitor how the government spends the money on the government's social security line is the balance sheet ratio to gross domestic product. In particular, the ratio is already expected to be 5.5% in 2022 and not 4.9% as planned earlier this year. This is the worst performance of this indicator since 2014, even exceeding the crisis 2020, which is indicative of very strong growth in expenditure, although the crisis in 2022 is much weaker than in 2020 from a macroeconomic point of view. More specifically, the real gross domestic product fell by more than 4% in 2020, while it is expected to increase by 2.9% in 2022, despite inflation problems. Back in the year 2022, the new NSI deficit ratio to gross domestic product is higher than the average for the period 2014 " 2021," which has been for the entire period 4,8%. This confirms the monitoring that the government continues to increase the budget of state social security without reforming the system. This may begin to jeopardise the sustainability of the country's consolidated budget, especially if this practice does not change as soon as possible. Risks. To be fair, the deficit of state social security as a size of the gross domestic product remains at a low rate of about 5.2%, which is lower than the average of the last ten years, despite a serious increase in costs. This highlights a very positive impact on inflation, which also relieves some of the tensions on the sustainability of the general government budget, while the real purchasing power of people in the most vulnerable groups is increasing. And so much for the positive part of the risk. I want to get to the negative part of the risk. Lower than newly planned economic growth in 2022. It is likely that this lower growth will lead to lower insurance revenues, which will open higher than the planned deficit and corresponding budget transfer to state social security. In this order of thought, the implementation of the investment intentions of the internal agents and the government, as well as the international economic environment, will be key to the budget of state social security. The share of expenditure on pensions from gross domestic product has increased in recent years and is planned to remain at a high level in 2022. Before the crisis this ratio was brought to about 8.5% of GDP, and now it is expected to be around 10%. These dynamics, as well as the serious increase in pension costs in 2022, suggest that the government should review pension plans if it wants to achieve two fighting goals Do not forget the serious demographic reason, as a challenge is particularly evident in the last census we had. It should be noted that the ratio of pension costs to gross domestic product can have a long-term, multi-layered and negative impact on public finances as I have expressed to the Budget and Finance Committee. More serious growth of pensioners' incomes compared to previous years may have a pro-inflation effect, insofar as pensioners consume almost all their income for current consumption. And that does not mean at all that from "There is such a people" we will not support the increase or the overall pensions that are proposed to be updated in the update, but we again reserve the right between the first and second votes to submit a model that we think should do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u312	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Are there any lines? Honest Arabadzhiev and then Mrs. Dimitrova, if I'm not mistaken. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Karimansky, I don't know what model you're looking for, given that... I want to give you an example. An average pensioner from 2008 with an individual ratio of 1.5 has received a pension of BGN 215. Until last year, this man's pension has become BGN 430. For all these years. For the period of 12 years, the pensioner has taken 55 thousand. lv. If colleagues from GERB had applied the Swiss rule all these years, he would have taken 65 thousand. lv., or 10 thousand. lv. more. And if a modified Swiss rule was applied to 100% increase in insurance income or inflation, this pensioner would have taken 15 grand. lv. more. What we are proposing right now is the return and giving of this money that pensioners deserve. I do not agree with your words about the deficit, because this, as I said in my main statement, is: the deficit in recent years GERB reduced it to the transfer that is from the state, precisely because they did not give what should be given to pensioners according to their contribution. And what we're doing right now is this year a slightly larger increase in the IPO's budget and an increase in deficit to make up for what they have accumulated over the years. In the future, the deficit in the NSI must remain the same, as pension expenditure will increase at the rate of inflation or the growth of the insurance income, so as a percentage the deficit must remain the same and we do not see an increase in the deficit. And here you have to see it as a percentage of GDP that remains within these frameworks about 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u314	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. The second line is for Mrs. Dimitrova and the third for Hassan Ademov. The second is for Mrs. Dimitrova, Mr. Ademov, the third is for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Karimanski, with the fiscal framework of your speech, I fully agree, but I think you should explain what pension production is. Any new ones, any old pensions? What is the difference between new and old pensions when the pension is at a certain point? Could there be the same individual coefficient after you retired at different times? These are very important things so that we do not continue to say that there are new and old pensions, because pension production is at a certain point in time there are individual parameters that are included in the formula for calculating the amount of pension. When calculating the amount of the pension, regardless of which year is calculated, it is recorded that the income is multiplied by the individual coefficient and the amount of the pension is obtained by multiplying the income by the coefficient that is per year of service. Right, it's 1.5 now, it used to be completely different. What I want to say, however, is that the individual coefficient of everyone who retires is different. The moment you retire, from there on, you're in no way involved in the growth of the insurance income because you don't make insurance payments. What does that mean? I want you to explain it clearly from this tribune to make it clear to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u316	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. I just note that you were so thoughtful in your speech that you took Mrs. Dimitrova's order. Perhaps you should tell her. Here you are, Mrs. Dimitrova, you have the right to a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Gokov, Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Kariminski! First of all, my request to you is that you do not deal with the Bulgarian Socialist Party and concentrate in your own party. The other thing I would like to say is that the Bulgarian Socialist Party (Bulgarian Socialist Party) and the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) have been pursuing a consistent policy for years precisely to take the amount of pensions, namely for a fair pension of every pensioner based on average insurance income, based on work experience. And this will happen, I hope, if all of you, colleagues in the Chamber, support both the State Social Security Act and the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria from 1 October. I would just like to remind those who have forgotten that just one year ago the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a bill for reclaiming pensions, and this was in the Forty-fiveth National Assembly. And this bill was in its finals since it went to first reading. Unfortunately, it did not go to a second reading, and it was thanks to the fact that colleagues from "There is such a people" voted against. So, colleagues, it's not about how many people we are in this House, it's about how many people vote. The rest is hypocrisy. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u319	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Honourable Replicators! If the deficit remains the same, Mr. Arabadzhiev, we must change the tax system. I don't know if you're aware, I don't know who taught you the public finance economy, but there's a problem here, there's a deficit. So much for that. From Mr. Ademov's point of view, he explained what I was going to say, but he took advantage and explained it. In retirement production, of course, the individual coefficient is therefore individual because it is different. Then, at the moment, what we see as proposals, it does not guarantee justice and solidarity of the system at the moment. And finally, on the line made by BSP, I'm not going back. We all know who's been populisming the pensioners for a long time. I will not answer that, because both your law and Maya Manolova's law then, in the forty-fifth National Assembly, were absolutely populist, unprotected transitions, and you could not explain where all these revenues would be covered then. So that's what I can say. From a fair pension perspective for every pensioner, how do we respond, for example, to... I take my mother who worked for over 40 years, and how do we respond to another person who worked for 15 years, and they both start with a base of 60 levs?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u320	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. To address Mr. Georgi Georgiev. Then are recorded Ms. Emilova from BSP, Denitsa Sacheva, Mrs. Dimitrova, also from BSP, Alexander Ivanov and Mr. Lachovski. Mr. Ali, do you want a statement? Yeah. I will put you in before the second representatives of BSP and GERB. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Should pensions be increased? Of course they need to increase, given the inflation processes, given the Coalition's promises. The 10% increase in pensions from 1 July is neither fair nor social. It is not fair, because the smallest pensions will receive the slightest increase, which will therefore not reach even to cover the inflation processes in the country. That is, we increase the difference between people who will receive low incomes and these people will not be able to cover their daily expenses. That is, they will remain energy poor because Bulgaria still remains and will be the poorest country in the European Union on incomes and pensions. Why is this happening? Because at the moment, with the government's actions do not provide anything very important, they do not provide revenue to state social security. And this reform, which they call reform, is an update on pensions, an increase in pensions, which is a purely political solution. This thing will happen through subsidies from the state budget. The only way to increase revenues to state social security is by raising the minimum wage, increasing the incomes of people employed in the labour market. And this can only be done through economic measures aimed at the industries aimed at businesses and businesses. There are also methods that can increase revenues to state social security. This is raising minimum insurance income by occupation, and also increasing the maximum insurance income... extremely important thing. We are talking about increasing the ceiling of the pension, but we are not talking about increasing the maximum social security income. Why? It is also extremely important to stress that the 60 levs. a kind of supplement that has been given so far as a supplement must remain in some form. Whether this form should be by implanting in the pension system, as is currently happening, or staying as a supplement, does not matter at all. What is important is something very important to say that Bulgarian pensioners are already used to this supplement, with these incomes. They cover inflation processes to a large extent over the last two years because these people have received this supplement, and it is not expected to disappear. The fact that the Ministry has decided to implant the supplement in pensions is once again a political solution. It is also important to say that in general pensions for more than 1 million people will actually increase between 17 and 37 BGN, which is extremely insufficient. The way the Ministry deals with this increase is 10%. It's like they run a private winning company, not state social security, which is sinking. Here it must be made clear that reforms need to be undertaken - serious reforms that need to be discussed with high-level experts, discussed with our entire society and, if necessary, moved on to another pension model, another form of pension insurance. We, in spite of all the criticism we are making, will support the budget of state social security and we believe that this is absolutely necessary, given the inflation processes in the country caused by government governance. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u322	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mrs Emilova, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Gokov, Dear Members of Parliament, colleagues! It must be clear to us that each of us in this Chamber is here to contribute to stability and predictability for the creation of a new working mechanism for the support of every Bulgarian citizen, and that is, of course, absolutely impossible, without agreeing on this key law that we are currently looking at................................the Public Security Budget Act ensuring that no person will be left alone in the crisis we are currently experiencing. We are in an unprecedented global situation, tracking colossal changes at all levels, and how today we will deal with the solution of this task will depend on the lives of everyone who has voted on us to be in this room today. Many wounds have been caused in the past years. The crises the state is experiencing are the result of the long-standing policy of the government. This applies in full to the social, health and energy crisis, so BSP continues to insist on strengthening the role of the state in all sectors and strengthening its social function. Many challenges still stand before us and startle with their scale, but we as politicians must continue to think and work with care for the people of Bulgaria. More social policy, more social measures, this position BSP defended in the implementation of negotiations for forming a government, as you remember, and found realization in the signed coalition agreement where a large percentage of the proposed by BSP social proposals were approved. This also found realization in the state budget at the beginning of the year we voted. It was BSP, together with the coalition partners, that managed to protect one of Bulgaria's most social budgets. Social costs increased by more than 30% compared to 2021, or around 20 billion. lv. for social policy, we must not forget this. Social measures included: recalculation of pensions; increased support for families for raising children; raising the minimum wage; increasing unemployment benefits; increasing assistance for people with disabilities and many others. Among other things, the active social policy, especially the one to help young families, was also aimed at solving the demographic problems of Bulgaria. We protect these social measures both in this budget update and in this budget, and we build on them, of course. We must continue to defend social policy in support of Bulgarian citizens and support the fair social measures in the State Social Security Budget Act. Now is the time for social policies towards the most vulnerable and numerous part of the Bulgarian population - these are, of course, the Bulgarian pensioners we are talking about here. On their backs for a whole decade, a wrong social policy has been implemented and their order to increase pensions has never come. That is why BSP entered the government with clear social goals for raising income and supporting the most vulnerable groups in our society. It is important to note that BSP managed to protect before the coalition partners the policy for increasing and updating pensions, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, led by Minister Gokov, managed to implement it. In short, what we see in the Bill. Changes are envisaged in the parameters of the pension policy, which will be implemented in two stages: from 1 July and 1 October this year. From 1 July all pensions for work are updated by 10 per cent, the species supplements are included in the amount of the pension, the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age is increased from 370 to 467 BGN, which is increased by 26 per cent. The maximum amount for receiving one or more pensions is increased from 1500 to 2000 BGN and this increase is 33.3 percent. In relation to the projected increase in social pension for old age from 170 to 247 BGN and this increase is from 42.3 per cent. What will happen from October 1, 2022? The maximum amount of one or more pensions is increased by BGN 2000. 3400 BGN, which increases from 70 per cent, and pensions for employment should be recalculated from 1 October this year. The results of the changes in force from July 1 will contribute to the following: the average pension of a pensioner is expected to grow to BGN 666. July, which is an increase of 23.2 percent. In October 2022, the average pension of a pensioner is expected to reach BGN 718. or increase by 7,8 percent compared to July 2022 and, compared to June this year, an increase of 32.9 percent is expected. As a member of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, I feel called upon precisely in this difficult situation to stand on the side of every Bulgarian citizen, every pensioner, every mother, every entrepreneur or unemployed, on the side of every person whose life has turned as a result of the long-standing crises in the way our country has been governed. We will support this bill because, in essence, it is an expression of a meaningful and targeted left-wing policy aimed at softening the impact of the global economic crisis, and also because the degree of development of every society is judged by how it cares for the most vulnerable. This budget is a sure step towards the return of normality to the state and being beaten in people. I call on you to support it in the name of our common future. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Emilova. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. To speak, Denitsa Sacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the coalition agreement of the ruling coalition, the following is recorded in the section. 45, in the section "Truth and social policy": "In six months, an analysis of a fair update of pensions and the creation of a new mechanism that is sustainable over time shall be carried out: (a) a full analysis of the pension system and a plan for a comprehensive pension reform with a view to basing the real contribution to the system together with the social partners; (b) analysis of categories of retirement work; (c) opportunities to increase the income substitution coefficient; d) increase the burden of each year of service after the retirement age. Seven months have passed, and instead of analyzing and meaningful proposals with this draft of the State Social Security Budget Act, you are proposing political solutions that deepen the injustices of the current pension system, violate the principle of social security rights to the contribution and endanger long-term financial stability. Why did you give up on increasing the burden of each year's service, for example, after the retirement age? We know what the answer to this question is because again the Bulgarian Socialist Party has managed to twist your hands so that you forget common sense. Instead of political will to reform, we see a political stubbornness to break the system and become the NSI's accounting house. Here I would like to respond to colleague Arabadzhiev, who tried to provoke me with a legend of Lafonten. I want to answer him with another fable about the raven and the fox, and to note that it is good to listen to criticism, because the flatterer usually says nice things just to benefit from it. You know that after all, no matter what the fox said, the cheese falls into the mouth of the fox from the raven, right? So listen to the criticism, and don't flatter yourself when someone tells you things you want to hear. It is a political lie to claim that GERB-SDS parliamentary group is against raising pensions. The average pension during the last management of Boyko Borisov rose by almost 200 BGN, the minimum by 170 BGN. for four years, but we have always been responsible to both pensioners and working people who provide with their taxes the funds needed to pay pensions. We have never allowed ourselves to offer increases that have not been financially secured. The governments of Stanishev and Oresharski were doing this. They were raising costs in their last days and didn't care who paid them. Today you are proposing that we approve a government social security budget of 18 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, with only the pension 590 million. The increase in costs for 2022 is 1 billion. The Commission Five hundred thousand, with 111 million separately. 800 thousand for additional pensioners' health insurance contributions because they are paid by the state budget on the amount of pensions charged. The necessary funds will be provided, in your opinion, with a transfer from the central budget. In the Draft Law amending and supplementing the state social security budget, there is not a single underlying change in the parameters of the revenue section. I would like to remind you again of the thunderous promises about combating undeclared work and non-payment of social security. As well as everything else, they remained only in the sphere of loud political speaking and pumping muscles. Even you acknowledge that the greater collection rate today is due to inflation, but not to concrete measures, for example, with the non-payment of social security contributions. The sustainable solution to secure the necessary funds is now and again: economic growth, increase in employment and income of workers as a result of higher productivity of labour, as well as a reduction in the share of the gray economy. Unfortunately, however, you have neither the knowledge nor the will nor the time to accomplish this. Moreover, the delayed and untimely measures to overcome the crises with electricity prices, the lack of business forecasting, the pouring out of cash resources without purpose and direction, the extremely low quality of macroeconomic forecasts, as well as the conduct of a pro-inflation fiscal policy in which expenditure, instead of giving effect, contributes to inflation, all this leads to inflation spiral and low economic growth. We insist on seeing the views of the government to update the medium-term budgetary framework, as the proposed increase requires 3.7 billion. lv. For 2023 and 4.2 billion lv. in 2024, now in 2025 we are talking about 4 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, provided that there will be no update of the pensions in these years. Do you plan an increase in pensions over the next three years on this additional resource, or are you just planning to raise pre-election pensions and then just let someone else pay them, and pensioners don't have to increase pensions anymore? Such a resource will further enhance the dependence of the state social security budget on taxes and ultimately jeopardise financial stability. We call for sustainable revenue measures to be found because spending measures on the largest scale seem to have been exhausted already. In order to reduce pensions or reduce the generosity of the mass third category labour pension system, there is no talking, as well as a sharper increase in the retirement age of the main group working because the process started in 2015, and due to the COVID-19, there is no prospect that life expectancy will grow at a rapid pace to justify such actions. The opposite would mean a smooth conversion of the pension system from insurance to mainly a tax-funded system. Hardly, but perhaps in the end this is also your goal as governors. There may be an increase in social security contributions if these ambitious measures are implemented without any compensatory measures in the revenue area and the government must have the valor to acknowledge this today, here and now. Unfortunately, in this situation, if the state budget does not have the necessary funds to cover the expanding deficits, it may be necessary to seek compensatory measures in the spending area which will be extremely socially unacceptable. For example, reform of the pensions of the persons in the sectors of Defence and Security and Categorical workers. Or to be affected by an even more sensitive group of society, such as those with disabilities. This is a significant risk that you have been betting with this budget since July. For us it is a gross mistake to insert the add-on of 60 leva. in the pension as well as the additional supplements that equalised the income of pensioners for December. I pay attention to you, Members of the National Assembly, because no one is talking about this, but it is very possible to have a series of court cases and trials, because with the decisions offered to take, we will have pensioners whose pension will permanently increase by 60 BGN, others by 60 BGN. plus 1 lev for equalization of income for December, the third with 95 levs. 60 plus 35, and there will also be such pensioners who will permanently receive 115 BGN. in their pensions, without this being linked to any social contribution and without any corresponding logic why these supplements will also become pensionable. It also offers every person who retires from July 1st, automatically, without conditions to receive 60 leva. This is absurd, which will cost the state hundreds of millions. The distortion of the pension system with money against which there is no contribution on the part of the persons is political madness. Severe populism, contrary to the cocky statements of representatives of the.. We continue the Change for Courage and Reforming Capacity. This action shows the lack of both. It is important to note that the actions proposed by the government regarding pensions of the first pillar places the other two pillars of the pension system at a disadvantage. This populism will lead to the collapse of all the important supports of the pension model, because this money, which is distributed to the kapak, is not made, is not generated by investment. These solutions will demotivate people to contribute insurance and deepen the effects of the demographic problem. Without a doubt, pensioners with the lowest incomes must be helped to cope with rising inflation. There was enough time for these funds to be transformed into social aid to support the most vulnerable. All explanations of lack of capacity in the Agency for Social Assistance are completely untenable. In April 2021 the Agency paid a supplement of 120 BGN. to all pensioners who were below the poverty line, and this happened calmly, professionally, without a single concussion or political scandal. Between first and second reading the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS will make proposals that will be related to an increase in pensions, including the addition of 60 BGN, so that we can achieve better justice and be able to provide pensioners in times of crisis, in times of rising prices and inflation, but without this being at the expense of financial stability. That is why we will now vote with abstention for this budget, but between first and second reading we will submit our proposals, which we believe are much fairer and will not damage the pension system in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mr. Arabadzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u327	Thank you. Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Sacheva, if it were so easy to transfer the supplements to the Agency for Social Assistance, you would have done so when you introduced them in August 2022, in the midst of the biggest protests against the government of GERB. But you did this pre-electionally, and you didn't have the courage to remove them. And now you are proposing, in the midst of the biggest inflation crisis we have in the last 20 years, that there be a real reduction in pensioners' income. That's why I can't agree with you. The second point is that you have not made over the years proposals that have not been financially secured. Well, they couldn't be financially secured when the revenue didn't go into the state budget. What we've done in the last two years is this money goes into the budget and we can put it back where people have to get it. I give you one example because I disagree that only Borisov's last government will increase pensions by 200 BGN. The data from the NSI: in May 2017 the average pension was BGN 345 when you left the management BGN 430. With less than 100 leva. you have increased the average pension for four years and for three mandates by 180 BGN. And lastly, there will be no increase in insurance. The model is sustainable. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The deficit in the NSI system is below 50% and below these rates will remain in the coming years, as we have increased revenues in the budget, we have an increase in GDP and as a percentage of the revenues of the state budget, as a percentage of the total GDP remains sustainable over time. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u328	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Second line, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u329	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I have listened carefully to these and allow me to disagree with what you said. You're obviously not a financial professional. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] And you said that what we're proposing leads to instability. I would therefore like to use an argument from one person who I think has proved to be a good financier, and this is Germany's finance minister. You so often quote that in Germany were very stable and how even inflation in Germany was so much better than Bulgaria. We congratulate Bulgaria on the stability of state finances, which is an inspiration for us. We can also learn from the Bulgarian experience from the implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] So, Mrs. Sacheva, please check these. Thank you. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Replies from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u330	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. If someone hasn't been inspired, please come in for the coat, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Firstly, as regards the supplement and the Agency for Social Assistance, I also said in my speech: after the first elections in 2021 in April, the supplement, which was paid by BGN 120, was paid through the Agency for Social Assistance. You could use this experience to continue and upgrade yourself. GERB has not managed since May 2021. So far in one year this could have happened without any problems. As far as revenue is concerned, I continue to believe that in this budget that is being proposed to us, there is not a single line in what measures there will be for revenue for state social security in particular. So what are your measures for undeclared work, for insurance, for the gray sector, for what happens to all those people who don't pay insurance and who will be disappointed by the political decisions on pensions and will continue not to pay their social security? As for Mr. Mitev, who is always manifesting himself in the role of the PR of the Bulgarian National Bank, I would like to tell him that many foreign citizens have already spoken with different opinions, but I also listen to what is said by the Bulgarian National Bank, for example, which says that there will probably be a need to raise taxes and insurance. You can hear what Mr. Radev says. I am listening to what the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences says, which speaks of the fact that we are facing stagflation. So let us have different and diverse sources, not just those who flatter us, as I also had the opportunity to say in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Next statement, Sevim Ali. Mr. Ali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At our attention today is placed for discussion and voting Project for updating the budget of state social security for 2022. As early as my speech begins, I would like to emphasise that we of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support all proposals to increase pensions at the second reading of the Draft for amendment and supplement to the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022. This update project raises serious expectations for 2 million 35,000 Bulgarian citizens. Dear colleagues, according to official data of NSI galloping inflation in Bulgaria as of May 2022 compared to May 2021 is 15.6%, and real inflation, as you know, which refers to the small consumer basket for first-rate products, is more than 25%, and this creates a real expectation of adequate support for pensioners as the most vulnerable group in our country. I am convinced that colleagues from the ruling coalition will say that this inflation is caused by external factors. I will give the following example: the average inflation in the Eurozone, the average inflation in Europe for May, according to Eurostat data, is 8.1%. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is twice as much as in the countries of the European Union. With regard to the update of the pensions of 1 July on this project, as you know, as early as the end of February, when we adopted this budget, an update of 6.1% was set. About a month ago, we also alerted during blitzcontrol the Minister of Labour and Social Policy that this increase of 6.1% does not correspond to the real inflation processes. And we are of the opinion that even those 10%, which are laid down in this update of the state social security budget, will also not respond to the inflation processes in Bulgaria, as we also warned that inflation in advance, unfortunately, eats the incomes of pensioners and working Bulgarians in our country. We are pleased with the fact, honourable Members, that after a long proclamation of the idea, this can be confirmed and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy has taken the initiative to change the way the so-called Swiss golden rule is formed. That is confirmed by the colleagues who spoke before me. Again, for us, this increase, which is foreseen in the update of the state social security budget, this increase in pensions has been eaten up in advance by the galloping inflation in our country. Despite the support of the state social security budget by about 1 billion. 400 million. BGN, the disproportions in the pension system are not improved because the minimum pension for insurance service and age is threateningly approaching the amount of the average pension, and this, in turn, honourable Members, demotivates the people who are provided on their real income. Political decisions also violate fundamental principles of social security. Once again, as I have said at the very beginning of my speech, we from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will support all reasonable proposals to increase pensions and, of course, we will also make our own proposals so that we can support the most vulnerable groups in our country. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u334	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u335	Dear Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Dear Bulgarian citizens! I appeal to you, colleagues, is there a Member of the National Assembly in this Chamber who does not want an increase in the Bulgarian pensions of Bulgarian pensioners to receive more dignified pensions? I won't. Are there any fellow MPs who want to jeopardize the sustainability of the pension insurance system in Bulgaria? Surely there are none in this room, or at least they don't make it clear. Are there any MPs who say that by not supporting this budget separate political groups, forces are against the Bulgarian pensioners? There are such fellow MPs, unfortunately, with infantile statements on the media, which I have been observing lately. But to return to my second question, fellow Members, why I would abstain from the proposed Bill on the budget of state social security, in that there were colleagues from the ruling coalition who said they were responsible politicians earlier. Responsible politicians, colleagues must present long-term solutions and those concerning the Bulgarian budget and, in particular, the pension system, which are sustainable and has funds for them. I will remind you of what happened last week when in the Budget Committee, colleagues, the period from the introduction of the budget to its implementation and consideration in the Budget Commission was not respected. This was one thing, let's say, a minor violation of the Rules of Procedure, but the ruling majority does it and becomes a regular number. I'm afraid of that, colleagues. It was spoken by colleagues from the ruling majority about reinvesting the increase in pensions. I and in the previous budget here from this tribune said that the situation of the Bulgarian pensioners is due to the lack of adequate decisions from the majority responsible.. they take from one pocket of the pensioner 100 BGN and in the other pocket you will give them 30 BGN. through the increase in pensions. Failure to deal with inflation processes are a fact, many colleagues have already stressed, not to mention, the Bulgarian National Bank, European statistics, European partners who say: the estimated inflation in Bulgaria exceeds what is bet in the Bulgarian budget, two or three times. We're in a situation of galloping inflation. Unfortunately, Bulgarian citizens are impoverished twice as quickly as the average Europeans, which, of course, also applies to Bulgarian pensioners. We need to find a solution to compensate the Bulgarian pensioners, but it must be responsible to the social security system, the pension system, colleagues. A balance has to be found on the insurance contribution. You also have to find a balance, so it doesn't happen to be on a scale increase. Unfortunately, this is what we see in the proposed budget. And how sustainable it is, this is the main question. I will return to the Budget Committee again, Members, when the medium-term budget forecast was not presented to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. Here in the hall is the manager of the National Insurance Institute, who says the person is an expert, has a responsibility to the office he runs, that this year there is a billion and 400 million increase in the transfer from the central budget to fund pensions, next year there will be more than 3.4 billion, 2024 we are talking about 4.2 billion. lv. a further transfer from the state budget to preserve the stability of the pension fund. Colleagues, this is not sustainable. The insurance contributions will either have to be raised, but you do not show this because you do not have a medium-term budget forecast, or you have to raise other taxes, or they will be used, the most absurd European funds to pay the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners, so proposed at the moment, or colleagues, the most unstable decision I fear you will take if you remain in power, naturally, is to withdraw a loan. That is, to oblige the daughters, sons and grandchildren of the pensioners to pay them the pensions, which again many social experts have spoken before me, are not sustainable, are not subject to justice and solidarity, as the pension system says. There's an index, colleagues, tax freedom day is called. In Bulgaria, the last year has moved forward. Last year was 140 days, this year is 146 days. This is the change, colleague, all Bulgarian citizens work six days more for the state to be able to pay taxes and how to function the state. I also commented on this on the previous budget when the Bulgarian state, in the management of the Change, accepts a higher redeployment role, i.e. seizes more money than the workers, than the insured and distributes more. But what's it allocated to? Nobody knows. The nine billion leva I won't mention them, because since December no one has known 9 billion since then. lv. Where are they buried in payments? There were some questions about four billion support for the business through compensation for electricity, which the official question the energy minister answered was about a billion and 100 million. It's a three-billion hole. Where? No one can answer that. Colleagues, if you are going to accept this budget, it is very important to explain to the Bulgarian citizens, the pensioners, one by one, you must explain to the Bulgarian workers The pension insurance model cannot be retained in this form if you accept this budget. We're talking. Let's adopt a fair model. Let's adopt a sustainable model. I think the good tone in this room needs to be preserved today. But with the infantile talk that he who did not support this budget, as tabled by the Council of Ministers, is against the Bulgarian pensioners, should stop, you should give a real account that this talk does not help. It does not help the Bulgarian pensioners either. The opposition has spoken to you many times since last summer. Then the Council of Ministers now has regular ministers. The Minister of Finance, your Minister of Economy, is prime minister. We talked about compensation then. You didn't listen. Now the reality is such a double inflation rate in Bulgaria. Bulgarian citizens and pensioners are impoverished twice as quickly as Europeans. Listen to us this time, listen to common sense. All other stories are just perhaps your feeling that elections are coming and you have to boast of something. There is nothing else you will be able to boast about, unfortunately, and that, if you do, it is not unsustainable? threatening the financial system. Colleagues, look at your motives in the state social security budget. What does it say? It reduces the number of pensions set to a minimum size and increases the number of pensions the size of which is increased to a minimum............................................................................................. It does not correspond to the contribution of the pension, that is, one that is provided for 15 years, and one who is provided for 40 years of service will receive the same pension. Is that justice? Is that transparency? Where's the money coming from? I'll ask you again. Whoever gets up and answers me from this tribune may agree with him, but in his right to the doppelganger, I may disagree. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] This talk, Mr. Svilensky, please come in and tell me from the stands. However, you and I also like to have debates from this tribune. One year you can see that these stories are already being lightened up in media space. There are some media that still support you, speak, I do not know if the Bulgarian citizens have already worn out this leitmotive that you have? [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] It's just funny now. Look at colleagues, the transfer from the state budget is increasing by a billion and 400 this year, the amount is 8 billion 329 million, which is 45.6 percent of the costs of the provided transfers, i.e. the Bulgarian pensioners should be told the Bulgarian workers too, because they are also Bulgarian citizens. Next year, colleagues, if this is how the budget is adopted, you have no revenue against this expenditure that will be made. What does that mean? You are trying to buy the votes of the Bulgarian pensioners because the transfer from the state budget will be 50% based on plus 50% of what is collected by the working Bulgarian citizens to pay the pensions. How sustainable is this fifty-fifty? I don't think it's sustainable. You blame GERB yes, but then the increase in pensions was in relation to the increase in gross domestic product. This is sustainable, colleagues, the growth of the Bulgarian economy. And what are you talking about yesterday, the German finance minister is very good... A slap from the European Development Bank 1.6% growth in the economy, is this your great praise and change? Slap. Direct. You in the budget are still fantasizing about 4.5 percent growth. God willing, but I don't think so. The Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, the respected Dimitar Radev, what did he say yesterday? And don't listen to it, leave the opposition: "Don't bear any additional, permanent expenses against which there is no permanent income, as this could lead to the raising of taxes and I fear it. Abbreviation of other expenditure in the budget. What are you gonna do, guys? For kindergartens...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u336	For highways!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u337	It's the easiest thing for highways, apparently. Apparently, the holes and the crashes are increasing, unfortunately. That's the change. You're putting us in an inflation spiral. Be responsible! We have already asked for your resignation, and perhaps soon we will get it, but do not make this mistake just to buy some political time and try to wash your hands with the Bulgarian pensioners with your failures of government a year. A little bit of reality. The reality, unfortunately, is startling. It is frightening for Bulgarian pensioners and Bulgarian workers, Bulgarian children, Bulgarian health system. What other increase are we predicting? We'll talk on the big budget, colleagues, 25 cents. Are you making fun of me?! 150 million for Ferrari and a 30-year-old car. What kind of planet do you live on? [[Noise and lines.]] What pro-inflation measures? I'll see how the Greens vote to stimulate the gasoline. There are colleagues from the Green Party here in the Chamber. What are we even talking about? Colleagues, let's focus on economic growth and find a sustainable, fair solution for Bulgarian pensioners, make up for this record, colleagues, inflation since 1997. All your fairy tales............................................................................................ the change management............................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines.]] You talk to me more, you still talk to me, only your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u338	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You're ordering a line, Mr. Arabadzhiev. The second line is Professor Mihailov, and the third line is Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u339	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ivanov, I just couldn't help but give you a line because it's a mouse in your head. Go back and explain your mockery to the pensioners, where you deprived them of half a billion dollars a year in the lost indexes of your time. Tell them that and explain it to the people because they're asking me and we'll fix it from October 1st. Mish-mash, let's go back. You do not distinguish between a harmonised consumer price index and a consumer price index. You quote my average inflation in the European Union, where it is harmonised, however, give here the Bulgarian one where it is not harmonised. And that needs to be made a distinction. Let's also take into account inflation in Lithuania - 13% - Latvia - 16, Estonia - 19. We all know that inflation in Bulgaria and throughout the European Union is due to the spike in energy products. And Bulgaria feels this leap much more than other countries precisely because of the lack of diversification of energy products in Bulgaria [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] However, the Change has come and since April has not! [[(Applause and cheering:]] So in the coming months we will see a decrease in energy products, prices and inflation in Bulgaria. You're also not familiar with the Social Security Code. Should this increase now be seen as compensation for inflation? The Social Security Code is clearly written in art. 100: The next year will result in an indexing of pensions based on 100% increase in social security income or inflation, whichever is greater. So next year, pensioners will also receive an increase in pensions and the deficit is controlled. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Also, your numbers aren't right for next year...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u340	Don't engage in dialogue. Anyone can speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u341	What you are quoting as an increase is expenditure in the NSI, not the deficit in the NSI. Next year we will have at least one billion more income from insurance based on the growth of average social security income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u342	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Second line: Professor Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have always treated you with great respect for your interpretation of the problems you are expressing here, and I had no intention of making a reply to you, but I have made a very bad impression, and I will highlight my reply to you. You started your speech by keeping the good tone in the discussion. Mr. Ivanov, how did today begin? When we have such serious problems to deal with, the Budget Act is the most important law in the country and its update. There was a farce here, four hours of this farce. A lot of changes in the vote, a hearing of the Foreign Minister, were proposed only to block the Budget Act. And if we go in, I'm not an economist, but if we go into the data that my colleague before me quoted, don't talk about slaps. Slaps are eating every economy right now. And the data from the world economy shows that Germany is experiencing inflation that it hasn't had in 40 years. [[(GERB-SDS line:]] And he told you, it's not 7, it's 9.6. Please, let's be precise here said the figures Professor Gechev, a few days ago. So when you talk about these things, and I want to ask you as a person I have already known for five years in the Parliament Hall, you were also a member of the Health Commission, tell me who created conditions for such galloping price growth of energy sources in Bulgaria? What you didn't do, said the colleague, diversifying these energy sources. What you've delayed for 12 years is now causing these problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u344	God, God, have a seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u345	Mr. Nenkov, I will never argue with you from the stands. You'll practice, you like to practice here from the tribune of eloquence, go out and practice if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u346	Don't go into lines with Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u347	But please be correct about all of this. This is also said in many of the speeches.. how many years the pensions have not been revalued, so now you find from nine wells of water to say that what is being done cannot in any way solve their problems. It won't solve their problems, and they're waiting for the budget update and they won't forgive us if we don't. I therefore ask you, when you speak of a good tone, to account for the years back when you were primarily responsible for the management of the state. And if you want a good tone, if you want a constructive tone, it starts in the morning and not constantly put poles in the wheel of the National Assembly's work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u348	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Third line, Mr. Gadget. Colleagues, let's not call the court. There are procedures for everything and to speak from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u349	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, we actually have to recognise one thing of the Change yes, since April 1st stopped buying gas from Russia, already buying Russian gas, but through a Hungarian company, with a 30% increase in prices. That's the Change. As for the things you've put out, you obviously didn't listen well to the debate before that and what were the statements of the "Keep the Change" from where the money was going to come from. They said two sources of inflation and growth in the insurance income. That is, this budget and the other two budgets are not anti-inflation, they are pro-inflation and they say so. Separately, what do they say? You have to raise taxes to be able to pay this bill. What only bothers me about the numbers and the speeches is that about 1 billion. Three hundred thousand. lv. for these pensions must come from the money that is for the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, that is, we with European money pay pensions. However, this money must then go as intended under the projects applied for in the Recovery Plan. Or we get 3.4 billion extra for the following year for 2023, we get a hole of 4.8 billion, which the next finance minister on January 1st needs to find from somewhere. And here, as it became clear, there is no financial forecast and a three-year framework, and it is extremely broken by what we adopted in the February budget. So right now there's a 4.8 billion hole, and the government is telling us that it's going to be filled with tax hikes and inflation. That's the Change. Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u350	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues and colleagues replicating! Mr. Arabadzhiev, I will not say a year, because you have members of the Council of Ministers who have been in the government for one year, but for six or seven months we have heard only.......................................................................... I will, my colleagues, is a good word, but don't say hop without jumping. 25%, colleague, is not the small consumer basket what affects the poorest Bulgarian citizens and pensioners with the lowest incomes? However, you do not make a difference in social assistance, that there is another line on which they must be supported, and you raise everyone unwarranted against their contribution. That's what I'm telling you. I, again, am not against raising the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners, you do not understand me. You are continuing with an infantile talk. You are against this. It's only gonna be heard. Colleague, I'm also going to continue with your line. Well, 30%, and he, my colleague Gajev, said it, 30% for the same gas we pay. [[Applause.]] Bravo, bravo. 30%, 100 million per month, who, instead of going to the Bulgarian pensioners, go to the missionaries. Also to tell you about Bulgarian energy. This may shock you, much of the government, although there are colleagues from the ruling majority who have been ministers of energy and I respect them, they certainly understand....we are exporters of electricity, a colleague, what a shortage of electricity we are selling. Where did you get 2 billion to pay other payments? From the Bulgarian energy companies, only the state and not the private. So check out what you're talking about a little bit more seriously. Sorry, we left the nuclear power plant at Kozloduy fueled for two years, you're explaining addictions to me. Dependencies I don't know where you got them to get to the point of paying for the same gas by 30% more. It's an addiction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u352	Mr. Ivanov, after all, I understand it's a dud, but let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u353	Please don't interrupt me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u354	I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u355	I address my colleagues replicating and my speech is entirely in what my colleagues have spoken in their lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u356	Okay, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u357	Mr. Mihailov, with all due respect, I think that Bulgaria has a very large connection with Northern Macedonia and this issue is extremely important for all Bulgarian citizens, if we talk about the beginning of today's plenary day. And many things were heard, unfortunately, disturbing, from this tribune by the Foreign Minister. If you are not bothered, I am certainly bothered by the Bulgarian citizens as well. Colleague Gazhev, with most of what you've said, I can't disagree. I will add just one more... I hope to come to some reasonable solution to the situation. Thank you. [[Applause by MP Branimir Balachev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u358	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Lachowski has the floor now. Mrs. Dimitrova, there are no other records.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u359	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would also like to stress that GERB-SDS is not against raising the incomes of pensioners. On the contrary, we want them to receive income that is due to them at the moment and, of course, for which they have a social contribution. But in the debate that we are having at the moment and the ambiguity of where the funding for these pensions will come from, I have a saying that one is available according to the rug and that the state should not spend more than it can accept as revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopt a Bill that has a long-term policy, we need to know where these funds will come from. You don't say where that money comes from anyway. And what we see at the moment and perhaps you should go out and say it is that these funds will come by raising the taxes of Bulgarian citizens and because of the galloping inflation that you cannot stop. And that is very unfortunate, dear colleagues. This once again shows the incompetence and incompetence of this government. And, yes, you're talking about taps and shutting down taps. To tell you the truth, for six months we haven't seen you stop taps, but the opposite of opening new ones and making more and more credits and draining the money of the state. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u360	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. Are there any lines to Mr. Lachowski? I won't. Mrs. Dimitrova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u361	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Gokov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022 is due to the need to adopt anti-crisis measures to neutralise or reduce the negative consequences of the rise in natural gas prices, electricity, essential goods. These negative consequences put in a very difficult position one of the most sensitive groups in society, namely the elderly, who rely predominantly on their pensions, which replace their working income and provide their means of existence. For this reason, the Bill provides for changes in the parameters of the pension policy to be implemented in two stages, namely from 1 July 2022 and from 1 October 2022. The draft law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Act provides that the so-called Swiss rule should not apply in 2022, since, if applied, pensions granted by 31 December 2021 would only increase by 6,1%. Therefore, a change in the parameters of the pension system from 1 July is proposed, with pensions being increased by 10% and in the amount of pensions, in addition to entering the so-called quota, which must be suspended on 30 June and the individual amount representing the difference in income from pension in December 2021 and the income from pension in January 2022, if of course there is. This approach achieves, on the one hand, a higher growth in pensions, namely 10%, instead of 6.1%, taking into account the individual contribution of the persons and, on the other hand, no reduction of the total income of pensioners as a result of the suspension of the quota. In addition, from 1 July 2022 the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age of 370 BGN. becomes BGN 467 and the maximum amount of the pension of BGN 1500. It's 2,000 leva. The second step in updating the pensions set out in the Bill will be from 1 October 2022, with updating referring to all pensions for employment and aiming to overcome the lag of pensions that have been allocated back in time and those that have been allocated in the near future. The bill provides for an increase in the amount of pensions from 1 October 2022, which are granted at a starting date until 31 December 2021, to be calculated by multiplying the average monthly social security income for the country for which the pension is granted by the individual factor of the person. For pensions granted with a starting date until 31 December 2007, including the recalculation, the average monthly insurance income for the country for 2007 is taken into account, which is 398.17 BGN. In recalculating pensions, account shall be taken of the duration of the insurance service on 30 June 2022, as well as the burden of one year of insurance service for the corresponding proportional part of the months of insurance service at the date of pension leave. In addition, the maximum amount of pensions will be from BGN 3400. October 1st. As a result of the changes in force from 1 July 2022, the average amount of pensions is expected to reach 666 BGN and from 1 October 718 BGN. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support the Bill, update of pensions and a fair pension for each pensioner. This is a battle that BSP has been fighting for a long time. And, colleagues, before we vote, let us put our ego in the background and realise that we are the ones who will decide whether the most vulnerable group of our society, namely the Bulgarian pensioner, will overcome our crisis easily. Dear MPs, from the failure to adopt the Budget Bill on State Social Security and the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria we will lose everyone, but the most and most damage will be the Bulgarian citizens. And that they won't forgive us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u362	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Is there any line to that statement? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u363	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u364	For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u365	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like a break on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u366	Well, colleagues, there were no other speeches recorded, but the Minister would also like to speak. After the break, we'll give the minister the floor. Thirty-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u367	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, resume the sitting. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u368	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Chairman, to be able to say something about the budget. I also thank all those who spoke about the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Budget of State Social Security, yes, all of them, even those who tried to make budget-creating statements and criticisms, which for the most part I find untenable. Of course, everything that is constructive of the people who understand what this is about, I accept their speeches and everyone who has the slightest idea of retirement relations knows that the pension system is severely damaged. Yes, it is severely damaged by the wrong political decisions, not expert decisions. There's a lot I want to tell you. I do not want to prolong the time, because we have yet another budget for at least today of the Health Insurance Fund, but I know from experience that it is hardly relevant to what I will say, because a large part of the MPs, not a large part, and everyone has already formed their opinion on the budget by the parliamentary groups, have formed a common attitude towards the budget. I know a lot of everyone in this House wants to support the budget, but they will not do it because they are members of one of the parliamentary groups, which, because of political correctness, do not want to support this budget. I was impressed that everyone here declared and stated that they would support the increase in pensions, at the same time talking about a deficit in the pension system, which has always been a deficit, said all sorts of things that are difficult to tie to the desire to increase pensions. I don't know where to start, but I'll drive in a row. First, old, maybe old and new pensions. Yes, there are old and new pensions, and not because we want it or because it is expertly correct to talk about old and new pensions, but because the people in the Bulgarian society themselves, the pensioners themselves are talking about old and new pensions, and we have allowed this to happen with this model, which we have adopted and the subsequent update of pensions, which everyone in this room must admit that this update did not normally happen. Besides, we have to admit that this article. 100 of the Social Security Code, which we call a Swiss rule or a Golden Swiss rule, which establishes some supposed justice in updating pensions, well, it doesn't work with us the way it should. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u369	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u370	With us, the average insurance income is growing at a much higher and faster pace than there was until recently harmonisation, indices or as we all understand inflation. In fact, I'm setting one last example. From 2008 onwards, the increase in average income, with the exception of 2010, was always ahead of what is called inflation. This has distorted the rate of growth, and I will say again with this term: further back the pensions allocated over time and the later pensions allocated. So whether we recognise that there are no old and new pensions, it is what people feel and what they mean by old and new pensions and how they feel as justice. We come to justice in the pension system. I've heard accusations here from Mrs. Zhekova, who, by the way, is a colleague of mine, that I'm almost from the party where we've promised some justice, and we've never reached them. I will not agree in any way, because we, back in time, have wanted this justice, now again we want justice in the pension system, and justice in spite of this distortion that has occurred in recent years. For bringing some justice into the system, I just want to give you one example. After actions on pensions, after the update of July 1st and October 1st, over 200,000 pensioners will emerge from the framing of the minimum pension. I mean, for 200,000 people, it'll be a fairer system. In addition, 30,000 people will emerge from the framing of the maximum pension, that is, for those 30,000 will be a fairer system. So 230.. 250 thousand people, for whom this system will be fairer, makes the system generally more fair than it was. Many talk about putting at risk the future of the pension system, pension insurance relations. It's some kind of sedition that's been going on over the last many years, especially lately. The Bulgarian pensioner does not care where the pension money comes from, but to receive his pension. Where the pension money will come from is the government's doing. [[Heckling]] I'll tell you where the pensions are coming from. In increasing people's incomes, without increasing their size, in the sense of the percentage of increased incomes that increase people's salaries, contributions to the pension system are being paid and increased due to the increased amount of salaries themselves paid on the one hand. Along with increased revenue collection and stopping the thefts, it cannot be denied that this government has done a lot of things to lighten the incomes, to increase the collections, to stop the thefts. I'm not going to give examples so we don't have to talk about things and reopen the debate on these issues. The increase in the deficit, which happened this year, is 3 percent higher. It's not tragic or anything that hasn't happened back in time. I would like to draw attention to this without considering this as a pickle from the GERB group. Twelve years back, decisions on the pension system and its stability were decided only on the pensioner's back. In those 12 years, first, we increased the age, then we increased the required internship, then we didn't raise the pensions, we didn't update them under different prepositions. So there is no way to talk and only collect decisions in the pension system, for deficits in the pension system to be solely and solely at the expense of pensioners. [[Noise.]] And it is true that the debate on...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u371	Colleagues, let me ask you again for silence in this Chamber while the Minister speaks!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u372	This debate should start with parliament, if you will, to initiate it here for an increase in social security contributions. I am not saying that we need to increase, but we need to be aware of what our expectations are when we talk that we are not going to increase social security contributions, and at the same time we are talking that we are going to increase pensions. Because I hear everyone here that we want to increase pensions and we all ask how the pension deficit will increase in the pension fund. So, things are incompatible, and everyone who says these things should realize that this is populism. I would like to say a few other things, for example, we have not given up anything, to Mrs. Sacheva I address, all the more so, that these proposals are BSP's and, by our insistence, have entered the Coalition Agreement, including what you have mentioned about increasing the burden of each year's work insurance service after the retirement age.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u373	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u374	What time? Yours? [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u375	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u376	Because mine is limitless. [[Heckling]] There's nothing that hasn't been done in the last 20 years, 12 years, that we should do in six months, not seven. I understand being criticized by the parliamentary AGE group, who were not in the government and we do not know what they would do if they were in the government, but when we receive criticism from other parliamentary groups who have directly participated in the government, it is a little too much for me. [[Heckling]] We plan to raise pensions on every 1 July. It's written in the Social Security Code, it doesn't depend on the will of the MPs, so that's the answer. This increase in pensions, and this substantial increase, I say, is increasing the average pension by 33%. Of course, not all of us will have a lower rate of increase, for others, but the average percentage, the average pension is increased by 33% and it cannot be excluded that with this impact on the pension system, with these decisions that we should be taking today, a breath of air is given to the Bulgarian people. Mr. President reminds me that I should stick to normal when we speak from the stand, I would like to thank again everyone who will support the budget, not on my behalf, not on behalf of the other parties in the Coalition, but on behalf of the Bulgarian pensioners. As much as you understand that the pension system, the approach on which we act, is not right, you should take note because you all said that Bulgarian pensioners need this increase in pensions and you will support it. On their behalf, I thank everyone who will support the budget. I understand others with a different view, if it is sincere, not populist. By the way, I didn't hear suggestions. I just heard criticism. I would be very interested to see how proposals will be made between the first and second votes, and proposals that are meaningful, not populist, and not what happened in the Forty-sixth National Assembly, but supported proposals. If there were such suggestions, you should have spoken them in the public domain, not just criticized them. I invite you all to support state social security. Not only the budget of state social security, but to support the large budget, so that you do not mislead people that by almost supporting the budget of state social security, we will increase pensions. No, we're not gonna increase anything if we don't increase the transfer from the state budget to the state social security budget. I am obliged to warn from the stand all of you that if we do not accept the budget of the state social security, if we do not accept the state budget, the big budget, the Bulgarian pensioners of July 1st expect them to drop out of the code of 60 BGN. and an increase in pensions by 6.6%, as recorded in the budget adopted and active from 1 April 2022. That's it, everything else is populism! Who and how will support the increase in pensions will show up with the vote in a moment. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u377	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2022, No 47-202-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. The first vote of the Bill. They voted 225 MPs: 141, against 1, abstention 83. The motion is accepted. The bill was passed in the first vote. Any procedural proposals? I can't see. Moving on to the next point of the program. CHAPTER 1 1 - TOTAL Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Request permission on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the following persons: Dr. Peter Gribnev, Deputy Minister of Health; Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund and Professor Petko Salchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u379	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I put to the vote Mr. Gribnev, Mr. Pandov and Mr. Salchev to the room for consideration of this point. Vote 197 MPs: 162, against 13, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the gentlemen into the Chamber. A report from the Committee on Budget and Finance has been submitted on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u380	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-202-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022 At a meeting held on 9 June 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. The meeting was attended by Asen Vassilev Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance; Nevena Tsankova Deputy Minister of Health; Professor Dr. Petko Salchev Manager of NHIF. The bill was presented by Professor Salchev. This bill provides for an increase in health insurance revenues of a total of 111 800,0 thousand. lv. from transfers to health insurance. The increase in the income from health insurance contributions is due to the increase in the income from health insurance contributions for those who exercised their pension rights as a result of the expected increase in the size of their pensions. With art. 1, para. 2, p. 1.1.3.7.2 of the NHIF Budget Act for 2022 provides funds for six months amounting to 118 500,0 thousand. lv. for the payment of additional salaries to staff of hospital care contractors for the period of declared exceptional epidemic situation due to the epidemic spread of contagious disease under art. 61, para. 1 of the Health Act. The funds shall be paid in accordance with art. 5 of the NHIF Budget Act for 2022 on the account of a transfer from the state budget. Because the action of art. 5 of the NHIF Budget Act for 2022 is limited to the period of exceptional epidemic situation and expires after its cancellation, with effect from 1 April 2022, and the reason for paying the additional remuneration of hospital staff, as a result of which the expected savings amount to 46 245,0 thousand. lv. Therefore, under the Bill, the net increase in revenue and transfers amounts to 65 555,0 thousand. lv. The bill proposes the following redistribution of funds in the expenditure section: 1. In current expenditure, the total amount of 62 201,0 thousand. lv. for: 1.1. Staff costs 4 000,0 thousand. lv. on the establishment of a new administrative capacity in the Central Management of the NHIF and the Regional Health Insurance Fund in relation to the transition from 1 July 2022 to the National Health Insurance Fund of the process administration activities related to negotiation, award, payment, provision and control of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities. For this purpose, it is necessary to provide additional 100 stats for the NHIF system. That figure shall be formed according to the specifics and volume of the new activities involving: - the conclusion of individual contracts with persons carrying out activities for the provision and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings, facilities and medical devices for persons with disabilities; - processing of applications for the granting of assistance, fittings, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons and relevant accompanying documentation; - consideration of applications from newly formed expert committees in the RHIF and the Central Management of the NHIF; - notification to the persons concerning the applications submitted; - monitoring and control of the process of providing and repairing assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities; - processing of reporting documents for provided and repaired aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons; - payment of medical devices, auxiliary dealers providing assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities The necessary additional resources for staff costs amount to 4 000,0 thousand. lv. for a 6-month period from July to December 2022, the funds shall include remuneration for salaries and social contributions at the expense of the employer. 1.2. Maintenance of administrative activities "2 300,0 thousand" lv. for the maintenance of administrative activities related to the negotiation, award, payment, provision and control processes of assistance, fittings, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons, including: - upgrade in the information systems of the NHIF in order to automate the process of granting, reporting, monitoring and payment of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices intended for disabled persons; - carrying out repair activities to ensure accessibility of NHIF and RHIF central management buildings for disabled persons; - providing a material and technical basis to ensure that the activities described and the work with the disabled are carried out. The necessary additional means are also provided for by the end of 2022 for electronic security systems in all NHIF and 28HIF central management sites, system, expert assistance for the information and technical infrastructure of the NHIF, ensuring compliance with the recommendations given by the competent authorities to ensure the security of information and services necessary for the operation of the NHIF. The funds provide for payment of amounts due under existing contracts, as well as the implementation of new projects (building of a backup data centre for the needs of the main NHIF systems, ensuring the electronic exchange of social security information between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union through software). The additional funds under this indicator shall also guarantee the payment by the end of 2022 of the costs of enforcement claims lodged in the NHIF, as well as interest on the principals of the executive sheets received mainly in closed cases relating to the payment of the activity during the period 2016 - 2019. (supplimitting activity) of hospital care facilities. 1.3. Health insurance payments total 55 901.0 thousand. BGN of which: - health insurance payments for hospital care and payments with transfer from the central budget under art. 5 - net increase of 45 901.0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - other health insurance payments for medical care provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems, as well as for the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19 for health insured persons lv.; to provide funds for payment of claims received in 2021 by other Member States of the European Union for the treatment of Bulgarian insured persons under the rules for coordination of EU social security systems. In accordance with art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act (SCI) on the basis of the income received is set aside 3 per cent. lv. With the proposed amendments to the Bill, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 remains with a balanced budget balance. The following opinions and requests were made in the following discussion: The MPs Alexander Ivanov and Kiril Ananiev said that their parliamentary group will express its official opinion on the draft in plenary, as the 72-hour period for the introduction of the MPs to the Law has not been respected. People's representative Petar Chobanov noted that between the first and second reading of the Bill, the MPs of his parliamentary group will make their proposals so that people do not remain damaged and receive the necessary funds from this budget update. National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski noted that when adopting the budget of the NHIF for 2022 it was indicated that a feather was laid in order to reform the information system of the NHIF and the Ministry of Health, as well as to remove the clinical pathways. According to him, no reform has been started so far, nor has a discussion about the elimination of these paths been initiated. In addition, the Coalition Agreement states that an analysis should be carried out by June 2022 on how a health digital file can be inserted. In response to such findings, Professor Salchev assured the MPs that on 1 July 2022 paper fields should disappear and be only electronic, and from 1 August the paper history of the disease should disappear, so at the end of the year everything should be digitized. With regard to clinical pathways and the transition to another form of funding, he undertook to have a conversation as soon as possible about whether to switch to a model of diagnostically related groups, or to propose a mixed model. The representative of the Syndicate of the Administrative Officers of KT "Supporta" Kremena Atanasova addressed the MPs to the staff funds to become 10 million. BGN, such as the stats in the Central Management of NHIF and RHIF to carry out the activities of administration of the aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities, became 200. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Vasil Velev refrained from supporting the proposed changes with the Bill, as he said the structure of expenditure is deteriorating. He noted that the economic agents in healthcare in Bulgaria profit from this when more people are sick, and the sicker the people are, the more they earn. In Bulgaria approximately twice is the share of health prevention in the costs of NHIF and twice as much is the share of hospital care and medicines from the mid-Europeans. The representative of the Bulgarian Industrial Association Szeryo Nojarov supported the bill, but with the remark that the proposed changes do not lead to a reform of the health system. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:............. 12 MPs......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-202-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u381	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. And the Health Committee report. Milko Penev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u382	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Can I read the report in summary?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u383	I'll bet you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u384	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-202-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022 At its extraordinary meeting held on 10 June 2022, the Health Committee examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-202-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Ms. Nevena Tsankova, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, the Governor of NHIF Professor Petko Salchev, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient organizations. The draft and its reasons were presented by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF Associate Professor Vasil Pandov, who briefed the MPs on the main financial parameters laid down in the proposed amendments to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union expresses principle support for the proposed bill, stressing that the planned increase in hospital care funds will not be enough to adequately increase the wages of doctors working in hospital care. The representative of the Bulgarian dental union Dr. Valentin Pavlov informed the MPs that the bill does not provide for an increase in funds for dental aid. It was noted that between the first and second votes of the Bill these problems should be resolved so that dentists can provide timely and quality care to Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarian Association of Dentists insists on discussing the possibility for the medical service to be financed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. It was noted that once again in the budget of NHIF health insurance payments for dental aid guarantee the payment at the clinical stage of recovery activities of the chewing machine function, but not at the laboratory stage. The Association stressed that in the event that the Bill was passed without change in this part, patients would have to pay for the full manufacture of their dental dentures. The National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria considers that part of the additional revenue should be allocated to both primary outpatient medical care and specialized outpatient medical care. The payment of vaccine prophylaxis under national programmes is proposed to be equalised to that of vaccine prophylaxis covered by the National Health Insurance Fund. The written opinion of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Generical Association expresses principle support for the proposed bill, while stating that additional funds should be provided for health insurance payments for medicinal products. It is noted that the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the payment of medicines for 2022 is lower than the net costs of the NHIF in the previous year and does not take into account objective trends in the increase of the gross health insurance payments of the NHIF for medicines. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the Draft and raised questions regarding the specific amount of the supplementary funds for the individual health insurance payments, with the provision of funds for the medical care facility and the increase of the staff of the National Health Insurance Fund. Some of the MPs pointed out that increasing the financial resource in itself will not lead to a significant change in the functioning of our health insurance system, that the Bill does not implement the policies and mechanisms announced by the government for adequate distribution and spending of the funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and that there is no funding for an increase in the salaries of doctors and nurses in hospital care. Another part of the members of the Commission pointed out that, under different circumstances, crises could not be proposed a reform budget. The update of all three budgets contains a package of anti-crisis measures to help Bulgarian citizens and businesses in this difficult period. It has been noted that the health problems are many and are accumulated in the years back and it is not realistic to expect all these problems to find a solution in less than six months. However, the government is making efforts, within the framework of the financial capacity of the state, to start solving some of them. It was stressed that between the first and second votes of the Bill, the main problems should be discussed and the opportunities for their resolution for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens and those involved in the healthcare system should be sought. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft amending and supplementing the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022, No 47-202-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u385	Thank you, Mr Penev. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Docent Chakarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u386	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The DPS will not support the proposed update of the NHIF budget because it will not solve any of the serious health problems. We do not support the proposed update not because we do not want better pay for doctors, nurses and medical staff, but precisely because with the proposed update this problem will not be solved. We do not support this update not because we do not want better treatment for patients, but precisely because with the proposed update and this problem will not be solved. The DPS will not support the proposed update of the NHIF, because again, no bets are being made, I stress largely, no reforms. When we adopted the NHIF budget for this year with the unprecedented agreement by the government that it will be updated after six months, your motives, honourable Members, were for this period, that concrete health reforms will be prepared, and now a simple distribution of 65,5 million is proposed. BGN, which drop as expenses due to dropping on the grounds for payment of additional remuneration of hospital staff due to the cancellation of the declared exceptional epidemic situation due to the CIVID-19. We have had the assurance of the government that the introduction of diagnostically connected groups is being prepared instead of the current clinical pathways, and this will be valued in the update, or at least pilot diagnostically related groups. There's no such thing! The managers have requested that the update will offer a mechanism for increasing pay for doctors, nurses and medical staff in hospitals. Here is what is written in the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union on the proposed current update, I quote: The proposed update of the NHIF budget shows an increase in the funds in hospital care, which is likely to cover the wage parameters of workers in hospital care. In our view, this will not be enough and options will need to be considered in order to provide sufficient funds for the personnel crisis. I mean, there are no more mechanisms to increase pay in hospitals. It is clear to all of us that such an increase in remuneration depends on the financial situation of hospitals and such a decision is only within the authority of the management of hospitals, and with the proposed update nothing is offered and nothing will change. In this regard, I would remind you that in the part of the salaries the National Framework Treaty is appealed by the National Association of Private Hospitals in Bulgaria. Again, it is not entirely reforming the wrong structure of the budget, which we have repeatedly mentioned by the DPS and which is the exact opposite of that which is applied in all other countries of the European Union, namely in our country the most money is given for hospital care and medicines, not for the outpatient for prevention and early detection and treatment of diseases. The update fully preserves imbalances and the incorrect structure of the NHIF budget. Once again, the most funds in the update are envisaged for hospital aid.................................................................................................... BGN, as it should be noted that the amount includes the expenses of the Cashier to cover the sums earned against it by health institutions. The NHIF then refused to pay the treatment of the limit for admission of each hospital, the hospitals brought the cases and as a result the NHIF paid them not only the amount itself, but also the interest on it for the period and covered the costs and, as a result, the amounts it owed increased by 30 40% over what it had not paid years ago. Once again, there is no provision for remedies, as Bulgaria has received for years from the European Commission in each Annual Report in the health care assessment part of Bulgaria, as we of the DPS have pointed out, we have always pointed out and now we also point out that this is a flaw. Again, there are no means of payment from the NHIF of dental dentures for the elderly and fully toothless patients. It is right and correct to point out that when discussing the budget for this year, we, not only by the DPS, but also by other parliamentary groups, have pointed out this problem, but there is never a solution to helping those people who are in the most socially vulnerable part. The practice in the European Union and at certain years, not only to be given funds within 2 million, as I recall, the proposal was to grant 5 million or 6 million, so that these funds could not be found for these socially vulnerable groups of people, so that this problem could be solved. Finally, I would point out that over the past six months of the current government's governance, not only has the management of the health system not improved, but also the imbalance that there is, neither the patients are satisfied, satisfied, nor the medical staff are satisfied and satisfied. Unfortunately, this continues to be this way. Not only have no reforms been proposed, but there wasn't even a conversation about them in the ruling coalition itself, what was left for a public debate. It is obvious, given the current political situation of lack of majority, that the current government is completely exhausted and has no moral right and no arguments to propose any management decisions. That's because you missed a lot of time. I will repeat from the high tribune of the National Assembly that we in the parliamentary group of the DPS have repeatedly called for a non-partisan political consensus and finally launched the reform of health care, because there is an acute need for it, with a view to improving the functioning of the health care system, to have better treatment, to have better standards and living conditions for people who are being distributed in the health care system, this was particularly clearly seen during the Covid pandemic. We need to have political will and perhaps in the next National Assembly the 48th should start those who will be here, the theme of health reform, although they will get the framework that we are currently discussing the financial framework, and it does not imply any reforms, that is to say the status quo to one, unfortunately. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u387	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. The next one for speech is Mr. Lachezar Ivanov from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u388	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are starting the debate on an extremely important subject which we should not politicise and which we should not exploit. I am addressing all those who are listening to us right now, and I would like to remind you and the whole society that the epidemic that has befallen us has not yet completely passed. I will make a brief retrospective that in all these months of selfless battle with the Kovid epidemic, a battle for the lives of citizens, many of our colleagues have lost their lives, also nurses and pharmacists, nurses, all who were at the front, on the first line to fight this epidemic. There was no one who didn't bow down and express his gratitude to those people who 24/7, months, year after year didn't come home so that they could devote their knowledge, work and skills to saving human life. Then we all expressed our gratitude in one way or another with worship, bowed head, screaming, applause from the balconies and everything else. Yes, but there comes a time when the state and the National Health Insurance Fund, which provides the financing of health care, must really appreciate the work of all those who are in the healthcare sector. Now comes the moment when we, the MPs, must approve the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. We and in the face of the Council of Ministers must show how we will stimulate, how we will keep all those who give their lives, health, skills to care for the health of Bulgarian citizens. In this order of thinking the promises that were made on April 3rd by Lena Borislavova that the government will see to it that the remuneration of doctors, nurses, nurses, pharmacists is increased all those who fought for our lives, as if with the update of the budget we find no coverage. We from the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB submitted a Bill with which we wanted more dignity to increase the salaries of doctors, nurses and health care professionals, yes, but this did not happen. We asked for a salary of 3,000 BGN, but this was rejected. The following day was discussed the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, where from 1 August there are wages for doctors from 2000 BGN and the nurses from 1500 BGN. The budget to date is showing up... in fact, we have a growth of 111 million. 800 thousand, a growth that will come from the revenue portion of the transfer. This transfer is made on the basis of high inflation, so that money is not much at all and in no way reflect those needs that must be given to increase the different clinical pathways accordingly. I would like to ask those present here: do you think that all hospital managers with this increase in clinical pathways will be able to fulfil the commitment to increase the salaries and remuneration of hospital staff? From now on, I can tell you absolutely no. What are my arguments? They are, firstly, the funds are increased, starting with bedtime spending, increasing remuneration costs, increasing electricity costs, and here I will immediately say the costs of medicines, and especially for the oncological ones have increased almost three times. Moreover, I would now like to ring a bell and say that at the end of the year for cancer patients and, more precisely, for chemotherapy, will not reach money of 42 million. lv. Where will this money be taken? I ask this question. You, honourable rulers, with these promises of increasing the remuneration of doctors put in an extremely difficult situation all managers, hospital directors. What can we expect from these colleagues? Except for the hospitals that are under art. 5. You all know who hospitals are under art. 5 who are interested in the topic of health care. Dear gentlemen, we will actually lead hospitals to bankruptcy, to real bankruptcy, as we know that each of the hospitals has current costs, cover both, but in the given situation I simply do not see a way in which these directors will be able to get out of the situation and keep at the same time the promised increase in remuneration. One more very important thing I want to share with you: these are the new functions that enter the NHIF, namely that according to the changes we are making, 100 new experts will have to be appointed to actually provide assistance to people with disabilities. Whether these, for example, 100 stats will be enough, I think the National Health Fund has expressed their concerns about the inability of these 100 people to be able to carry out this responsible activity. I can speak much more on this subject, but I will again address you... whether the commitments made by your political party and your coalition will respond to everything that you promised and everything that society expects to do as a real wage for the work that everyone in the medical institutions is doing. Me and my parliamentary group will not support the budget update for the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u389	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. The word is Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u390	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In front of us is the update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund - around 66 million total. lv. are provided for in this update. By reviewing the legislative proposal and the reports from the two committees, I expected to see at least more money for treatment clearly and specifically saying that this 66 million will at least be given for treatment. In fact, I was hoping, so heretic, they'd be all over it. 1.1.4.4., where there are 37 million for the treatment of children, expensive treatment and operations of children, on which point another February on behalf of our parliamentary group I proposed an increase of 14 million, you did not accept it. Now I expected some of this money to go there because payments with DMS are still valid, yet the state has not done anything to cover this treatment and when we see respectively the Health Fund report possibly for 2021. I hope this Parliament brings it out so that we can see this report at any time, I am worried that we will read again in it that about 60 procedures, as in the 2020 Report. 60 application procedures for expensive treatment for children have been terminated somewhere in the middle. Guess why?! In this update in these 66 million. BGN, unfortunately, didn't see that thing. I have seen the following, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, first of all 4 million, assigned to the appointment of 100 additional administration of the Health Insurance Fund to process applications. Dear ruling coalition, you have a minister of e-government, you have a minister of effective governance, you have a minister of growth and innovation, you have a health minister who apparently works so effectively that I don't even notice how it works, I don't even notice it in this room. If you can see, we don't have the Minister of Health right now. So these three or four ministers were expected to make it possible to optimize the process with these applications of disabled people because we live in the 21st century, and instead you increase the administration by 100 people and say that you are different from the previous ones. [[Reply from DPS: "This is a reform. "]] It's a perfect reform, I see. We increase the administrative apparatus, of course, and people will be primarily appointed to the Central Management of the Health Insurance Fund because Sofia is Bulgaria for the ruling coalition at the moment. So that's where they'll go, $4 million will sink. lv. for the administration's salaries, instead of for treatment. I saw $2 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, for which it is written in the reasons that will serve to improve the access of people with disabilities in the building of the Central Management of the Health Insurance Fund and of the Regional Health Insurance Fund. Okay, we have $4 million to pay, but here I see we have $2 million. And 300,000. lv. For theft, because with these repairs, we'll have a nice $2 million. And 300,000. lv. And right now I'm even sorry that I don't have a firm like this to complete these repairs. If we vote at second reading this bill, I'd wake up a millionaire. Next, and the biggest problem that I see in the update of this budget is with nearly 46 million. BGN provided in the reasons laconic for hospital care. Colleagues, I'm going to ask someone who knows more about spending money on hospital aid from the ruling coalition, who has proposed this update, to explain to me where this 45 million will go. lv. For hospital care. It is obvious that there is a desire to balance the payment of hospital care compared to hospital treatment, but so written in general and unspecific where the 45 million will go. lv. For me, the doubt arose that this money would do the following, and I hope I am not a bad prophet. First of all, there will be a very expensive clinical trails, not that it hasn't happened before, will buy extremely expensive medical equipment at high prices and will be purchased, again at higher prices, medicines. That's how the $45 million will be spent. Lev, I'm so afraid. Because it's not important to just pay an extra 45 million. BGN, in order to obtain a balance between hospital treatment and hospital care, it is necessary when we will spend such a huge public resource, to record exactly where this money will go and how it will be spent. Because, an honourable ruling coalition, if you remember, the only reform you made in the 2022 budget was to increase by 700 million. lv. the budget of the Health Insurance Fund compared to last year something that GERB did compared to the budget for 2020, and they with 700 million. BGN, rudely, increased the budget. And where's the reform, what's the difference? How do we spend the taxpayer's money? At the same time, the reserve you provided for after the update will increase to about 180 million. lv. At the end of the year, when we have such a huge reserve, and when there are people who can't get adequate treatment, what do we say? Is the state subsidy well spent for hospital treatment and hospital treatment? Of course it won't be. At the same time, we give a wider financial resource to hospitals, which Prime Minister Kiril Petkov himself said in a conversation: "It does not bother me that they are taking a little medical staff, it worries me that they are taking huge salaries the directors of hospitals. "We, if we continue to pour some huge amounts of money without describing why we spend it and where this 45 million will go. leva, how do we counteract this thing? And last but not least, I disagree with the estimated 10 million. lv. for the purchase and vaccination against COVID-19. It is high time for such huge amounts to be targeted for more important needs, namely for the treatment of people who need this thing. Instead of giving money to increase the state by 100 units and instead of giving money for vaccinations, not for the purchase of vaccines, but for the vaccination activity against COVID-19, I believe that this total is 14 million. lv. could be used to treat severely ill children. Exactly 14 million. lv. I suggested that at the beginning of the year this budget be increased on this feather. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not support the update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, and I hope between first and second reading not only us but also of the other parliamentary groups to make at least one proposal for a more appropriate spending of the total resource provided for in the 66 million update. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u391	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. About the line "Professor Mihailov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues from the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health! My fellow Member, I understand your experience began with a charj, your conviction to wake up a millionaire. It is good that you share it with the Chamber, but it is better to wake up an expert and not throw butaforn untruths into such a really serious debate. And I will start in order in your arguments to understand that your speech is deeply unprofessional, unargumented. When you go out to talk about issues in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, you do not have an expert in your health care group, look for them, contact the NHIF, they will explain some things to you. The first question, in terms of spending on 100 staff. I want to tell you that this transfer from the Ministry of Social Services to NHIF was decided by the government of GERB. Isn't that right, Mr. Ananiev, on the last working day of the government of GERB As the Ministry of Social Services, if you're hearing me now, because I'm addressing you to clarify the matter, and you're talking to your leader, there are 28 divisions, and the Ministry of Social Services has 128, which is creating a serious tension in the transfer of this kind of services to an extremely vulnerable... Here is absolutely right both the Supervisory Board and the Cashier's leadership when they proposed this staff. Even if there is an opportunity for Professor Salchev to address himself, he once shared here a few days ago, to my amazement that not 100, but what about 214 you proposed, Professor Salchev? And this has reason, because this is an extremely difficult activity with people who are punished by fate and deserve both attention and care by the Bulgarian society. So much for the 100 people and the 4 million. With regard to access to... [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] I'll finish within reason, Professor Baltov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u393	Either way, the time of the group...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u394	Colleagues, we're talking about a serious discussion, let's not be formalists. I will not allow myself to interrupt you as a colleague. When we talk about the 2,300 thousand, it is not at all correct to talk about the fact that almost they will be stolen. This is about facilitating access to units that will be responsible for contact with these patients. And on the most important issue that you put so emotionally. We are carefully monitoring the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in providing children who need treatment outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and we have no comments in the last few years, when this has already moved on to the Casa, to the procedures that... I have personally talked to Salchev about individual patients, looking for a reference for them, and I see that the Cassata is making great efforts to move and move on time. And the fact that some of them do not receive this opportunity is related to the fact that there are real opportunities for treatment in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. That's what I tried to explain to you last time, but clearly in your mind, it can't reach.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u395	Professor Mikhailov, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u396	The last question, the most important, 46 million for hospital care. These funds are separated because of the underappreciation of some of the clinical pathways, because of the desire to increase them and by allowing for an increase in remuneration, and they are nothing compared to.. if you look at the entire hospital aid budget, which is within more than 1 billion. And a half leva. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I will only tell you that the measures taken with regard to the NHIF budget are strictly anti-crisis. They are not strategic and aim to satisfy the most daily needs of the budget that we are carrying out 2022. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u397	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. I've given you a little more time, anyway, since the time of the group. I think that this is not such a problem and I will give you five minutes if necessary. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Don't get so formal. Nothing happened that could hurt the debate. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would be delighted if you would apply the same arsin to our...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u399	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u400	Thank you for that, in advance. Professor Mikhailov, I'll start backwards. When someone doesn't tell me in black and white where $45 million will go. lv. and he gives me free interpretations that some anti-crisis measures have to be made with the appointment of 100 people, I can't help but suggest that we assign 10,000 and 100 to make these anti-crisis measures even more effective when the appointment of an additional 100 people is an anti-crisis measure. Because here you speculate with people with diseases and a hard-to-reach environment, to tell you that this 4 million. lv. they're not going to go for their treatment, to buy their materials, and they're going to go for the administration of this thing. And I asked for a reason, having three or four ministers involved in this thing, wouldn't you make this process easier? We live in the 21st century, there is the Internet, so that these applications are submitted over the Internet and get approval over the Internet, and not to process them another 100 people, I do not know, in 28 districts or in the central management of the Health Insurance Fund. Once again, people will be assigned to the central management of the Health Insurance Fund. Because you mentioned that there are professionals here and that we should consult them. I have not heard professionals speaking, including the adoption of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. In fact, only the ministers speak here from the executive power. We do not know why we vote in the first place when they do not speak on the relevant issues. Then how do we, the MPs, because we cannot understand everything, make a good assessment of where our money will go? But, of course, I'm going to be shocked that when it's not clearly described where a 45 million will go. lv. and what will be spent, it is normal for us to think that this money will be used illegally and that there is such an opportunity. So between first and second readings we will really make Professor Mihailov proposals where exactly this 45 million will go. BGN, so that when we discuss the draft budget again at the second vote, we can in the specific, as you say, be competent and familiar with the matter, and now specifically discuss where this 45 million will go. lv. And hopefully there are no promises somewhere where to make that money, because then it will get a little embarrassing if they really go as intended to treat sick people in hospital care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u401	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Subev has the floor. I'm following the preliminary list, first, then, if there are others who want to make a statement, make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u402	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Perhaps I will continue where the previous fellow Member of AGE ended because he asked: where are the ministers for which we should discuss this budget update today? Because this budget update, in my opinion, does not give any clarity as to what happened to these major structural changes that the governing majority had to make in view of the February month budget. I do not see in this budget update a measure that is structural reform. We'll spend money on new jobs, spend money on everything. Where did they go under art. 5 of the Health Insurance Fund Budget Act 46 million? Kovid patients continue to be infected with a horse, in intensive wards they continue to ventilate and look at sick people. I don't have that kind of money. Perhaps we should get an answer to the 46 million in which feather will now go in this update....................... whether in healthcare, whether in the general budget. And if I had to do a slight analysis of the motives, because so far, colleagues have exposed a really large part of their own. In the 100th chapter, how did we determine 4 million? What happens with the alimony of administration, with this promised electronic file. There's another money sinking, there's no action, there's no e-direction to gynecologists. If this is all reform, I will not support this update law. Therefore, I ask that all of us of sound mind not to succumb to this update, not to make a reform that is a blurring of the situation. Do not support this update. Maybe we need another law, other rules, to get really this structural reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u403	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Are there any lines? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u404	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, dear Dr. Subev, it is a pity that when we spoke in the Health Commission, these questions somehow did not find their answer. It is interesting that a person like you does not know that the National Health Insurance Fund is not a state institution, it is a public institution and it is managed by a supervisory board, the chairman of which is in the Chamber, and by a governor who is also in the Chamber. The Minister of Health has little in common with the National Health Insurance Fund as regards its budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u405	He's importing to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u406	The Council of Ministers is importing, but the two people in charge of this budget are here in the Chamber and I appeal to either Dr. Subev or the chairman to invite colleagues to explain what you asked for. With regard to electronic control and with regard to the file. I can show you my file that works on my phone, if you want in front of everyone else, I'll show it to you. So it is already functioning and will not sink money there, it is already active, it just remains to be made widely available to everyone else. And what you were talking about were directions for a gynecologist, which were the result of the non-functioning of a private sub-contractor and not of the National Health Information System or the National Health Insurance Fund. So let's be honest about what happened, not just throwing speeches to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u407	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Wait till I ask if there's a second line. I don't see a second line. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u408	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Colleague Simidchiev, this law we are looking at has been tabled by the Council of Ministers. It is only right for the importers to stand before us and to give clarity to this budget will be anti-crisis, this budget will be for structural reform or this budget will be a health care administrator and will listen to our debate. These were the questions asked me and the ministers who are responsible for this budget. It's about electronic control. Yes, it is good that you have your file on your phone, but the normal citizen, in the villages that go and wait hours for the offices to first appear to a personal doctor, then to go to a specialist, does not function this system at the moment, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u409	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Just to say that the Minister of Health today is at the Council of Ministers in Luxembourg. Let's hope he joins the debate on second reading. Mr. Lachowski, you will have to wait, because there is a request for a declaration from a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Gurov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! A new coalition wants to remove the President of the National Assembly Mr. Nikola Minchev. The impossible coalition GERB, DPS, is not interested in Bulgarian citizens, is not interested in indexing pensions, support for young families, increase in wages in the sectors where reforms are launched, is not interested in supporting business in the crisis. It will not reform KKCONPI, it will not accept the necessary legislative changes, which are a condition for the allocation of funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, it will not do anything. It is important for her not to fight corruption, to keep her chief prosecutor in order to continue draining state money. The leaders of the "There is such a people" took off the masks after they did not receive the billions that were planned for the continuing drain of the API. Just a few facts from a recent press conference at the Ministry of Finance: 5 meters and 60 centimeters tube for 1 million. lv.; 1 km of first-class road from the Republican road network is built in one area for 100 thousand. BGN and another for nearly 2 million. lv. Without the right to municipal renovation API awards one in Pazardzhik, the price is 3 million. lv. About a mile away. Maybe this is how Borisov repays his obedient mayors? Captain Andreevo, the busiest external border in the European Union. In the last 10 years, Captain Andreevo's mafia has owned the border. At least 200 million. lv. missed budget benefits. Millions of tons of unverified production, poor and harmful food imported to the Bulgarian market. And here we're not even talking about the dark side of this business with doubts about huge billion-dollar abuse. Here, the services need to get to the bottom of what's going on, but the names that are mentioned are talking about something much scarier. After exposing the drain of API and Captain Andreevo's Mafia scheme decided to break everything. Sometimes the mistake is true. You remember the words of a GERB MP: Do not touch organised crime, there will be chaos. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] If you ask us now, would we do it again? The answer will be a definite yes. Especially strong are the words of Minister Radostin Vassilev: For money, for posts, for President of the National Assembly, for head of BNB. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Dear colleagues, there is such a people, do not betray your constituents. You said you'd fight the mob. Now the eyes are on you. The Mafia is back in politics, we are at war with the Mafia and we will continue it here on the street, in elections where necessary. Thank you. [[(Voices: "Bravo! ") We are continuing the Change. The People's Representatives from "Keep On Changing" are working. Violent and lengthy applause by the "Democratic Bulgaria" and the "BSP" for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u411	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Colleagues, by procedure or declaration, Mr. Balabanov? Here you go. Procedure in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today is obviously such a day that whoever presides from the highest tribune in this building must have procedures in the manner of conduct. I warned your colleague Mr. Minchev about Teodora Genchovska's hearing, he did not listen to our procedures and therefore we will have an interesting item on the agenda tomorrow morning, a logical item on the agenda. Otherwise, my procedure in the way of conducting you is, please really, stop giving people the opportunity to make suggestions from this tribune, as you see how interesting it is today in the public space in the most representative building in Bulgaria. The truth has become clear, the traitors have become clear who they are and through crisis PR is currently trying to make a suggestion, on the one hand, through the Council of Ministers, on the second hand, through the chairman of a parliamentary group, which was first...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u413	Mr. Balabanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u414	...it was first placed in the uncomfortable situation of a fire to run for a boss position only and only to master it, the second The money, Mr. Vigenin, because there are facts and we have to share these facts, this money, which all day commented on the colleagues, were on a proposal from Kiril Petkov to happen and the National Assembly voted on them. Those are the facts! Stop your suggestion, because the truth has come out. Mr. Gurov, it doesn't suit you to the education you've graduated...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u415	Mr. Balabanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u416	...and your career in a golf club to behave like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u417	I didn't interrupt you because to assume that this was something of a declaration from the parliamentary group, because there was no way this procedure could have been for me. Mr. Bikov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u418	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You started your reign as inexperienced people. Unfortunately, six months later you continue to be in this position of inexperienced people. I, as someone with a little more experience than you, not with much, with little, will tell you that a government falls only, it can never be broken down by the opposition, by the mafia and by anyone else, it always falls alone. And when our governments fell, we knew that and we always sought the meaning of why we fell, where we went wrong, why we didn't do something different. I'm saying that you haven't gained experience for these six months, because on the threshold of the end of this government and of this government, you don't understand why it's going away. It's gone because of you. Usually, in one management, the greatest responsibility for it lies with the first political force, it is the bearing structure, it is the structure that sets out the direction that the majority of the activities are operationally carrying out. We're in Parliament, and you haven't put in a single law in seven months. This is the weakest legislative activity of the Bulgarian Parliament since 1990. And this is not because of the opposition, it is because the ministers in this government were dealing with everything else, only not with solving the real problems of the Bulgarians. That's the problem. You made up all kinds of fictions and fixations so that you could justify yourself, not to us and not to people, but to yourself, that you did nothing. That's where the word corruption came from and all the other abstract crap we've been listening to for seven months of this tribune. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo! (GERB-SDS.)]] It is not corruption in your government. The biggest problem is you don't even know what this is about. You drove the country to a dead end. You had one major task of December, the most important task of solving the political crisis. To this day, you have justified this diverse coalition with the political crisis that you should have solved. Well, I'll tell you seven months later: you haven't decided anything! We're in a political chaos right now... [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "Yes, yes!"]] ...because of you the country is divided and we are on the verge of early parliamentary elections. The responsibility for this is not the opposition, it belongs to the government and I repeat: to the first political force. And there's no excuse for that. It was all up to you. You have Prime Minister, Ministers, VIP Super Prime Minister and all opportunities to restore political dialogue in the country, to target meaningful goals before the Bulgarian society and together to respond and respond to the challenges facing the country. What did you do in seven months? You destroyed even more opportunities for political dialogue? You fought with the president you supported until eight months ago. Not with us, leave us alone! With those who made you, you had a fight! And that's why the day after tomorrow or the day after tomorrow you lose the vote of no confidence. You united people who had no idea before that to ever unite. You have united them against you because you have no purpose, and you do not know where you come from or where you are going. That's why you're sitting still! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And you will go! This will not solve the problems of your going, only it will be a sign that in the last year Bulgaria has lost political time, valuable political time and this political time has a price. It will be paid by all Bulgarian citizens. And here the work of the responsible political forces is to end this experiment because this startup, colleagues, went bankrupt, it's failed, and now your superiors can grab their suitcases and go and cheat someone else. [[Relations from.. Continue Change..........................................]] [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, lines from]] Because no one believes them here anymore. No one believes them, not even those who at first agreed to rule with you. You have lost confidence not only in society! You guys don't trust each other on the inside. Never in the last 30 years, when there was a revolution in 1990, because this, at the moment, was no revolution.. You imagined at one time that there was a revolution. The revolution is something else entirely. [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "Why didn't you come out to the square to see?"]] But in times of revolution, such a vacanalia and such a disgrace that has happened for you in the last 3 days, there has not been one. [[Reply from.. Continue Change......................................................................................................]] And no, Mr. Radostin Vassilev, colleagues, do not fight corruption, you know! And we all know it very well here! [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo! and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.)]] On the contrary, at the moment in parliament, in the corridors, in the quarters, in the apartments, in the laboratories, political corruption is being played. This is happening at the moment sbuy MPs per kilogram and sell consciences. [[Applause and banging on GERB-SDS banks]] This is happening right now. No corruption can you fight while corrupting people, and the most severe form of corruption is political corruption that distorts the entire trajectory of the nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u419	Where are the billions? Where? Where are the billions?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u420	You, Mr. Ananiev, will never understand the function of political life. You're already in several parliaments, and I don't want to take the time to educate you right now. You are the most experienced person in this group and, by the way, you have a direct responsibility because your colleagues could have introduced them a little bit into what they should do. You've never understood in the last seven months, and you won't understand that a government needs peace. They need to calm the situation. Seven months, you're pushing even more pressure. Now you understand some of you, not all of you, obviously not all, but some, few, understand that this government and this majority are over. And I keep telling you to hear it one more time: it ends because of you. No protest, no mob, no opposition can bring down the government. It can do it itself, it can do it different parts of it. You built a bad construction without a clear agreement. I remember as yesterday's mall, which promised all sorts of wonders "1 per cent for culture," and Assen Vassilev said: "Yes, yes, yes, yes, of course! "Such 1% I give it as an example, not that this is the most important! But it was all a lie, a balloon that burst. It's a political pyramid. Keep in mind that you are participants in this political pyramid to know it all, who in a few days will support this government. You have yet to pay the price for this, because always a price is paid, especially when a price is paid. We know best how to pay this price. We have paid it several times. From now on, if you have and you have any sense left, you need to work out an exit strategy that will cause minimal damage to the country, because the way you are acting now does not show such behaviour. The fact that you have not yet understood that you are leaving makes you do even more damage to the trust and authority of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. The Bulgarian political system is highly shaken by you, and that is why we have tabled a vote of mistrust to stop this disgrace that you have organised for a week now. [[(Reply from.. Continue Change... Return the ……]] And finally start thinking about Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u421	Thank you. Affidavit, Mr. Yordanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Political declarations! Political declarations suppose you have no worries, we can always do, no problem. The political declaration of "There is such a people" will contain 90% words of Slavi Trifonov, and in a moment I will allow myself to add. Okay. Political declaration: Happy Vidov Day! Today, Happy Vidov Day! Today there was a meeting and there is still a meeting of the National Assembly on the topic of Northern Macedonia, the naked truth shined on it. The truth is that the Prime Minister of Bulgaria has actively participated in talks with foreign diplomats with a single goal: national betrayal. Betrayal against Bulgaria and all Bulgarians. He promised that we would raise the veto over the Republic of Northern Macedonia to start negotiations on entry into the European Union by the end of the presidency of France in June. Moreover, without Northern Macedonia having met the Bulgarian conditions. Moreover, through its parallel foreign minister Vesela Cherneva a framework position has been drawn up in a project to edit the Bulgarian national position. In this disgraceful version Kiril Petkov and Vessela Cherneva provided concessions regarding the rights of Bulgarians in northern Macedonia, as well as concessions in the Bulgarian position for the so-called Macedonian language. Today it became clear why there is such a people....leave the Coalition and withdraw its ministers. [[(Replies from]] Talk again about BNB, Mr. MRB, Captain Andreevo and any lies you might invent.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u423	Mr. Yordanov, just a second!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u424	This is the truth: you cannot participate in a government in which there is national betrayal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u425	Just to remind you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u426	I'm a little off topic, I'll finish up, calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u427	Yeah, no, not to finish, just to say that the declaration can't be on agenda topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u428	Okay, I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u429	So move on to something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u430	Okay, I'm going over something else. Since the Prime Minister is a national traitor who is your leader, it is quite normal for your entire parliamentary group to be one of such traitors from GERB, Nastimir, I do not know what it is, what it is, and it is normal to have five new traitors at the moment. [[Laughter]] So we're continuing the Change. Dear PPs, you mean, we're picking up Traitors. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u431	Mr. Yordanov, I will not make an official note, but this is not the way to talk about fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u432	He hasn't said a word.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u433	He didn't say names, but implicitly, I think it's understood that it shouldn't be spoken like that. I have to make this note. [[Reply by National Representative Tosko Yordanov: "If you say, of course, I can specify. "]] We're moving on to the discussion now. You in what procedure? Here you go in the manner of conduct, but be in the manner of conduct though. When you compromise with someone, then the others want Mr. Balabanov, now let's see what you say, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u434	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. Please, when MPs make insinuations about others, precisely about the Prime Minister of the State, about fellow MPs and accuse them of this high tribune of Bulgarian parliamentaryism in betrayal, remind them that betrayal is different. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] It is betrayal when state foundations are deliberately shaken in a period of crisis, in a period of war, in a period when Bulgarian society must be united and when comprehensive support for the government's efforts is needed, whether in foreign policy or in domestic politics. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] So let the Bulgarian people know who the traitors are. I am sure that deep down in our heart, because we from PP love the Bulgarian people, that is why we are here. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] Let's make this clear to everyone. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u435	Thank you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u436	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u437	I'll bear in mind what you said. Now, I think we can get back to the discussion. Mr. Lachowski, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u438	Mr. Chairman, Colleagues! Let's get back to the debate. Whoever has to go will go. Let's not forget that there is no visa regime for Canada thanks to Borisov, so whoever has to go that way will leave. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] And now for the debate. I will start a little bit further, yet we look at the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and at the moment when the infection was, so to say, quite firmly entered the country and then the government of Mr. Borisov and the Minister of Health did their best to secure the funds and give them to the Bulgarian medics. These funds were given for two years. Then, in a series of elections, you came, colleagues from "We continue the Change" with the slogans that you will do absolutely everything for the Bulgarian medics, you will make sure that they live normally, stay in Bulgaria and take the rewards they deserve. And to tell you the truth, you're not doing well. The idea was to put the funds to raise wages through the National Health Insurance Fund, with all the medical institutions currently receiving 25% increase in clinical pathways, but we missed the inflation that is close to these percentages, and we, in fact, with this increase that we made, covered inflation, but did not cover the losses that hospitals accumulated from December to April. Dear colleagues, to tell you that under Ordinance No 5 for the funds, which are 600 BGN, 360 BGN. and 120 BGN, which are currently being paid to the medical institutions, have not yet been paid in April. If this can be called an update, believe me, I don't think it's an update. This has nothing to do with the update. Here I see absolutely no prospect of development and investment in healthcare. Therefore, colleagues, we from the Political Party GERB will vote against this fictional update. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering:) Bravo! Bravo! (GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u439	Thank you, Mr. Lachowski. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Tonev has the floor now. And the last person to be recorded is Mr. Weyselov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u440	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Minister, Chairman of the Supervision of the NHIF, Chairman of the NHIF, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As we have learned from the Budget Commission Report, 111 million for health insurance income from health insurance transfers, with a net increase in transfer revenue of 65 million. There were a lot of opinions here. Some are that it is insufficient money, others that will not be spent transparently, many of us do not understand, but some of us may catch when it is spoken politically and what are the objectives, so I guess your messages will be correctly understood. It was commented on the costs of administration in the Health Insurance Fund and I think Mr. Petrov made that statement. Yes, I'm addressing you and you've made a note of how digitally documents can be processed. I don't want to imagine us digitally explaining to one person how to put on his prosthesis, and he needs to navigate a video or some other electronic device to understand something that a person in an office in a quiet environment can explain to him and point him even if needed to see a doctor. This is a personal amendment to you. For these new stats, we are about to find out how effective they are, how far they will be and whether they will not have to be increased in the next budget, which will start to be discussed in just a few months. For the first time in crisis times, we went out and said, we pointed out many of the problems that have been accumulated, some of which have been more than 10 years, this figure that we have tried during these six months to explain how some problems have occurred. But the truth is that every system and especially the complex ones, such as health systems, for 7, 8, 9 years, reach a level where, on the principle of sedentary, the processes in them are dying and they need reform. Those working in the health system know that a reform in the last 22 years in Bulgaria has not been done and very well know why for interest. These interests have made us debtors to the most sensitive part of Bulgarian society and these are Bulgarian patients. Reform in the Bulgarian health system is absolutely necessary, regardless of who will do it. The question is that this reform should be adequate at the time, at the needs, of technology and new opportunities which, unfortunately for many people who love the status quo, unfortunately for these people, we have been in the European Union for 15 years and we can easily compare the results of our health system and our patients with some systems that do not have our shortcomings. This, in the era of social networks and digital technologies, cannot go any further and we can explain that it is normal to have twice as many hospitalizations above the European average, how we can deal with twice as much gross domestic product as the average for Europe and many other things that have been explained in these six months before words, in front of patients and in front of televisions. Bulgarian healthcare will never be the same, and that is why we from "We continue the Change" as well as our coalition partners have contributed to this and I am convinced that this contribution in the next few months will only be stressed. These long accumulated problems in the years I am talking about have led to a total, professional medical and nurse depopulation, especially expressed in smaller settlements, where the problem besides access to help is also limited access to quality and modern assistance. We are seeing trends that cannot be explained by crises, as was the quantum crisis, which only showed the problems for which we have been silent for a long time. Administrations to our health workers who helped us stay alive during the Kovid crisis, and the sacrifices we gave and who they gave could have been much more. All figures and unfavorable trends for the Bulgarian health system did not stop the politicians in this hall to speak, to read from social networks, from one-day websites and to share false news from this very tribune. As I've talked to some of them in private conversations, history will give us an appreciation for all of us, but sometimes even historians think that they won't catch up with them. Some quality policies of change have started from us, which refers to the real introduction of digitalization in Bulgarian healthcare. Yeah, a guy got a gynecologist's direction, but how do you know this never happened in the paper age? [[Noise and lines.]] You can't know because the paper stays in a drawer and no one knows about it, while digitization even at this initial stage will show all the errors of the system, Dr. Subev, and better to know the mistakes and who went wrong to a gynecologist than not knowing what is happening in a whole system. Some of these changes did not start with us, but there was such a correct checkpoint during the Commission's viewing, and we recognise the efforts of all the colleagues who worked before us. Unfortunately, we remain with a healthy doubt that these efforts have been put into place much at the beginning of the reform, but somehow something has not been enough to complete this reform. We remain in doubt that very often this was not the shortage of resources or support, but there were other interests. We believe that only quality changes can reverse these negative trends in our healthcare. We believe that the time has come for quality changes. The last 10 years or more have convinced us that the mechanical pouring of numbers, although known or unknown, where these numbers were going, did not lead to what has been achieved in other countries. These qualitative changes include a new attitude towards workers in the health sector. Here again I refer to Mr. Petrov, who is not familiar with how a medical establishment operates. He is not aware that every lev that is poured into a hospital can run out in many different directions and only one of them is the salary of the staff. The current health system in its unreformed form has resulted in the accumulation of 700 million unsecured debts to medical institutions and every single director, even in his best quality, would be tempted, first, to pay off these debts and leave the payment to his staff somewhere forward in time. For the first time since we are continuing Changing, we have proposed perhaps not the best option, but an option how the money in February basically goes to our health workers precisely because because of the impact of the crisis they deserved this thing. At the moment, we are still working through a wage regulation, through collective agreements, through mediation and a very large part of the money earmarked for health in 2022 to go right to health workers. And if I have to go into detail, by August, the directors of hospitals are not required to pay these salaries. This obligation will fall on them after their decision and will weigh them for three months until the discussions on the National Framework Treaty for 2023 begin. But many politicians have decided to use these three months to explain how in three months we can bankrupt establishments that haven't gone bankrupt in 13 years, piling up debts, as I said, 700 million. lv. No matter how much money we pour, I will not say that it is enough and I will always think that the Bulgarian health care worker, doctor, nurse, nurse and all others who help our patients to be healthier and faster to return home will always receive insufficient, no matter how many these figures are. We believe that without quality changes, without shutting down taps and without stopping corruption, we will not achieve what I hope everyone in this room wants. This is our motto, our creed and our politics! Zero tolerance for corruption, because otherwise regardless of the volume of figures in the update or in the budget, as I mentioned, they will always be insufficient. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u441	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. A line? Mr. Angelov goes first. Mr. Petrov, third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u442	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Associate Professor Tonev, I will agree with you that there is a need for quality changes and quality change will come soon. All the politicians who lie will be sent on long leave. I mean the politicians of the Change. With regard to taps, the biggest tap in modern history is called the "More Change" and "Asen Vassilev" the biggest tap, which led to 10 billion debt within a year. Professor Tonev, you started your conversation that this House speaks politically. This proves Mr. Bikov's words that you really don't understand where you are, what you came for and where you're going. This building speaks only politically, and expert talks end at the Health Commission level. Regarding what you were saying, we are about to find out if the 100 figures in the budget are enough. Well, haven't you had enough time for your analysis so far? You offer a specific number, you offer 100 pieces, and you say we're still going to find out if they're enough. Well, what have you been doing so far? You also say that the health system is a complex system. The health system is not a complex system, Mr. Tonev! The health system is a conservative system, and conservative public systems require understanding in order to manage them and expertise in order to change them. Regarding that you are proposing adequate reform, you are not proposing adequate reform, and you are proposing an inadequate budget for changing the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. You give European examples then behave Europeanly. In Europe, politicians don't lie. [[The President gives an indication of the expiry of time.]] Mr. Chairman, give me a chance to speak as Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u443	I didn't interrupt you, Mr. Angelov. I'm just giving you a signal because Mrs. Alexandrova will scold me if I interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u444	In Europe, they don't lie! When in Europe they promise to pay doctors salaries of BGN 2000, BGN 1500. of a sister and 1000 leva. A nurse, they do. You don't do it! In my statement, I'll prove it. When you say that you will offer quality and modern help in small towns, how do you offer it exactly?! Why can't these settlements see this help? Nowhere in the budget is there a mark on this thing in either the big one or the small one of the National Health Insurance Fund. You say that you introduce quality policies and digitalization in the Bulgarian health care............................................................................. no! You said with a light word that you thanked the people before you. The electronic health record began to be made during the time of our government, the electronic recipe was released during our government, the e-direction was released during our government. Yes, to fight in the chest, I understand, but since we have a minister of e-government, we have started sending Bulgarian men to an obstetrician. I told you that in the Health Committee, it's probably normal for you, it's insane for us. Thank you for your attention. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u445	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. And I gave you more than four minutes. I think we're even now. The next line is Mr. Baltov's, the third one is Mr. Petrov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u446	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Associate Professor Tonev, agree, but somehow I cannot accept your theory that the hospitals had failed because of their directors who were willing to leak the money to another direction and not to think about the employees in them. You obviously don't have any administrative experience, because if you were really familiar with how things work... The first thing to be done in a hospital is to provide payments and salaries, first and foremost, the insurance, then the salaries of all those working in these hospitals, so from now on just think about what you're saying. It is not good to bring in such insinuations, especially that the directors took no account of what high salaries, while you see the workers did not receive their salaries. There's no such thing. That's where sometimes deficits come from, because first we have to secure the salaries of the workers and then pay the other duties at the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u447	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Peter Petrov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Associate Professor Tonev, I will get started on the re-deprecating and the theme of the lie. The first thing you said about me is that there was no way in a video to explain to people with disabilities how to put a prosthetic. I think, Associate Tonev, that we have read various bills for the update of the Health Insurance Fund and I am surprised if you, as Chairman of the Health Commission, have not read the same. I would like to quote the specifics and volumes of the new activities that will be carried out by these new 100 people, namely: The conclusion of individual contracts with the persons involved in the provision and repair of aids; the processing of applications for allocation; the examination of applications from newly formed expert committees; the notification of the applications lodged in the 21st century is an absurdity to become an online monitoring and control of the support and repair process; the processing of reference documents for the provision and repair of assistance funds; the payment of medical devices; the payment of medical devices; aid traders providing assistance. Nowhere is there a word here that rehabilitation activities will be carried out involving training of disabled people how to use aids. If it said that money would be used for this, I would be the first to vote for, but unfortunately, for some administrative activities that were expected to be carried out, how can I say, much more effectively by opening the clamp. If you ask the Social Ministry, you will understand that so far the same activities have been carried out by the Social Assistance Agency without additional funds, and you want to appoint 100 people for this purpose, then we should understand that this four million will somehow not go where it is appropriate to treat the Bulgarian citizens. And the second thing you said, and that concludes that I'm unfamiliar with hospital management. Dear Associate Professor Tonev, since I am very dear to the parliamentary immunity and I would not like to be taken away or asked for it, it is better for me to be unaware of how hospitals are managed. I hope everyone in this room understands me correctly. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u449	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u450	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable replicators! Professor Angelov, you really caused me a smile. Thank you for your lines. Thank you for admitting that you speak politically, because that excuses all the things you said. Once again, I'll just say that in those six months, I've found a lot of good ideas, some of which have begun, and reaching a place where an interest, appearing, has made the idea hanging in the air. I'm not an investigator to tell you what the reasons were, but there are many such ideas. Of course, many of them started before you became a politician from GERB, I admit that, but not only. Professor Baltov, yes, first we have to provide insurance, yes, some hospitals spend nearly 80% on work and wages, but there are also medical institutions where even the money is split into two, so that half of the amount can be covered by hospital debts. And by no means do I want to say that the directors of hospitals are on the other side, as you were at Pirogov, but the opposite. We have the same problems with hospital directors, but all hospital directors have stood up for the current allocation system with low basic salary and high DMS, and this is already in Europe in a completely different way. There's no DMS in Germany. Why? The German system is worse? Once again, there is no doctor from this tribune who will say that the funds are sufficient, but without reform they will not be enough in 10 years. Mr. Petrov, you once again told Professor Salchev that these positions are pointless. He's standing right next to you, and I'm guessing now he's gonna throw you the idea that he wanted twice as much. This is the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, one of the trained doctors in Bulgarian healthcare, who may be better than me, and you know what problem, and what administrative activities they will face. The final effect that I had in mind, unfortunately, is patients who will need medical devices, whatever they are, to get them in the best possible and fastest way, and that without a good administration, which, unfortunately, still needs to have a personal effect, cannot happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u451	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Personal explanation? Come on in if you're feeling hurt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u452	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Prof. Tonev, I am taking a personal explanation procedure not because I am personally affected, but because I want to ask you: you as Chairman of the Committee on Health and Recipient of this government...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u453	Mr. Subev, you can't ask questions!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u454	...are you satisfied with this budget? Will people learn quality health care? Is access gonna be better? Would the hospital staff be happy with this thing? Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u455	Mr. Subev! Mr. Subev, thank you, but that wasn't a personal explanation. Mr. Weyselov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u456	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A moment ago, associate Professor Chakarov explained very strongly why we will not support the NHIF budget and will therefore be very brief so that I do not take time from the parliament. As I said in the Health Committee, we at the DPS will not support this budget for several reasons. The first is that this budget offers absolutely nothing new. The second reason is that this budget has no anti-crisis measures. And the third, most important reason for me, is that the salaries of the medical workers will not be raised, as stated, namely for a nurse BGN 920, for sisters BGN 1500. and for doctors BGN 2000 and generally for all medical workers, because in one team there are not only nurses, nurses and doctors, there are many other medical workers. As the trails increase by 20, 25%, even half will not be able to raise wages. For several weeks there have been checks in municipal hospitals and you will see for yourself, you obviously do not know that these hospitals are in an extremely difficult situation. These hospitals, what should they do first to raise the salaries of medical workers, pay their bills, pay their medical supplies or pay their high electricity bills, which at the moment, yes, are not so high, but in a few months we will re-enter the heating season and the bills will increase dramatically? These people are sick and tired of listening to lies, these people want a decent payday. They want a decent wage for taking care of the health of Bulgarian citizens. These people want a decent wage, as in the Western countries. As you know, for two years we've been fighting the Kovid pandemic, and all the medical workers have proven that without them, we're nowhere. And in this context of thought, as your Prime Minister likes to say, we are always assured of something, and I assure you that there are protests being prepared by medical workers throughout Bulgaria and not only in this sector, but also in other spheres. I therefore hope that measures will be taken with regard to the payment of all medical workers, because in a few years we will have a deficit of these and this will be a big problem for the health system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u457	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Are there any lines to Mr. Weyselov? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u458	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleague Weyselov, now I cannot understand: You are criticising the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and I will quote you literally what you are saying: the salaries will not rise, the bills will increase dramatically, the people want a decent wage, you hope to take measures. But the measures will be taken by adopting the Law at first reading, that is, by supporting it and by making proposals to raise wages in order to take measures to have a decent pay. You reject it, he, the law, ends, and what you've been called for is going to strike, it's not going to happen, it's just not going to happen. If you support him, he'll just have a chance. It may not be accepted at second reading, but at least it will have a chance to happen. You want to close the subject today and all those who are supposedly concerned about them to remain in the same situation as they are right now. By the way, I'm addressing all the MPs, if you really want something to help the health system, you have to support it, otherwise the other doesn't make sense, empty political talk is from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u459	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Weyselov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, I stand by my words. Yeah, if there's any anti-crisis measures, we're ready to back them up, but I don't see any. With a 20-year increase in clinical pathways, there is no way to increase these salaries. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] We are going to make our proposals between first and second readings, so if we can not get false information that these salaries will rise by lifting the clinical pathways from 20 to 25%. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u461	Thank you, Mr. Weyselov. Mr. Baltov has the floor. The last statement stated for the time being is Mrs. Kostadinova's.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests from the Health Insurance Fund! Forty-six million two hundred and fifty thousand leva that is actually the damage of the sector..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The savings from the desiccation of the wool and compensation of the workers with COVID-19, as well as under art. BGN 600 360 120, although promised to be given by the end of June 2022, we are witnessed that this did not happen. We all know what happened in the first quarter of 2022. The changed methodology for the work and adverse conditions of work and what it did to hospitals, which had revealed the most beds for the treatment of horse mackerel, led to deficits that affected the financial situation of the hospitals. Regardless of the promises to change the methodology of the National Health Insurance Fund and voted by the Supervisory Board, this unfortunately did not happen. I am of the opinion that these funds should be maintained, which, according to the treatment of severity and employment, can be compensated for the medical establishments and paid for the vaccinations carried out in the medical establishments for the month of April and May, for which there is evidence that they have not been paid up so far. No idea what's gonna happen in the fall. I don't know if the audience is familiar, but we can see that there are two subvariants of the strain of Omicron that are not caught, and immunization with a vaccine, unfortunately, is not enough. No second booster dose was provided. We see that the Health Ministry has no such intention, and this is already a fact throughout Europe. So I personally think that we should think about keeping these funds and leaving these funds in the budget to be really left to the $40,6 million and $250,000, and the funds that come in with the update of the state social security budget to enter the National Health Insurance Fund. As regards the 100 states allocated to the National Health Insurance Fund, responsible for the activities carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which have so far been carried out by the Social Assistance Agency, they will be for the granting, control and repair of the support funds, medical devices, devices and facilities. At the same time, we are witnessing protest actions by the employees of the National Health Insurance Fund. Several regional health insurance accounts have said that they do not have any wage updates so far and we see that they are probably not at the 4 million that will be given and it is not clear whether there will be an update for them. Just when the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund was adopted, before that there was a hearing of Professor Salchev, who promised that by July 1st this new department would already be working. With such an update we see that these 100 people, who will be appointed to the National Health Insurance Fund, will by no means be ready to take over this process from July 1st, and for this we had promises and here almost everything should be ready. We can see that even then it wasn't taken into account that there would be a need for 100 new stats and they weren't secured, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u463	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Is there a line to the statement? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u464	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Baltov, honourable colleagues! On behalf of our constituents, I would like to thank you for the salaries you raised over the last 12 years for the medical workers; for the ten thousand medical workers who went to work abroad; for meeting all the demands of the nurses who were hanging on the windows of the Council of Ministers; and especially for the wonderful children's hospital that you built. Thank you very much. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u465	Thank you, Mrs. Apostolova. Is there a second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Baltov, if you'd like. Okay. A statement by Mrs. Kostadinova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have heard a lot of populist speeches here today. I listened carefully to the constructive criticism of the opposition. So I was wondering, what have you done as governors in the last 10 years in the field of health? What improved working conditions for health workers? And I remembered. I was at the hospital in Yambol on Monday. So I was wondering, what year am I in 1970 or 2021?! On the side, I saw a hospital that was built for 46 years. That's how you couldn't finish this hospital for ten years. How much did you raise the salaries of health professionals? How much? Zero. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Wait, I'll get there. Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u467	Do not enter into a discussion with the House. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u468	You've ruled for 10 years. Didn't you notice that the ratio of doctors decreases over time? There's a 1-1 doctor right now. It was supposed to be 1:3. [[Heckling]] You're very funny, Mr. Angelov. You're very funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u469	No, don't go into discussion with the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u470	Okay, now you want a triple increase in doctors' salaries. And we want it. But when you had the chance, why didn't you? In six months we raised the minimum pension, raised the wage threshold, made kindergartens free. We are now taking first steps towards raising salaries in the field of health care. I have a question for Assoc. Tonev: how will the promised increase in wages come to the health workers, I could never understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u471	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. I suppose there will be a line from Mr. Tonev to answer that question. Here you go. If there are any other lines, of course, give a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u472	Dear Mr. Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We were never able to escape the form of a discussion and Professor Baltov received a dialogue, and Mrs. Kostadinova asked me questions. Yes, Professor Baltov, it was convenient when in the first quarter we gave ready money and that money went on purpose. But our reform and our proposal was to stop calling them hard-earned money. With the 25% increase in clinical pathways, I would like to remind you that this decision was taken in February when inflation was 7%. Seven percent. Our proposal, which then, with your help or not, passed and with the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, were voted on, which enabled to increase the prices of clinical pathways in hospital care by 25%. I'm talking about the month of February and the so-called gifts or benevolents or kosher money that, served in this form, would eventually run out, entered the prices of clinical pathways. I just want to tell you that the practice so far has not been to increase the prices of clinical pathways. The practice so far was to increase the number of patients who would go through the hospital, and along with this went days of minimum hospital stay, then came the convenient vacation, which doctors easily discharge, as they do not take it out of their pocket, and finally one missed days for the Bulgarian economy. It turns out that the product health we as a society pay it 3 times. That was and is still one of the reforms we want to change. Therefore, the European Union in a directive tells us: you have twice as many hospitalizations as is necessary. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, without qualitative changes, we will hardly actually raise wages in the health sector and make them comparable on the European labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u473	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. For a line? First Mr. Dimitrov gave a line. For the third line, Mr. Baltov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kostadinova, you mentioned the hospital in Yambol. This same hospital was also mentioned by Mr. Kiril Petkov on the first day of the National Assembly. And I want to ask you: what does your government do for her? It was built 40 years ago and nothing is being done on it right now. Nothing at all! You can go out and explain to the whole of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u475	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Third line, Mr. Baltov. Let's not bother people. It's true, but I'm not at liberty to comment further. You have the floor, Mr. Balton.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is that, Mrs. Kostadinova, you'd be more comfortable, perhaps, opening up the Medical Police Department. What you're saying all the time is constantly about some deficits that you control and want to become a medical officer. I'm very sorry, but we're talking about health care. We have done our best to raise wages as far as possible with the funds we have, but there is no way with 25% increase in clinical pathways to raise wages 100%. That's not gonna happen. And to the Health Commission, I told you that if we put in a pool a tube of 10 liters that enter the pool, and we have two pipes that drain it 8 liters each, well, it's not gonna happen! The same thing happened at the moment with your reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u477	Thank you, Mr. Baltov. Here you go, Mrs. Kostadinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u478	A colleague of mine, on Monday, we were meeting with the director of the hospital in Yambol. We have asked what the problems are and we have his assurance that the hospital will be completed by the end of next year. [[Noise and lines.]] That's it. Mr. Baltov, in order to have quality health care, we must have staff. That is to say, health care staff, and they ran away because they had a very good paycheck in the last 10 years. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u479	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. Now, it's not my job, but sooner than the end of next year, it's gonna be the hospital. I don't know what the principal told you, but let the people be calm. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov. I failed my colleagues by pressing the signal just now for a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u480	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable representatives of the Change! I have the feeling that you have already played, as this is the last budget you offer in the sector.............................................................................. to the Bulgarian patients and Bulgarian citizens. You'll get some rest very soon. Now let me tell you what budget you are proposing: You are offering a budget of political hypocrisy, a budget of false hopes, a budget of management infirmity, a budget of false promises, a budget of political cynicism and a budget of lie, called the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. Why is this all so? Because the net increase in revenue and expenditure in the budget and transfers amounts to 65 million. lv. For health insurance payments, it's 55.9 million. BGN, of which for hospital medical care are 45.9 million. lv. Dear Governors, you promised a 100% increase in basic salaries, and you increased monthly limits in hospitals by approximately 20%. How did all this happen? On 3 April 2022 the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister Lena Borislavov, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, promises that within weeks the above basic salaries will become a fact, namely BGN 2000. to a doctor, 1500 " to a nurse, 910 " to a nurse in the hospital health care system. On 12 April 2022 was signed the collective employment contract in the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On 29 April the National Framework Treaty was signed between the representatives of the Supervisory Board of NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical Union. It says that the main salaries will only be raised from August 1st, and under a number of controversial conditions. So far, the signed National Framework Treaty says that Mrs. Lena Borislavov lied in early April. I would like to tell you that, in parallel with the increase in the monthly limits of medical institutions by 20%, five times the increase in electricity, five times the increase in gas bills, the lack of timely assistance for compensation and fair compensation for the costs of medical institutions leads to their indebtedness. If you take the accounts of the medical institutions for the first quarter of 2022, you will see that they are all with an accounting loss that is formed by you, gentlemen who are responsible for all of you because of the incompetent decisions you are offering. With regard to all this, you are practically doing a programmed debt to medical institutions and their bankruptcy. All this leads to a risk to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens and endangering the national security of the country. No wages, no money, only national betrayal. National betrayal by the Bulgarian Prime Minister. The change remained deaf to the letters of all hospital associations, namely the Association of University Hospitals in Bulgaria. Mr. Chairman, would you please extend the time if you didn't extend it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u481	We've extended it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u482	National Association of Regional Multiprofile Hospitals, Association of Municipal Hospitals, Bulgarian Hospital Association, National Association of Private Hospitals, which say: The provisions laid down in the Project concerning the costs of staff establishments, their share of the revenue from the NHIF, a ratio between the minimum and maximum gross wage of medical professionals, the initial basic monthly salaries for the categories of staff shall be outside the scope of the LDC, as detailed in art. 55 of the Insurance Act. Dear colleagues, why do I say that you are proposing a budget of political hypocrisy of management weakness and false promises? In front of me is the Coalition Agreement, which has been written by.. We continue the Change........ with all parties.......................... Here you say that you will propose a first step towards moving on a new funding system. " Such a step I do not see, such a step you will not have time to propose. You have less than seven days left. You also say that 95% for paid medicinal products from NHIF and solidarity participation in pay by parents for children up to 14 years for acute diseases. This is the second lie in the coalition agreement you signed, which will not happen in the health budget. The other lie about NHIF starting to pay the user fee to specialists in outpatient practice, so far well, a fact. In addition, the fee of the hospital for the hospitalized children. There's no such thing. You're dealing with hospital health again. I have a feeling you hate hospitals, and you hate public hospitals. The next lie stimulates prevention programs for children. There is absolutely nothing in the proposed budget of the National Health Insurance Fund Act. You also offer funding for the activities of medical institutions based on their real priorities defined by the Health Card and on quality. The Ministry of Health has been saying for several months that I have to change the health card, but until now one step has not moved forward. Again, I'm lying in your management program. Creating effective hospital care. Nothing happens in the hospital aid regarding the National Health Insurance Fund Act except pouring money, no efficiency or improvement of the organization. Analysis of payments by patients and their optimization when the treatment is carried out by the NHIF. The payments in the hospital system are more than 50% of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund or the annual budget in the healthcare system in Bulgaria. You have absolutely done nothing for the Bulgarian patient to reduce them. Just wishes. The next one is an extension of the volume and scope of screening programmes, as well as of vaccination programmes for socially significant diseases. Colleagues, your super deputy prime minister Mr. Vassilev cancelled the National vaccination programme for rotavirus for Bulgarian children, for which you will do great things you promise. None of these things are embedded in your management program. Next thing you know, it's about integrating medical records into all majors in parallel to the health record. A wish in the future time will come! Dental care. The funds provided for under the NHIF to be a wider range of activities, including emergency dental care and child prevention. There's not a penny for dentistry in the National Health Insurance Fund budget. Otherwise, the program has it in the future. Change the focus of the health system in order to improve the conditions for diagnosis and treatment in hospital care and reduce hospital treatment. Regionalization of health care. I do not understand this because I am probably an expert with low expertise, but apparently the people of Varna will not be able to be treated in Sofia. Once again, we have a wish in the future. Dear colleagues, esteemed managers, everything in your program is in the future time, everything is going to! One thing's for sure, you'll be gone, and these days. Stay well! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u483	Are there any lines to Mr. Angelov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Tonev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u484	Dear Mr. Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Angelov, one line with a few brief questions. From your political and expert statement, we from "We continue the Change" and the other colleagues realized that six months are equal to four years, because we owe you an answer as for four years and a whole coalition agreement. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Besides a politician, you were the director of a hospital and a minister, and a minister during a very serious crisis. Rhetorically I will ask: how many reforms have you managed to make during a crisis, but unlike you, I will not try to bring this out as your negative, because in times of crisis it is wrong to make reforms. The last six months, we have been in daily crises, some of which are inflated as a balloon by the opposition, of course, it has a purpose and benefit from this thing and we understand perfectly. Regarding some programmed adverse conditions for hospitals, as you said, Professor Angelov, and yours, I will not say suggestion, but your idea that poorly scheduled documents lead to programmed increases in hospital debts. So you're saying this is the first time we've been able to program this process, and the accumulation of 700 million debts has happened by accident and unprogrammed?! And if that's true, has hospital care been run by accident for the last 10 years? We will continue the discussion and personally securely if you can answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u485	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. Second line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u486	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Angelov! You're talking about financing hospitals, and I don't even know why you're going out to speak, considering what the conclusion of the hospital's audit report is that you ran. Just before the casket, because we can accept what Dr. Tonev said that it is a crisis faster and harder to absorb funds, but just before that more than 10 million. lv. losses under your management have accumulated Alexandrovska Hospital. At the moment and after your management, this hospital is in such a difficult state that it may be facing closures of one of the emblematic hospitals in Sofia. Except that you failed as a hospital director, you and as a minister didn't make any very big impression, but now you're coming here, waving some criticism, trying to criticize. It's okay, there's no perfect things, there's definitely some problems in this budget, it's not perfect, there's no money for everything. But you are not the person to come out of this tribune and on these subjects to criticize. Look first in your own file and everything else before you politicalize. You should have said something expert, a lot of political talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u487	Thank you. Here's a third line and then you'll have a chance to answer, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u488	Dear Professor Angelov, honored guests! I would like to understand the criticisms of Professor Angelov, they are completely professional, of course, and on behalf of our constituents to thank him and, of course, the citizens for the European development of Bulgaria. Thank you for buying new ambulances for all Bulgarian cities. Thank you also for completing e-health. Thank you for buying air ambulances that are doing us such a good job. Thank you for your effectiveness. You are also right that our program is in the future. This is natural because your program is only in the past tense. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u489	Thank you, Mrs. Apostolova. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u490	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My fellow Members, I am truly happy with you. There's a saying that the snake bites the most at the end. Your end is approaching, and so many people are already quite joyful. Regarding Mr. Tonev. Mr. Tonev, I'm not going to answer the things you said, I'm just going to give an example. The National Statistical Institute issued a report on mortality in the first quarter of 2022. It is higher than in the first quarter of 2021. So much for effective management of the Change. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The mortality of Bulgarian citizens at your time is greater than the death of Bulgarian citizens in our time in the conditions of a species. Under the conditions of a Kovid! Regarding Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Ananiev, with everything you're doing, you're proving one thing you really don't understand what you're doing. And what you don't do, you don't understand at all. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] With regard to the colleague, I have no honour to know her, well, ask Mr. Kiril Petkov by swearing as a Canadian citizen in the presidency. Ask him! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, may I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u491	Well, maybe, yeah. Colleagues, there's no need for these calls. You know, there are procedures for everything. Go on, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u492	There are really people in this room who, besides reading their notes correctly, can do nothing else. I do accept your thanks for one simple reason that two thirds of them are a fact. Thank you, indeed 400 ambulances were purchased on the big project for modernization of emergency aid. Yeah, that's what we did. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Regarding air ambulances, well, come on, sit down and figure out the Change what you're going to do, because different people say different things. You're not going to do this because you're just going. The only thing I want to wish you to be healthy and a little more to learn how to behave in the Bulgarian Parliament, a little more time to study Bulgarian parliamentaryism and practice, because a very small part of you will have to practice it again. Good luck. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. National Representative Nikolay Angov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u493	About what, Mr. Angov, for speaking? Okay. First, Professor Mikhailov, then Mr. Angov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u494	Please extend the group's time, Mr. Chairman! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! The Bulgarian Socialist Party will support at first reading the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Starting my speech after a rather long debate, I would like to thank some of the people who have posed constructive critical problems. I remember here my good colleague and friend Dr. Chakarov, when he asked a question a long time ago we had a very nice discussion here, a very collegiate discussion in Parliament. He said himself and we all agreed then that the results of health reforms can be expected at the earliest in 5 years, but should be started because there are many objective conditions that prevent the rapid deployment of the effects of reforms in Bulgarian healthcare. And here I will now move on to an aphorism that characterizes the overall attitude of colleagues from GERB to the problem of budget update, about the work of parliament at all, that people who represent part of the problem cannot be part of its solution. And now I'm going to have to remind you of everything you've done for your 12-year government, which you blame the Coalition's six-month reign. Six months! [[Noise and lines.]] Let's not yell at each other here. Before that, they were service governments. The first thing, and it has already been told to you by colleagues since you have begun here dramatically to give pompous explanations and declarations of emergency assistance, you have crashed the problem of emergency assistance as a project and now wonders the Ministry of Health from the proposed and established 230 points You have completed a speech and a digital no more than 20. Don't brag about ambulances, because it's a small part that you didn't buy high-speed ambulances. In terms of mortality. Your government has led Bulgaria to the first place in mortality before the Cord pandemic to the worst indicators in all the health indicators in Europe, and in terms of the death of a horse, we have found ourselves in the second place since Peru. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]] Do you remember this, the ones who are now quoting the National Statistical Institute?! Why not quote the National Centre for Public Health, which told you last year, this is a state organisation, not a political one, that in the management of the crisis you have taken mainly political and not expert decisions. Yes, this is the place to speak politically, but health policy must rest on expert decisions. The next problem for which you are asking the serious question and in which the Coalition has made visible progress. You've been talking since 2017 to an aplomb about eHealth. What did you finish in four years full term? Nothing at all! What did you do with the children's hospital project? Nothing at all! What did you do with the hospital in Yambol? Nothing at all! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you're sitting here in this discussion reading the morals of 130 people and explaining how much you've done and how it's going to go away? Who will decide where the Bulgarian voter will go and will be seen. Don't dig other people's graves! There is a very serious aphorism in this regard that whoever digs another's grave falls into it. Because here Professor Angelov shared in a spirit of self-criticism that he did not feel capable of understanding the term regionalization, now I will explain it to you. It is not what you think that the patients from Varna will not be able to be treated in Varna, but that in every region in Bulgaria, which you did not provide, there will be a possibility that the Bulgarian patient in the golden hour will reach his specialized doctor. It's regionalization, Professor Angelov! If you haven't figured it out, you've got to figure it out. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]] And once we've done a run-of-the-mill analysis of the successful in quotes management, 12 years of health care, now to share the opinion of our political power. We will support the budget, but we seriously consider it and have said it to our coalition partners that there are problems in the area of implementation of the Coalition Agreement in the................................................................................. These problems are related to a few basic things. The first problem is really the assessment of management and funding... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's not up to me, Mr. Lawyer. I speak normally. The fact that the system is not balanced is not my fault. Because you make gestures all the time, I understand what you mean. ...of the health care system. This problem must start, as other colleagues from other parliamentary groups have said here, but the first BSP has put this issue, should be posed as a national issue of national political consensus on how to finance and how to manage the health system. However, we remember that there is no respect here for me Mr. Ananiev, who made two meetings at the National Palace of Culture, who graduated without any result, and then came out people who are directly engaged in the management and financing of the health insurance system, and said that they were not consulted at all about these meetings and their opinion was not addressed. We will not make this mistake, but we have made a delay in putting this problem at national level. The second question is regarding the increase in remuneration. Yes, the contract between the NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical Union was concluded in a way that does not give a real opportunity for effective increase in remuneration, but the roots of this are in the way of financing and reporting the system of trade companies, clinical pathways. While you are spinning this slot, and you are the biggest defenders of this, there is no way to achieve balancing of the system that you are talking about and going in the direction of increasing hospital care, which is a practice throughout the European world. Both the World Health Organization and the World Bank paid attention to you four years on this issue during your regular management, but you did not take any note. And if you're asking about hospital care, which department grew a huge number of hospitals? At your command, gentlemen! To your station! It's the truth! Next, the problem of the footage. On this issue, we also have a delay in solving the problem and the concrete proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is centralising the specialization after the completion of university education, as it is throughout the European Union. Next, the drug policy, the reimbursement list, the problem of supply in small settlements, the problem of re-exporting medicines. These are all problems that can't be delayed. We will do everything possible to ensure that the budget update is successfully completed, but we will put these problems very clearly to our colleagues from the Coalition and we will look for a solution, as health management has been outrageous and ineffective in the last 12 years. This must be done and we must, in the interests of the entire nation, all of us here, not individual parties alone, do our best to achieve this national consensus and move towards its optimization. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u495	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? Tsoncho Ganev. You have the floor, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u496	Professor Mikhailov, extremely, very emotionally speaking. At one point, I was worried about something unpleasant. I'm glad you were so emotional. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this regard, you said extremely nice things, I would sign under many of them, only the big question and the big question is a third budget we are currently discussing at your coalition, seven months you are ruling: which of these have you started at least? Not did you, which one did you start? By you, I mean your Coalition. Clearly, you personally did not, but what did you even start as a trial? You well pointed out Mr. Chakarov's words that it takes five or six years to see results, and here you have developed what needs to be done. I'm sorry, seven months, again, third budget! We are currently discussing the third budget of your coalition! Nothing, absolutely nothing, and in all the other sectors of this budget, in healthcare, a big nothing like reforms! Once again we're pouring money somewhere for something, there's gonna be another chain of dissatisfied, disillusioned and disappearing specialists. Once again, what exactly of what you have said is extremely correct, I repeat, extremely correct? What exactly did your coalition launch to launch reforms? Nothing! Here is the chairman of the Health Commission to come out to say: this is what we have started reforming, this is what we have done, and we are waiting for a result - support us in order to realize something. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry, there's no way we can support something that you're just pouring money for without knowing what to expect. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u497	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Second line Mr. Angelov, third line Mr. Tonev. [[National Representative Anton Tonev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Ah, you for a personal explanation. Okay, third line, Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u498	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, at one point I expected you to wave the red flag and sing We are at every kilometre [[Applause from GERB-SDS, comments from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev]] I just want to tell you that you were explaining that COVID-19 is a harmless disease and that there is absolutely nothing scary about going without masks. You really don't realize exactly where you are and what's going on, but you reading morals from this tribune, you whose immunity is requested by a second chief prosecutor for crimes of general character... [[a line from National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u499	Your time is up, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u500	...for the sake of idleness! You of this tribune to make criticism is funny, funny, you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u501	Time's up, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u502	You, Professor Mihailov, should just be silent when it comes to management and management of health care!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u503	Stop talking nonsense, Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u504	Time's up. Mr. Svilensky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u505	Where are you going to hand out sentences from here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u506	Mr. Mihailov will defend himself. [[Extreme lines by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Mr. Svilensky! [[Extreme lines between the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Kostadin Angelov.]] Mr. Svilensky, I think Professor Mihailov will have the opportunity to defend himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u507	What kind of sentences am I handing out? Has he been asked for immunity? [[Extreme lines between the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Kostadin Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u508	Mr. Svilensky! [[National representatives of GERB-SDS, "BSP for Bulgaria"................................................................................................. Continued lines, screaming.]] Colleagues, please take your seats! [[Loud noise, lines, screams.]] Colleagues, please take your seats! [[Executing lines, screaming, pushing.]] Please, colleagues, take your seats in the hall! [[Executing lines, screaming, pushing.]] Colleagues, please take your seats immediately and the Quaestors, if possible, will divide the two groups. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I think Professor Mikhailov is able to defend himself. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u509	What's he got to ask questions about?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u510	We've done enough for today. [[(Replica: "What an example" gives... (Applause by MPs from GERB-SDSS, Bravo!) Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u511	You're letting him go on the stand!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u512	Please, colleagues, don't let me take any breaks, please take your seats! The work of the Quaestors to help this happen, thank you for that. There is another line, then Professor Mihailov will have the opportunity to answer. [[Reply: "Procedure in manner! "]] Wait a minute. [[Replyings of MPs in front of the stands.]] Please, colleagues, then explain to the President what he has done. Please take your seats and calm down. Nothing scary happened. As Mr. Tsonev said this morning, he'll be nervous in the next few days. Please show the necessary patience. Mr. Mitev for the third line. Here you go, Mr. Mitev. Please make way for Mr. Mitev to sit down. I think we're more excited than we should be. Wait a few more seconds, Mr. Mitev. Nothing in this room has been decided with a high tone and driving in front of the microphones is done by voting. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Here you go, Mr. Mitev. I think we can now move on to the third line, and I hope that in your line you will take note of the high degree of tension in the room. I see smiles now, colleagues, please, really...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u513	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihailov, my line is to you, but she somehow wants to affect what Mr. Angelov said earlier. As you know, we continue Changing is a young political force, and although they give us some time, they gave us some time from the beginning. Typical for the young is this, Professor Angelov, that it is difficult to fall, easy to become, so the change has just begun. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u514	That, I suppose, was more of a supporter than a line to Mr. Mihailov. Now I think the time has come to hear Professor Mihailov's backdrop. Just because you're standing, does that mean you're prepared to move fast to the stands? Please to the left and to the right, take your seats in the hall! Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Replicators! Regarding colleague Ganev, I remember the words of a former Prosecutor General, because here Professor Angelov in a typical uncollageable style involved another topic in the discussion, which once in an interview said: "When we talk about topics that are nationally significant, I allow myself to be emotional and this is totally justified. And regarding the update, I would like to correct you: this is the first update of the first budget of the Coalition! Don't mix the government of the caretaker government and the Coalition. With regard to Professor Angelov, I think that society has put you in the right place for your overall activity in relation to the Kovid pandemic and the attitude that people demonstrated to your permanent briefings, and the explanations you gave back then. This assessment gives the public to you. Who knows what from COVID-19 at least you are the person who can define because you are not competent in this area and in many other areas, unfortunately. However, with regard to your last remark, which was deprived of any parliamentary fellowship, of any medical collegiality, of course, that anyone who speaks has the right to say everything he wants, but must be responsible for what he says. I'm just going to remind you of things that are notoriously known, as lawyers say. I've found the hospital with a million debts. It's not classified information. And at the time of my management, I've reduced it by a million. I didn't increase them, Professor Angelov. I reduced them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u516	This is in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u517	For the courtroom are also the arguments, Mrs. Atanasova, of your colleague, and not for here, because there was one of your group presidents at your place, who was also waving accusations against me! He's been in history a long time! There are institutions, there is a place where such things can be said, but I did not expect you to afford things that have not been proven. I will not mention that these things stood for four years.. there was enough time and during the forty-fourth meeting, and then two other meetings of the institutions concerned to judge and bring them into court. That says a lot about that kind of accusation. But this isn't the place for that. Therefore, I call on you, when we talk about healthcare, do not try to muddy your colleagues, because this is how you muddle the entire parliament! Unfortunately, this is beginning to become perseverance in your political behaviour as a parliamentarians. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u518	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mr. Tonev wanted a personal explanation, but let it really be a personal explanation, to follow our procedures in the finals, so that no further tension is created in the Chamber. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u519	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev, in a very calm and unholy tone, I will only list some things that we have started and developed as reforms and as a programme. His question to me was: what was the Chairman of the Health Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u520	In general, if you felt affected...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u521	Yeah, as head of the Health Commission, I felt affected and I'm just answering.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u522	Make it brief, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u523	We launched the program for the first time at the end of the year we will have a first air ambulance and a first helicopter. We have started a reform, which I can now say is in the middle with the personal doctors, because one of the directives of the European Union, which I mentioned about the too many hospitalizations, is going through several difficult reforms and some more elegant reforms. We have chosen the option in which we do not burden any other sector but to reform the sector. Although it was in a different way politically appreciated, we were able to extract a large amount, which is already a given for our health care system, the so-called "horse hospitals" or "horse money," and we included them as a normal and monthly addition to the prices of clinical pathways.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u524	Mr. Tonev...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u525	We started a discussion in the health care system about the role of paramedics and the absolutely negative opinion at the beginning, at the moment more and more questions are being asked when should we expect the first paramedics? We have started talks and we have presented the first programming documents to create, to reform the so-called emergency assistance and many other projects that are currently being developed. With the question, however, what have you done in five months, apart from not knowing the conservative according to Professor Angelov's health system in Bulgaria, there is nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u526	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. For procedure, Mr. Ananiev? Here you go. [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] He asked before you. I'll bet you do. Even before Mr. Tonev came out. Nothing, please don't do this now...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u527	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct with two aspects. The first, make an official remark to Mrs. Kirova, who sits next to you, who once again allows herself to take pictures from the place she is assigned to, what is happening in the Chamber. [[Shouts: "Woo!" by GERB-SDS.]] If he's a reporter for Pick, he can be a reporter and take pictures, but if he's not, he can't take pictures from the room, but he can't take pictures from above. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's the fourth or fifth time he's done it. The other thing, I want a very serious punishment to the MP Manev, who physically pushed four or five colleagues and must be removed from tomorrow's session. [[NOISE, GERB-SDS REPEALS]] And that's what you see on the video. Physically dealing with colleagues from Left. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] So, please be punished and a remark for Mrs. Kirova. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u528	Hold on, hold on. [[People want the floor.]] Now, I see you all, one by one. First of all, five seconds of silence, if we may, to introduce some order. I must respond to Mr. Ananiev, first, after which I will have to give the floor to Mr. Karimanski, no, not to you, then each in turn, as I said. Mr. Ananiev, nowhere in the Rules does it say that it is forbidden for the MPs to film in the Chamber, so it is a matter of personal judgment. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] If we introduce such a rule, I will make a remark, but at this point, I think we can at least know that if there are footage from this angle, they are from Mrs. Kirova. [[Applause from DPS.]] Regarding what happened to me this time, I don't have to look at cameras and recordings because it was right in front of me. My judgment at this point is that no one will be punished for what happened. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Because I think that in this case, we will draw the necessary conclusions and try to observe, in the coming days, how to say, good tone and not try to physically compensate for what we cannot do with words of speech from the stand. I hope in the procedures that are ahead, I really address you, colleagues, first, if it is possible to save them, if it is not possible, let them be such that they do not create further tensions. We're tired, already at 9:00, now it's 20:00, let's finish the day with dignity, as there were calls today. First of all, Mr. Karimansky has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u529	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct. I ask you very much, when someone wants the floor, that it has been affected personally because of the need for a reform to be carried out, to remind him that he, as committee chairman, is in the legislative power and the legislative authority of his committee, should be aware of what reform he has committed and not be responsible for the executive power, what she has done. You didn't make a remark, and that's why I'm making you a note. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u530	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. As you know, I have my two minutes, I will not use them all, but probably in the case of Mr. Tonev, he feels like a team with executive and legislative authority and when asked a question that nothing has been done, it has probably been personally affected as part of this team. That's why I didn't make him a note. However, there is reason in what you say, we will keep that in mind in the future. Are there any other procedures, lines? [[National Representative Manoil Manev wants the floor.]] Mr. Manev, I will give you this opportunity, but I hope you will use it as best you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u531	Mr. President, I will take advantage of the right that you have given me, mentioning my name, only to tell you that I thank you for the good conduct, the just conduct of this National Assembly and to advise your colleague, the other deputy and the chairman, to take an example from you, clearly, precisely and specifically to guide themselves in the situation. That is what I want to tell you by the right that I have as a procedure from there, 10, 8, 6.................................................................................. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u532	Thank you, Mr. Manev. You're almost giving me an excuse to make a personal explanation. Not being punished is no reason to praise me, because I am not convinced that I am 100% right. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I suggest we close the debate now. We're closing the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. I'm waiting a few seconds though, although reinforcements came a little early in the room and almost everyone's here. I will put to the vote the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022. I think everyone's already here. We vote. They voted 229 MPs: 130, against 70, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a procedure based on art. 79, para. 1 the deadline for submitting proposals between first and second readings to be reduced to five days, I am referring to the two budgets that we adopted today, namely that of the NHIF and the DOJ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u534	The proposal was made with one procedure, but we will have to make two votes, as we cannot do it with one for both laws. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. Back offer or something?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u535	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My reverse proposal is not to reduce at least the deadline, as I believe that on both budgets it is necessary to make proposals with appropriate adjustments to reflect today's statements made by opposition parties, including us. We believe that the money that should be given as a budget update is not small and we should have the opportunity, of course, to try to experts, as there has been such a need, we want to do so, which, if we accept this proposal to reduce the deadline, would limit our opportunity. I think we all have a desire one way or another to give enough money in the respective spheres. Therefore, my suggestion is that the standard seven-day period should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u536	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. The minister asked for the floor, I'll give it to him, as perhaps something related to the deadline will say. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] He's got a point now, guys. I think it's okay to hear that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u537	Maybe GERB doesn't want to hear what I'm going to say, but it's a fact and I'm going to say it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u538	No, we all want to hear it, Mr. Gokov. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u539	And you can't forbid me to speak, of course, but these are other things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u540	Do not engage in dialogue with colleagues from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u541	I'm not going into dialogue, but I'm a little overreacting on the right-hand side.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u542	Look downtown or to the left. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u543	I look at the centre and rather to the right to explain to all of my colleagues who may really have constructive proposals, but I would like to explain to the entire House that if we do not shorten the period of five days, state social security would not be able to enter into force, the budget, and the National Insurance Institute would not be able to cope with the payment of pensions from July 1st, i.e. from July 7th to July 20th. This is absolutely true, what I say, and colleagues from GERB can say whatever they want, they may want to sabotage all the work, but you should know that whoever votes against the reduction of five days of the term voted against pensioners getting their pensions from 1 July. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u544	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u545	You absolutely need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u546	Thank you. Let's not open a debate. [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor.]] Mr. Karadayi, I think we have heard a proposal for a reduction of the deadline, we have heard a proposal from the Minister not to be cut back, we have also heard the minister's opinion that he believes that he should be cut short with his arguments and that this way the House is fully informed about what it votes for and what the consequences of this are. I say we don't open a debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u547	Procedure against you, I want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u548	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u549	Against you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u550	Here you go. I didn't understand. If it's against me, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u551	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vigenin, my procedure is against you in the manner of conduct. You can't have ministers here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u552	Well, not like that now, stuff like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u553	...no matter where they came from... [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u554	... no matter how long the ministers will be alive and well, another 300 years will be ministers, but to come out of this tribune and blatantly lie! You can't lie, Mr. Gokov, from this tribune! And I understand now that your place is really there if you're gonna keep lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u555	Mr. Karadayi, to me, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u556	Otherwise, what you're saying was absolute lies. And that is why, Mr. President, when ministers stand here and start to prevent them from setting conditions for the MPs to vote, and they lie from this tribune, to really make remarks to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u557	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u558	Otherwise, it's a good thing you're almost there. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-15.u559	As I said, you are already loaded with all the information you need to make the following decision: First, I put to the vote the proposal that the deadline for proposals between first and second reading for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022 should be five days. Vote 232 MPs: 115 against 117 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from DPS.]] Colleagues from the DPS, let's have a round of applause after the revoting, because who knows, maybe one person can change their mind. Please re-vote mode. On behalf of us Continue Changing is the request. Vote 232 MPs: for 114, against 118, abstentions are not. [[Applause from DPS.]] The offer is not accepted. Apparently in the NSI will have to calculate faster and without errors. One more vote, fellow Members, a little more patience. I put to the vote the proposal that the period between and first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2022 should be five days. Colleagues, it's nice to be in your seats when you vote. Mr. Minister, under your law, the vote has passed. You can take a seat where the ministers belong. I think everyone voted. Please call off the vote. Announce the result. Vote 232 MPs: 113, against 118, abstention 1. [[Applause from DPS.]] I don't see any re-voting. This has exhausted the procedure. The item on the agenda is exhausted. I'm adjourned today's session. Next meeting tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
