ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please register. There are 135 MPs registered. We have a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] For the procedure please come in, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal today that the legislative activity of the Chamber continue to the point of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of the Internal Community Trade in Goods. I think this is important, and therefore I ask you to put this proposal to the vote. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u3	Let me get this straight. We start with point one, fixed, with the four bills concerning the Labour Code, and the next point that Mr. Karimanski proposes is to examine the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on Statistics of Internal Community Trade in Goods. Are there any other suggestions? Mr. Belev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that in the legislative programme for today enter also the point for the Draft Decision on the conversion of the faculty based in Veliko Tarnovo. This point is needed to pass as the beginning of the school year is approaching and the restructuring of the faculty should be done by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u5	Thank you, Professor Belev. Colleagues, are there any other proposals on the agenda and working time of the National Assembly? I won't. I put to the vote, first, Professor Belev's procedural proposal, as it is more comprehensive. Colleagues, we are voting on Professor Belev's proposal that the working time of the National Assembly be until the adoption of the fixed first point for today, as well as points 10 and 11 of the weekly programme, and then continue with parliamentary control to last three hours. Is that your offer, Mr. Belev? Yes, you do. Please, voting mode. Vote 196 MPs: 156 against 34, abstention 6. That's how the offer is accepted. Before we start with item one on the agenda, just one message. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by a new order amends the permission for the dispatch and use of an airplane to the French Republic and back by crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 10 July 2022, with entry No 47-203-09-73, and was made available to the Defence Commission. For the procedure Mr. Cholakov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u6	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Colleagues, may I ask for a procedure in relation to yesterday's vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, we made a decision or agreed between first and second readings to have five days for suggestions. Colleagues, can I most strongly ask that we vote again and accept the deadline to be 14 days? You understand how important this law is, you understand how many remarks have been made. Let's take a good look at it, let's think about it. Nothing is required right now for five days, it is Saturday, Sunday, until Tuesday I do not know who will make proposals. It seems a little frivolous to me that judicial reform is the way we're doing it. Let's be a little more responsible. Please, really, 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u7	Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for your feedback.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Given that yesterday the House expressed its opinion on what should happen, I think that the five-day period is quite sufficient. I understand that GERB and DPS did everything they could yesterday to slow this bill down, not to be voted on, not to be accepted, but I hope that all the others who still want something to happen in the direction of judicial reform and administrative service of the Euro-Professor Office, of course, are colleagues from the BSP, from the Resurrection, from the There is such a people, from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, not to support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u10	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u11	Colleagues, let's pass the vote and then... [[Noise and lines. National Representative Hamid Hamid wants the floor.]] All right, Mr. Hamid, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please do not allow here from this tribune failed political florists who have ruled with Borisov, and successfully, his staff in lockers, here to give morals. Yesterday's debate was entirely in substance, it was legal, and no one has tried to delay the adoption of any law at all. So don't let low-down liars from this tribune spread insults. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u13	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u14	Wait a minute, I'll give you the floor! Mr. Hamid! Mr. Hamid, for the first address to Mr. Ananiev, I wouldn't impose punishment on you, but for the second, I can't help but punish you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] This is not how we should address colleagues, whether... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to keep order in this room! Mr. Hamid, on the grounds of art. 155 I'm imposing a penalty on you for being responsible, with all due respect to you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Here you are, Mr. Karadaye. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I object to the imposed punishment and I propose that Miro Ivanov be punished because he allows from this tribune Ananiev to lie most brazenly and without a view. Yesterday's transcripts are a fact, and there's video footage. Where did Mr. Hamid lie from this tribune, pointing out that Ananiev was lying?! From this point of view, I object to the behaviour of the President and the President must now be punished because he encourages the lie of this tribune. This should not and cannot happen in the National Assembly of Bulgaria. How can you afford to encourage a lie?! I don't understand this thing! That this happens all the time! That yesterday, during a violation of the Rules of the National Assembly, you allowed yourself to indulge and again we just reminded you to read the Rules without making any remarks from the stands of the National Assembly and you trying to lie from here today. That's insolence! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u16	And thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The only thing I do is not tolerate a language of hatred and address from some MPs to others with abusive words, as stated in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u17	You tolerate lying! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u18	And Mr. Karadaye, I'm very sorry that you haven't memorized my name in seven months. It's Miroslav, my name is not Miro. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Alexander Ivanov for a procedure. You're giving up? Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Cholakov the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes regarding the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary to be 14 days. Vote 207 MPs: 94 against 110, abstention 3. That's why the offer isn't accepted. For procedure.. Dessislava Atanasova. You have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, my procedure is in the same sense. It is clear to everyone that for a five-day period, which expires on Tuesday, it is unacceptable and not serious to discuss and propose amendments between first and second readings. I call on you for a little reason to have this term for at least seven days. Therefore, I am making a procedural proposal that the period between the first and second reading of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary be seven days. I can share a lot of arguments with you, but I don't think it's necessary. If there is to be any consensus on this subject at least, you should support this proposal, because I think it is reasonable enough. I also hear some of the arguments from colleagues who are members of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and who are considering proposing a working group to discuss all the proposals received. This is a serious bill. As much as it may seem to someone that by Tuesday, that is, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, all the parliamentary groups are well considering their proposals, I think we should not be so light on this issue, and therefore I propose that the deadline be increased from five to seven days. In two days, you won't win much from the lack of debate, nor will you lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. In contrast, Peter Kullenski. Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we see GERB with all kinds of procedural moves trying to prevent the adoption of the Bill in the Chamber and at second reading within the next week. So my suggestion is to stay the term of five days. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Kullensky. I'm voting on the procedural proposal... In fact, Mrs. Atanasova, I cannot put it to the vote because under the Rules the deadline is seven days and the National Assembly has already decided to be five days. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You're asking me to cancel our decision. How do I put it to the vote? [[Radio.]] The National Assembly has already made a decision once.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u23	Please don't do this. It's not like that! Mr. Ivanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u24	Colleagues, we are continuing with item one of the agenda... [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor for procedure.]] For procedure you have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova, again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u25	Mr. Ivanov, thank you. I don't know what this coup d'état interpretation of the Rules is. Yes, the deadline, unless extended or shortened, is seven days. Yesterday he was cut short. Less than five minutes ago, the plenary rejected the proposal to extend it to 14 days. But another proposal has been made before the period of five days has passed, and in that sense you are obliged, Mr President, to put it to the vote. This is a time-limit procedure and there is no argument giving you the right to reject this proposal as inadmissible. Allow the Chamber to decide yes, it may reject it again and stay for five days. Of course, on Monday and Tuesday, when there are no plenary sessions, this period cannot be changed anymore. But to reject, essentially, my proposal for a procedural issue is unacceptable, and I think you know that very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u27	So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u28	Would you like a procedure, Mr. Karadayi?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u29	After the vote, I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u30	After the vote, let's see if there will be a vote. [[Happy tidings.]] Colleagues, I am voting on the procedural proposal to have peace in the Chamber, made by Mrs. Desislava Atanasova. Vote 210 MPs: 99, against 103, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor for procedure. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I apologize for calling you Miro. This is Miroslav's abridged name. I want to apologize to you. Along with that, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to provide yesterday's transcripts and videos by Wednesday and prepare yourself by Wednesday, not by not being aware, but by looking at them, and to motivate yourself where Mr. Hamid and what he has done wrong here from this tribune to be punished. Again, I urge you to tolerate the lie from this tribune. So my request is the transcripts, the videotapes, to see what Mr. Hamid lied from that tribune or was wrong, or what he did out of that tribune. When a person exposes the lie from this tribune, and it is about things that are true and they are in the transcripts and videos of the National Assembly, and for this thing he is being punished for that I do not know what to call it. If that's normal for you, it's not normal for me. In this regard, my request is because I made an objection to the punishment, transcripts and videos for Wednesday to be ready and to motivate your punishment, which you imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u32	Thank you for your apology, Mr. Karadayi. Mr. Hamid has the right under the Rules to challenge the sanction imposed. If he does, this will be considered by the Presidential Council. If the Conference of Presidents decides, it will be revoked. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I'll be familiar, Mr. Karadaye. I'll meet you. We move on to item one of the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. Four drafts we have, colleagues, in this point two bills by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, one of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs and one of the Council of Ministers. Reports came in from several committees. Who will present us the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report? Mr. Arabadzhiev, you have the floor as a committee to brief us on her report. Colleagues, just for a moment, if you please, there will be a procedure for admission. We'll give you time, Mr. Arabadjiev. The reports to be submitted should then be submitted to the Defence Committee and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u34	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. I'm putting it to the vote, colleagues, the procedural proposal for admission. 140 MPs voted: 133, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please introduce in this House the persons to whom we voted for access. Mr. Arabadzhiev, you have the floor to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present to you: ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-40, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022; A bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-47, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2022; A bill amending the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-58, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs of 25 May 2022; and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-202-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its meeting held on 6 July 2022 discussed and discussed the four draft laws. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivan Krastev, Deputy Minister, Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions, Ms. Nenko Salchev, State Expert in the Department of Labour Law and Working Conditions. Vanya Stoyneva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; and Mr. Todor Tomov from the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. The bills of Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs were presented by the MP Georgi Georgiev. According to the importer, the purpose of the first proposed bill is to grant additional paid leave to a parent with one or more living children up to the age of 18 years, one day for each child, but not more than 4 working days for each calendar year. This leave cannot be compensated by monetary compensation. This will enable the employee or worker to participate in the celebration of important events for the child. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy refrains from supporting the bill. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association believe that such a change in the Labour Code is not necessary. According to the opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the proposed changes are in the right direction. With the second bill, by analogy with art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is proposed that the Members of the National Assembly be on unpaid leave for the duration of their term of office as such, irrespective of the previous post held and employment. Upon expiry or early termination of the term of office within 15 days, they shall take up their former post. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill. At a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of 30 May 2022, the bill does not receive unanimous support from the social partners. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria supports the Bill. With the Bill of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, represented by the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva, is proposed the announcement on 24 May for a national holiday, which has so far been official. The reason for this proposal gives the mass participation of Bulgarian citizens in the solemn events of the holiday, as well as the influence of the Bulgarian alphabet, education and culture on the cultural development of the other Slavic peoples. The Ministry of Education and Science expresses principled support with regard to the proposed proposal and believes that it is in the interest of the Bulgarian society to take into account the love, enthusiasm and pride with which we celebrate 24 May. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy believes that the proposed change is of significant public interest, and this requires a broad public discussion with the participation of various public and scientific circles and terms. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria defines the proposal as unfounded and unconstitutional. The main objectives, which are set by the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by the Council of Ministers and presented by Deputy Minister Krastev, are: - promoting the security and predictability of the employment relationship by maintaining its flexibility and guaranteeing employment and social security rights by: regulating the employer's obligation to provide written information in any change in the employment relationship; providing an opportunity to set a test period according to the agreed duration of work; guaranteeing the right to work for employees, including another employer, while taking into account the need to protect the employer's commercial interests and prevent conflict of interest when working for more than one employer; creating transparency and clarity between the parties in the employment relationship and promoting predictable employment; obligation for the employer to acquaint the employee with the internal rules on salary; acquiring the right to use of paid annual leave after at least 4 months of service, instead of eight; recognition of professional qualifications for working hours, with all the rights of the employee or employee's salary, holidays and other; - improving opportunities for reconciliation of employment and family obligations by: regulating individual right of leave of up to 2 months to raise a child up to 8 years old by the father, with a guaranteed right to monetary compensation from state social security. It is intended to benefit from leave at once or in part, such as health insurance at the expense of the employer, increasing the employer or employee's capacity to adapt the work regime to his individual needs arising from his family duties, and that right can benefit workers and employees, parents of a child up to the age of 8, as well as those who take care of a family member or relatives in a straight line. The draft legislation introduces the requirements of Directive 2019/1152/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union and Directive 2019/1158/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between the professional and private life of parents and carers. The period of transposition of the Directives shall be 1 and 2 August 2022 respectively. The necessary financial resource for the payment of benefits for the use of parental leave up to 8 years of age by the father will be at the expense of the planned costs of short-term benefits with the State Social Security Budget Act for the relevant year. The Code of Social Security, the Health Insurance Act, the State Social Security Budget Act for 2022 and the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria are proposed. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 70 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the meeting held on 17 May, the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation did not achieve unanimous support under the Bill. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria supports the Bill by proposing that the two-month leave be in working days. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria considers that a number of requirements of Directive 2019/1158/EU have not been adopted and transferred into the Bulgarian legislation. The aim of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy team for partial transfer of norms which do not meet the requirements and spirit of the Directive is not accepted. In its written opinion, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria sets out its observations and makes a number of concrete proposals. The Bulgarian Industrial Association supports the Bill. The following opinions were formed in the following discussion: The first bill on granting additional leave to parents with children up to 18 years of age was supported by the representatives of the ARC, IHN and "Democratic Bulgaria" and the others abstained. The second bill was supported only by the importer, with the considerations of the other members of the Commission for non-support being that the rights of all electoral positions are not regulated, but only of the MPs. The third bill on changing the date of the National Holiday from March 3rd on May 24th was not supported by the representatives of the ITN, "We continue the Change" and "BSP for Bulgaria" because there is no public discussion and consensus on such an important issue. The fourth bill submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which introduced the requirements of the two directives in Bulgarian legislation, received full support. Upon conclusion of the discussion and the outcome vote: 1. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-40, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022. .. 4 votes for.. 16 votes abstention without votes..................................................................................................... 16 votes................................................................................................................................................. 2. Draft amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-47, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2022. 1 vote for. 11 votes abstention and 7 votes against. 3. Draft Law amending the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-58, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 25 May 2022. .. 10 votes for............. 6 votes for.................................................................................................................................................. and 5 votes.......................................................................................... 4. Draft amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-202-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. .. 21 votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Offers the National Assembly: 1. Not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-40, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022. 2. Not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-47, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2022. 3. Not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-58, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 25 May 2022. 4. To adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-202-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Colleagues, the Defence Committee report? Mr. Zafirov, are you going to introduce him? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u37	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 47-202-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022. At a meeting held on 23 June 2022, the Defence Committee examined that draft. Deputy Minister Yordan Bozhilov from the Ministry of Defence attended the meeting, who presented the Bill and the reasons for it. The Labour Code is the regulation governing employment relations between the employee and the employer. It provides that before entering into work between the employee or employee and the employer it is mandatory to conclude a written employment contract. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167a of the Labour Code is regulated individual right of parental leave until the age of 8 for both parents of the child and each of them is entitled to 6 months, of which 5 months can be transferred to the other parent. Currently, the legal framework does not provide for an individual right of the father/sonator of parental leave to raise a child with a guaranteed right to remuneration or compensation, as is the requirement of Directive 2019/1158/EU of the European Parliament. The new Directive 2019/1158/EU obliges Member States to ensure the individual right of child care leave to each parent for a period of four months, of which two months cannot be transferred to the other parent. The main objectives of the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Code are to promote the security and predictability of the employment relationship, while maintaining its flexibility and ensuring labour and social security rights, as well as to improve opportunities for reconciliation of employment and family obligations. The creation of art. 164c of the Labour Code, which regulates the individual right of leave to raise a child up to the age of 8 from the father/sonator, is guaranteed the right to monetary compensation from the state social security. By ensuring the individual right of the father/sonator to take leave to raise a child, the possibility of a balanced participation of the parents in taking care of the child in a family environment will be created. In order to enable servicemen in the event of death or serious mother's illness or when they take care of the child themselves, to take the new type of paid leave for raising a child up to the age of 8 under art. 164c of the Labour Code, the corresponding amendment in art. 203, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vice-President Blagovest Belev took part in the discussion from the members of the Defence Committee. Following the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 9 votes for....... without votes..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Mr. Chenchev, welcome to the Committee on Youth and Sports Report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code No 47 254-01-40, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 15 April 2022. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Tsveta Galunova, who explained in her statement that the objectives of this bill are to provide support to parents, guardians/producers for activities directly related to the needs of the child itself, through the introduction of a fair measure for both employees and employers themselves. The legislative change proposed by the importer is related to an amendment of art. 168 of the Labour Code, which amendment proposes an increase in the paid annual leave by one day for each child for a worker or employee with one or more living children up to the age of 18 years, allowing this leave to be used by the father in case he takes care of the children. In addition, the explicit condition in the current norm for this to be settled in a collective employment contract is removed. As grounds for the proposed change, the importer indicates that this leave is in the child's interest and from this point of view is unfair to refer to two or more and not to one or more children, and that it should be possible to benefit from the person taking care of the child, such as father, guardian or guardian. The proposed waiver of the obligation to settle this in a collective employment contract is linked to the unfair situation in which parents who work in undertakings without collective bargaining are placed, which deprives them of the possibility of taking advantage of this type of leave. The Commission is given the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Industrial Capital Association in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the Bill and, as an argument, points out all the legislative measures in force, as well as those to which the introduction is to be made, which ensure to a significant extent the rights of workers and employees taking care of children, ensuring different opportunities to combine personal and professional life for both mothers and fathers. The two employers' organisations disagree with the proposed amendments, stating that such a right to leave exists and now with the explicit condition of collective employment contract and the proposal to drop it is contrary to the extension of the scope of collective bargaining declared by all participants in the social dialogue. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions believes that the proposed amendments are in the right direction, but notes that the requirement under bills governing employment and social security relations has not been met to request an opinion from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Inna Ivanova, Iliana Zhekova and Deyan Petkov. All participants in the discussion agreed around the opinion that they did not see the need for the proposed change because, both with the measures in place and with the measures to be put in place in relation to the transposition of the Directive on the balance between the professional and private life of parents and carers, the rights of workers and employees taking care of children are ensured. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 1-vote vote held, the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code No 47-254-01-40, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Will there be statements by importer, colleagues? Mr. Georgiev, come in. Are you going to present both bills on behalf of your parliamentary group? Okay. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I will start with Law No 47-254-01-40, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, which is a change in the Labour Code, namely: art. 168, para. 1 acquires the following version: A worker or employee with one or more living children up to the age of 18 shall be entitled additionally for each child on one working day, but not more than four working days paid annual leave for each calendar year. This leave shall be granted where a worker or employee wishes and cannot be compensated by monetary compensation, except in the event of termination of employment powers. Alinea 3 in the same article acquires the following content: The current text of art. 168, which was established in the distant 1992, is provided that if collective bargaining is agreed, a worker or employee with two living children up to 18 years of age is entitled to two working days, and the worker or employee with three or more to 18 years of age shall be entitled to four working days paid leave for each calendar year. With this leave, the employee is given the opportunity to use, in connection with the holidays of the children, birthdays, sports events, the first day of school, to take him to kindergarten or in some cases extraordinaryly to be taken from kindergarten or from school, for example, when he gets sick. The text is very well foreseen, only there is one big problem. It has been described exactly.. collective labour negotiation must have, and, unfortunately, when this text was written in the distant 1992 already, then a large percentage of the enterprises in the state were state-owned. In fact, I would say that over 90% of the enterprises were state-owned and that they had collective labour negotiations, and when lawmakers then wrote this article -- 168 -- they intended this thing -- so that all employees or a large part of the employees who are parents could use the text under this article. Unfortunately, over time, collective bargaining is gradually starting to fade. Private sector development dramatically reduces collective bargaining. Currently, only 198 companies in the private sector and enterprises and around 1470 in the public sector have collective bargaining of 411 thousand companies. This makes about 350,000 workers and employees working in collective bargaining. Based on about 3 million people employed in the country, you understand what a small percentage this is and how few people can use art. 168. On top of that, it must be explicitly mentioned in the collective agreement that the clause is included to be able to benefit from this article. Thanks to this edit we offer, all workers and employees, whether working in the state or private sector, will be able to enjoy the privileges under art. 168. Also very important thing that we need to know and that we offer, as in the current text of art. 168 There is no possibility that the father, guardian or guardian will enjoy this privilege, we give this right by creating para. 3, which says exactly that fathers, as there are many parents, fathers, workers who raise their own children, are not even able to take part in collective bargaining, are not able to take this leave, which is extremely discriminatory. I think that each of you would support this proposal, although it comes from an age, because, if you think about it, there are many of your friends, relatives, acquaintances who will benefit from art. 168 if it is accepted in the current version that we are proposing. The Commission's own vote shows that there are not many arguments against it. On the contrary, all but four people who voted for our proposal, all others abstained, which shows how good it is. I hope that you will swallow, so to speak, your political biases and support our proposal at first reading. Eventually, if you have any suggestions at second reading, you can do so that we can take a closer look at things and settle in labour law art. 168. This is under the first bill, Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow the second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u42	Yeah, sure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u43	The second bill, which we propose to amend the Labour Code, No 47-254-01-47, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs is in connection with art. 161, where we propose the creation of a new para. 5: A worker or employee elected as a Member of the National Assembly shall be entitled to unpaid leave for the duration of his term of office. Upon expiry of the term of office as well as in cases of early termination, the worker or employee shall hold his former post within 15 days and, where he or she has been acquitted, he or she shall take up his or her previous post. With great amazement, we of the AGE group, when we became MPs, understood that this problem was not settled in our legislation, but rather only in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in art. 128 it is mentioned that MPs retain their post of employment or employment in public or municipal offices, or enterprises, companies with more than 50 per 100 state or municipal participation in capital, or the budget of organisations by taking unpaid leave until the end of their mandate. So here it was once again a discriminatory moment in our legislation. Firstly, the Labour Code does not mention at all what happens to MPs when they are elected to them. Secondly, only civil servants or those in municipal enterprises are allowed to take unpaid annual leave. Those who are in the private sector and come from the private sector only at the mercy of the employer, so to speak, can enjoy such unpaid leave. Even if he wants the worker elected as MPs to take unpaid leave, he can't take it. The employer must authorize, which is ridiculous. We at ARGUING believe that this proposal will bring together the situation of the MPs, regardless of where they come from the private or public sector to have the same power, that is, to be able to enjoy unpaid annual leave while they are elected as such, and then return to their place of employment naturally if they so wish. These are our proposals. We hope that you will support them and vote for, although there is a negative opinion of the committees. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ARGUING]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Cholakov, please come forward with an opinion on the importer of your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you know that we have tabled a small amendment to art. 154 of the Labour Code, para. 1, which says: the words "fest" are deleted, and after the word "booking" a dash is placed and the words "fest" is added, says the mansion we proposed. It is about the day 24 May being declared a national holiday. The motives for the project have been very sparingly formulated. I will not read them except, perhaps, the sentence: The day we declare our national holiday should not only unite, but also contain a symbolism that will pierce the public tissue through generations and educate certain values of understanding. I will allow myself, colleagues, beyond the motives to say a few words, because this is one of those values debates which determine the nature of the National Assembly and perhaps will matter not only today, not only in this term, but also in the following mandates. I don't know if you know there is a book by Stefan Gruev. Stefan Gruev was a Bulgarian politician who, after 9 September, emigrated, lived in Germany. In 1970 he wrote a book that says: "I will do the image. " This book has not been translated into Bulgarian, strangely why? In it, he analyzes four countries - Germany, France, England and Russia and describes, or presents, how the great nations build the image for themselves, how they imagine themselves and how through all their actions, if you will symbols and signs emit certain messages and build their own image. I don't know if you've ever wondered, and so in the thunder of the current we sometimes forget to ask ourselves the question, what image do we build for ourselves? Who is the image of Bulgaria, the image before us and the image we broadcast to the world? I think, fellow Members, that we are very sloppy about signs, which, by the way, sometimes enables strange ideas to shift, to acquire civility and to start at a spontaneous level to brainwash us without realizing it. I don't know if you remember the old ones remember, the young ones hardly remember this crest behind that stands, colleagues, do you remember that Bulgaria from 1990 to 1997 didn't have a state crest? Do you remember that thing? Seven years there was a debate about what to look like the coat of arms of Bulgaria. We could not reach consensus. I remember 1994, I was in Germany watching the World Cup. I was terribly sad that all national teams went out with the teams with the coat of arms of their country, the Bulgarian state didn't have a coat of arms then. Our national team, that great national team, came up with the emblem of the Bulgarian Football Union, because Bulgarian politicians could not reach consensus on what to look like the crest of Bulgaria - one lion, two lions should have, should there be a crown, should there not be a crown. It was crazy. It was a country that didn't want an image. She doesn't want any state symbols. She is unable to produce a state symbol. I also don't know if you remember and if you know that the name of Sofia's Central Square until recently, not until 10 years ago, was called Alexander Batenberg. Today, when we name our central square, we name it Alexander Batenberg. Thank God, 10 or 15 years ago Sofia's Municipal Council again with a very thrifty change removed the word Batenberg and remained Prince Alexander never named himself Battenberg. There is not a single official state document from the Third Bulgarian Kingdom? its dawn, in which Alexander, is called Batenberg, he is Alexander I, Prince of Bulgaria. He doesn't have a last name. His family is the Bulgarian people. That's the monarchic idea. 1990, however, when the renamings took place, a very strange person decided that the central square of the capital city of Bulgaria would be said, well, in the name of the first Bulgarian head of state after the Liberation, but unclear why Battenberg. This at a very high level, you understand that all the time it tells us: the first Bulgarian head of state is German, Alexander is German. He's German. The square of the capital is named after a German. Can you feel the wash? Do you feel how this affects your mind? In the same way we have always wondered and continue to wonder why the day 3 March was chosen for Bulgaria's national holiday. I don't want to enter into a historic discussion, although it is inevitable in this case, perhaps, and you will take a stand on the question, but what signal does March 3rd make? March 3rd signals that we are grateful to Russia, first of all. This is the absolute Condicious sine qua non for the day 3 March. On 3 March the Bulgarians thank the Russian brothers liberators. On 3 March always next to the Bulgarian flag must fly a Russian flag! That's it! It's incurable. This is the signal Bulgaria sends with its national holiday. We are grateful for a great power without which we could not. We couldn't, we couldn't! Without them, we can't. The second signal we are sending is San Stefanska Bulgaria. The map of San Stefanska Bulgaria always pops up on March 3rd. This map of San Stefanska Bulgaria, you know that for the Bulgarian history and for the Bulgarian people is a problem. It creates three national catastrophes. It is a very beautiful, very grand, very magnificent ideal, but it has led to three national catastrophes. And every time I see this map, I think about national catastrophes, not what it could have been, but what happened in the end. While Bulgaria's national holiday is March 3, we will send a signal that we are grateful to a great power without which we cannot [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov]] , we will throw snowballs at the Prime Minister, as colleagues say, there will be discussions, there will be disputes, the public will be divided and there will be no peace, there will be no peace. I just won't! And I'm wondering if someone didn't want it to be like that, didn't they?! This someone who said: 3 March, and our predecessors here, from this tribune, in the euphoria go, it is important, it is not 9 September, what is not 3 March, come San Stefan Bulgaria, Bulgaria on three seas, hurrah! For 30 years and how many years this has been a conflict, every year we are in conflict. And when we go along with that logic, what is our will to make an image? The images we have broadcast, whether they are the ones we want to broadcast, are based on what day is right, what day deserves to be the Bulgarian national holiday. And as we left, colleagues, by the method of exclusion, we came to the conclusion that behind each other of the possible dates, once again sees the shadow of a great power without which we cannot, unfortunately! Let's have this debate, think about it, the ferrets and the independence of Bulgaria may have been paid with money. September 6th, I'm from Plovdiv, but September 6th somehow strange why did it remain a regional holiday?! May 24th, I don't know if you're aware that May 24th is already starting to steal it from us?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u46	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u47	I'm coming. They're already tearing up May 24th. The great power said the Cyrillic woman came from Macedonian lands. The two euros of Slovakia have the image of Cyril and Methodius. What does Slovakia have to do with Cyril and Methodius? [[Heckling]] The Czech Republic has.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u48	The weather, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u49	I'm coming, I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, look, in order to change the name of Alexander Batenberg Square, it took three years at the municipal council. Three years! The first proposal was fiercely rejected, had to create a psychological climate and situation, had to pass a process of reflection in which the municipal council finally said: yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u50	Mr. Cholakov, I'm sorry, you have to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u51	Colleagues, I'm asking you to think. The purpose of my speech in this case is to create the cana of reflection, which will one day lead to that the image of the Bulgarian state in front of the world will be 24 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I asked Mr. Gazhev if he wanted to continue speaking so that there would be equality between all groups. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's an important topic. As Mr. Cholakov said, we, the people who tabled this bill, are aware that at the moment most probably and, unfortunately, no political consensus will be reached around it, but we have tabled it because we want to start a public debate and a political debate on something that we think is not just embarrassing but shameful for the modern Bulgarian state. It is shameful because we have turned our national holiday into a date that separates us, a date on which the Bulgarians fight against each other. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The date when... Mr. Chairman, can I not get yelled at by the House for talking nonsense? Whoever wants to go out on the stand, say so and so on. There are many people in Bulgaria who sincerely love Bulgaria, who are Bulgarian patriots, Bulgarian nationalists I am one, and who do not tolerate the fact that we have turned our national holiday into a date of worship to a foreign country; that on our national holiday we do not wave the Bulgarian flag, but we wave the Russian flag and that on our national holiday the Bulgarian Prime Minister is deeply disrespected by me Mr. Kiril Petkov was thrown with snowballs while speaking his speech. It's just that this date separates us. You like it or you don't like it, it's a fact. A few words about what May 24th is. May 24th is a real holiday. It's an off-the-book date, it's not something anyone, the state has put in people's minds, and they're walking, and they're holding fake pathetic speeches. This is a real holiday of the Bulgarians. A celebration where the Bulgarians take a flower, go to the monument of Cyril and Methodius, go to church and honor it. May 24th is an old holiday. It hasn't occurred in recent years, hasn't occurred since the Liberation. The first figures for the celebration of May 24 date well before the Liberation from the beginning of the XIX and even the end of the 18th century, and probably the holiday is several centuries older. May 24th is a date that unites. It unites us, and does not divide us into russophiles and russophobes, Eurooptimists and Eurosceptics and so on, and so forth it unites us. It is a holiday that is both Orthodox, because these are one of the great saints of Orthodoxy and equal apostles. This is a European holiday because Cyril and Methodius are declared patrons of Europe. It is a holiday that is Slavic, and in fact the great desire of a part, including the people in this hall not to break the connection with the eastern Slavic states during this holiday can be protected. It is a holiday that unites everyone, including which unites the Bulgarians in the historical land of Bulgaria, because historically this is a holiday uniting Preslav with Ohrid, and saints such as Kliment Ohridski, such as Naum Preslavski and so on are part of the celebration on 24 May. This is a holiday where we are not grateful to a foreign country, it is a holiday where we are proud not that someone has given us something, we are proud of ourselves, with the Bulgarians. May 24th is a holiday of the Bulgarian Golden Age. This is a celebration of Boris, Simeon and Peter of the rulers, of the kings of the Bulgarian Golden Age. To the brilliant Preslav civilization and that we have given something to the world, as Ivan Vazov says. Not that we have received anything from a great power, from a foreign emperor and so on, but that we have given! We do not worship the Russian emperor, but we honor the Bulgarian kings, the Bulgarian emperors, as they themselves were called. And last but not least, 24 May shows that we are an old country, that we are not created 1989, we are not created 1944, we are not created 1978. We were created in the 7th century, not just as one of the oldest countries in Europe, but as the oldest country in Europe. It is a holiday that sets the continuum between our medieval past, between our glorious past, the Renaissance during which it is celebrated as part of the struggle for emancipation and enlightenment of the Bulgarian people, and the modern age in which it continues to be the most beloved Bulgarian holiday. I know the geopolitical and all the arguments you have to defend March 3rd, and so on. But it's just... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just for a second. Imagine that we are just Bulgarians and are looking for this date behind which all of us, all of us in this country, in our home country Bulgaria will feel one. I have a problem with the way you celebrate March 3rd. Many Bulgarian patriots have a problem with the way it is celebrated 3 March. Many Bulgarian patriots have a problem with the way it is celebrated 3 March. Do you have a problem with the way you celebrate 24 May?! Isn't this the date that unites us, the date that doesn't humiliate anyone, the date that doesn't separate us, the date that deserves to be a national holiday of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. For a line, coworkers? Mr. Kanev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u55	I'll be very brief. Everything is great, but here I just want to inform you that 24 May is the official holiday of Russia. [[(Noise and lines. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mr. Georgiev for a second line to alternate the groups. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry, but that thing I just heard, I could barely stand it. So, we all love 24 May, only 3 March is the day Bulgaria is free of Turkish yoke. 500 years of slavery, let's not forget! And this is the day of the celebration of our freedom, no matter what great power has helped us. Nevertheless, it is a celebration of the entire Bulgarian people. And those who can be ashamed of this holiday are only and only the national traitors and throw them up on Shipka, at the top, with snowballs. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Kozlov asked for the third line, so I'll give it to him. Mr. Petkov, I could put you on the record if you'd like.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! May 24th is a wonderful holiday, but we are admitting a great injustice. Kliment Ohridski is the man who invented the Bulgarian alphabet, not Cyril and Methodius. Kliment Ohridski is a student of Cyril and Methodius. The Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius have created the verb, not the Bulgarian. And this is a historical injustice, in my opinion, to Kliment Ohridski. Kliment Ohridski created the Bulgarian alphabet. It should be called a climent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kozlov. Mr. Nikolov's doppelganger. You were thinking about the speech of colleague Kozlov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u61	A controversial point is that Kliment Ohridsky created the Cyrillic. The latest historical and archaeological studies related to the monastery in Ravna, with several other monasteries in Northeastern Bulgaria, show that it was rather established in this area, in the area of Pliska and Preslav and is related to the Preslav Book School. On the occasion of the thesis that 24 May is an official holiday in Russia, yes, 24 May is an official holiday in Russia, 24 May is an official holiday in Macedonia, 24 May is an official holiday in many countries that want in some way to attach to the Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage. But 24 May should be a national holiday of Bulgaria because it is the most important and big date in Bulgarian history and it unites us as opposed to the other date that separates us. Once again I will say: at the national holiday of one country, we cannot wave the flags of another country. This is terrible, it is heartbreaking, for the soul of every Bulgarian patriot! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u62	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. To speak Ivan Petkov. Colleagues, so we can alternate groups. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u63	Dear colleagues, Mr. Nikolov! Mr. Nikolov, may I speak to you since I haven't had a chance to make a line. I'm very surprised how in recent years we've been the only nation trying to change its history. I know you don't want March 3rd, and you want to wear American flags proudly on July 4th. I know that you want as much as you can be in the spirit of time and show how you are against Russia and everything else. But you, who spoke just now about that 24 May should be the official holiday, well, a colleague, if it wasn't March 3rd, what would we do on May 24th? I apologize to my colleagues here at the DPS not to replicate me, but we would then be celebrating the Turkish alphabet. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Isn't that right? If it weren't for our militia... [[Relations from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u64	Mr. Dilov, Mr. Dilov, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u65	...there wouldn't have been 24 May, Mr. Dilov, and you would now be a Turkish sultanate, nothing else. If it wasn't for the Russians, the ones Zahari Stoyanov described them, the ones Ivan Vazov described them, and our militias wouldn't exist at all. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Bikov. Then Mr. Dilov. Will there be a line from other groups? Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Petkov! This may really seem like some frivolous subject, but it's pretty serious, pretty deep, and I don't know why you went out on that stand. First of all, there are no Turkish letters. At the moment in Turkey they write in Latin, and at the time they are Arabic, you should know. Secondly, what you need to know is that you are obviously the product of the old educational system, and it is within secondary education, not higher education, you should know that 24 May, which then is 11 May, is celebrated, as Mr. Nikolov said at the beginning, from the end of XVIII and the beginning of XIX century. By the way, it is celebrated in Bulgaria in the Bulgarian lands, not in the Russian lands and not in any other such as a celebration of the letters, not just as a religious holiday. Take it a little more seriously, and this is my call to the BSP. Nobody wants to insult March 3rd. Third March, by the way, this should also be known purely ideologically to know it, 3 March is a nationalist holiday to know it is within the Third Bulgarian Kingdom after 1879. It is the main holiday, to know it. In this dark period according to your socialist ideology, which denies the nationalist ideology that is dominant before 9 September, this is the main holiday. Now you are in a position to defend the nationalist 9 September practically, and there is no harm in that. I respect 3 March as a holiday, it is an important date in Bulgaria, but it is not true that there would not be 24 May if there was not 3 March. On the contrary, if there was no May 24th, there wouldn't be March 3rd. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u68	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For a line? You're giving up, Mr. Dilov. Tsoncho Ganev, he's giving up for a line. Are there any other lines, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u69	Dear Mr. Bikov, perhaps we are all a bad product of the system, which you have been wondering for 30 years how to rotate and fasten with the right hand side with the SDS, and with GERB, you spit on them and now you are here and defending the interests that are far from the Bulgarian interests. Yes, May 24th, May 11th, where it took place in Plovdiv in my hometown, if you knew well, and if it wasn't for March 3rd and the Russians mostly Russian militias and Bulgarians, there would be nothing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Petkov. For a personal explanation, Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u71	Mr. Petkov, there are really obvious deficits in education. There are no Russian militias, there are Bulgarian militias and these are the Bulgarian volunteers who participated in the Russian-Turkish War, but we are on the way to delete the Bulgarian contribution in our own history, obviously at some point we will erase the Bulgarian militias. Of course March 3rd is a consequence of May 24th. The Bulgarian nation as today we have it as a nation of Slavonic, Orthodox and a nation of European, Bulgarian nationality. The Bulgarian ethnicity was created in the IXth century thanks to the case of Cyril and Methodius. Everything from there, including the Russian participation in the Bulgarian liberation and the Russian-Turkish War, is a consequence of this simply because we are, again I say, the oldest European state, we are one of the cultural centers of medieval Europe. We have created a culture that has outlived all those times, those rulers, those capitals, grew and created the prerequisites for the survival of the Bulgarian people. The Bulgarian people survived the V century because they had Bulgarian language because they had the Bulgarian alphabet because they had the Bulgarian saints because they had historical memory, so they rebelled against the Turks, so it was the national revolution, so Russia joined it, in its final phase with the Russo-Turkish War. Everything after the IXth century is a consequence of the case of Cyril and Methodius, and if we are a normal nation, if we are serious people here in this Parliament, we will honor this date which shows that we are not... look at the map of Europe. There are 40 countries in Europe, all of them have been created in the last 100 years and less, we are not such a country, there is no reason to behave like such a country. Let's be proud of who we are. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u73	First of all, I would like to say that it is very nasty, unworthy and unclean from this tribune and in the building of the Bulgarian Parliament to oppose the Bulgarian holidays, and it is unworthy, but very unworthy, nasty. We cannot comment at the moment on which is more important than the Bulgarian holidays, because each one of them, which is on the list of official holidays, and of course, mostly the national holiday, have their significance, have their place in the official holiday calendar and in the Bulgarian national memory. However, I would like to say this in respect of May 24th, because a false historical fact was mentioned here that at the beginning of the 19th century it had been noted, hardly at the end of the 18th century. The colleague Nikolov, I say colleague, because he is a historian, and a good historian, by the way, knows very well that this is not true. Maybe this is where political rhetoric peaks over historical memory. The first celebration of May 24 is in Plovdiv in 1851. Anyone can make this reference by Google knocking on the famous anti-corruption search engine, and see that the organizer of this first celebration is Nayden Gerov. Nayden Gerov, who a few years later became, to the horror of some people today, Russian vice-consul. And under his leadership is a large campaign to proclaim on 24 May as the main Bulgarian educational festival at that time in all the enslaved Bulgarian lands.................. in Macedonia, Thrace, Miziya, Dobrudja and Pomoravito. At that time Nayden Gerov, on top of all the horrors of some modern historians, and not only, but mostly politicians became and Russian subject is still a Russian vice-consul. So on the occasion of May 24 and its celebration is very unworthy when it comes to who is more important and who is the most important in our festive system, because to claim that March 3 divided the Bulgarian society is an invasion of Bulgarian national memory. No, March 3 unites the Bulgarian society because on this date every year we offer our flowers, wreaths and knee-bending tribute to those who died to live for Bulgaria to live. The truth is, if there wasn't a March 3rd, there wouldn't be anyone celebrating May 24th. It's a fact. It is also a fact that without 24 May, of course, figuratively speaking, without Bulgarian education there would be no Bulgarian national revolution, that is also true. I don't understand why we're arguing here what's first, the chicken or the egg, it's insane, it's insulting, it's unworthy, I'll say it again, if I have to say it again. Plus, we should not forget some other facts, and I will now mention them, because when we are going to talk about what divides and how divides, we can't help but mention that both on May 24th and against the Cyrillic woman for years there has been a very low and unclean campaign from the same circles that now want to remove March 3rd. This campaign is directed against Slavicism, against the idea that Bulgaria is a Slavic state. There are politicians and historians who claim that we are not Slavs that 24 May is a holiday that actually separates the Bulgarian nation. We had an ex-president who is still alive and well, God bless him, Peter Stoyanov is called, who wanted to remove the Cyrillic. Do you remember this thing because we remember it from the age? He wanted to introduce the Latina because according to this former President Petar Stoyanov, the Cyrillic woman was taking us away from the civilized world. Anything on that matter with anyone in this regard? These are things that are true. The truth is that against the Bulgarian national memory and against the Bulgarian history for years is conducted, if I have to use a modern terminology, a special operation that aims to replace the Bulgarian national memory, the Bulgarian national history and even, if you will, our national self-awareness, which claims that we are not Slavs, which claims that on 3 March we have not been freed, but we have been enslaved, which says all other things that you can think of, which is more measly and less dignified and which is more unclean than what. I am a historian and I know very well that history has different views, but there are also facts, and these facts are irrefutable and irrefutable. Everyone can interpret them as they please, but can't escape the truth after all, because in a neighbouring country, the other Bulgarian state on the Balkan Peninsula, Macedonia, there are people who, with arguments and facts, will prove to you that they do not speak Bulgarian and that King Samuel is a Macedonian king. Here is another example of the interpretation of history. Let's not do like our brothers in Macedonia, let's not pervert history, let's not make such attacks on it, because that's something that insults us as a people. This whole conversation, this whole argument is completely unnecessary. With all due respect to the importers, I think they're smart enough to realize the futility of what they're doing. It's obvious they have political reasons to do so. Maybe because they're fighting for some kind of electorate. It's not that way, gentlemen, it's not that way! With all due respect to you, I am not attacking you, and I think that this conversation should be as calm as possible without going into any further thoughts and passions, because this will truly divide the nation. Otherwise, on March 3rd, for years indeed, but these years have been counted since 2013, when the big campaign against Russia began in the world and in Europe in particular a campaign is being made against March 3rd, a fact. It explains what happened, how other people's flags were flying. It is a pity that we do not have a time machine to return in 1878 and to see how then the whole of Bulgaria is littered with these foreign flags, because under these foreign flags people have come to fight to have us and this is an irresistible fact. When someone says it was for imperial interests and I don't know what else, it's right to add the following to the other empires at the time also had their interests, and England did too. As a result of this Russian-Turkish war, it takes Cyprus. Only England sent its fleet to protect the Turkish Empire, not to protect the Bulgarians. Austro-Hungary also as a result of this Russian Turkish war takes Bosnia and Herzegovina that the Novomarket Sandjak too. Only she did not send her troops to protect the Bulgarians and fight for us, but sent them to occupy Bosnia and Novi market. Greece in this war wanted to fight in Turkey's war, this is a little known fact. There are Greek volunteers who gather to fight as soldiers in the Turkish army because they are afraid that Bulgaria will take not only Macedonia but also Thessaly. And three years later, the great powers, to appease their offspring, give South Thessaly really to Greece without firing a Greek rifle in the war. This little people know in our country because we our own history don't know that much about other people's. All this is to suggest that it is not just a matter of interest. To come to this war we have a period of one year, no one asks the question, if Russia was waiting for this moment to come to the straits, why didn't you do it right after the uprising? The uprising was suppressed on 1, 2, 3 May........................... ten days........................................................................... Why did you wait a year? I'm gonna tell you, and it's nice, and I'm not just saying it to you, I'm saying it to the people who are watching. One year Russia doesn't want to fight a war because it's not ready for this war. The king refuses to fight this war, he is the one who offers various types of peaceful conferences. On the Russian initiative, the Constantinople Conference is convened, and then the London Protocol is signed, again only with the idea that there should be no war, because for Russia the last war that he wages with Turkey ends badly and ends very badly. In the end, however, it is the Russian people who challenge the king, and with that I will finish telling you something you need to know. All over Russia, there are rallies that demand that the Russian king declare war to save the Slav brothers on the other side of the Danube. The leader of these rallies is Ivan Aksakov, whose name is today Aksakovo, he is the leader of the Slavic Committee. He allows himself to threaten the king personally at one of his meetings with him, saying: "If you don't lead us against the Turks, we will go ourselves and you will answer to our people. " "In the end Russia makes this war because it is no longer purely reputational but it is not ready and for this reason it barely wins the war, it barely wins the war with the cost of many mistakes, many heavy sacrifices. Do you know what the first thing that happens after March 3rd, colleagues? The king banished Ivan Aksakov and destroyed the Slavic Committee. The first manifestation of the civil society in Russia, the emerging civil society, is precisely this one, the huge, thousands of rallies at which the Russians want the Russian army to go and free the Bulgarians. It's not in our books anymore. It used to be. And now 145 years to talk that if you see, it is a shame to fly foreign flags and so on it is lousy, it is unworthy. And 24 May 24 May is one of our biggest celebrations and the symbol of the greatest civilisational contribution of the Bulgarian people in the world civilization. And we can't, and we shouldn't oppose them in any way. Don't do it! Don't do it! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Nikolov. [[Reply.]] To remind you that the discussion is on all submitted bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u75	Dear Mr. Kostadinov, I respect you as a historian, but I will allow myself two purely historical adjustments. The first is the earliest mention of the celebration on May 24 or on St. George's Day. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius, since he was then on 11 May in the old style, dates back to 1813, if I am not mistaken in an Armenian source...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u76	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u77	...and means a celebration of 1803 in Shumen...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u78	It's not in Shumen!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u79	...so it's about the beginning of the 19th century. The second correction, President Petar Stoyanov never asked for the replacement of the Cyrillic, this is some of these props, fairy news or whatever that have been going on for 20 years. There's no such thing as his statement, there's nothing like it. If I am not mistaken, everything went by an Austrian Bulgarian researcher who had written such an article and for some reason attributed it to Petar Stoyanov, so this is false. And now on the occasion of you saying political interests. There are no political interests in this, there are no political interests. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria:: How not, man!]] We importers, I am one of the importers of this proposal, we are united by one thing and it is the love and love of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian history, and our desire for the national holiday to unite all Bulgarians, not to argue about it and to be proud of it. That's the only motive. No political motives! On the contrary, electorally this proposal may not carry any positives, nor does anyone want it, nor does anyone... We introduce this topic because we love Bulgaria and because we want one of the symbols of Bulgaria to be the one to be proud of, as Mr. Cholakov gave the right example with the Bulgarian crest for 10 years we did not have a crest, we finally managed to achieve a nice crest to be proud of. We hope that we are starting an effort right now. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Which will lead us to have a national holiday that we're proud of.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? Here you go. For the third line, Tsoncho Ganev, to alternate the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u81	Mr. Kostadinov, a very good short lecture you gave on Bulgarian history. It is good for colleagues to learn from the facts, but let me tell you one more thing about Ivan Aksakov. You neglected to say which outfits, who equipped, who bought the weapons of the Bulgarian militias, who gave the flag and to say more about these Slavic committees, because apparently the concern of the Russian people was not only the king's will, it was not an imperial policy to take over the straits, but it was a real, sincere feeling in the Russian people, I say at that time, which really cared that the Slav brothers were to be released, the Slav brothers to have their religion, to confess their religion and to come out of the Ottoman Empire at that time. So, if possible, you have explained this very factually, but to explain to other colleagues to have more information on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u82	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Third line, Tsoncho Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u83	Madam President! Mr. Kostadinov, I completely disagree with you. I do not believe that this bill, this decision, which is tabled by one of the Euro-Atlantic parties in our parliament, is not a political act. On the contrary, it is entirely a political act for the redistribution of the already thinning and less declining Euro-Atlantic vote in our country, because in the end, GERB's goal with this bill is to divide even more and already the decline of the electorate of "Democratic Bulgaria" and if it can take one part of them to explain to them that they are even bigger Euro-Atlantics than they are. So what is currently being imported is a lousy thing for our history, it is shameful that we are discussing it from this tribune and in this hall, but in the end the right of GERB is to want to take the little remaining electorate of. [[Laughter and applause from rebirth.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Kostadinov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u85	Now, in a row. I begin first with what was said by the honourable Mr. Nikolov. You said Peter Stoyanov didn't say that. I'm not gonna say you're lying, you're just not really familiar. I suspect you're not lying. I will now read you the news of May 24, 2001, 21 years ago, from BTA. Enter the anti-corruption search engine Google, you will read it: The idea for the introduction of Latina in Bulgaria in parallel with Cyrillica is to be discussed much in Bulgarian society, President Petar Stoyanov said, quoted by BTA. Stoyanov made the statement after the ceremony of offering wreaths and flowers to the monument of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius before the People's Library on the occasion of the Day of Education and Culture. For Stoyanov 24 May.. notice, it is a holiday that gives rise to nostalgic feelings and recalls the school years...................................... nostalgic feelings! As for the other thing you said, it is not true, there is no celebration in Shumen, these new Armenian sources, because I know what you have read, it says that they were gagauzi. In Shumen there is no gagauzi to tell you, there is one on our side, in Varna. I don't know who invented this and where this forgery came from, but it's a modern forgery of Levski's letters, which he allegedly wrote to Botev threatening to cut him off something if he had brought in stinky Kazakh boots... Contemporary fictions, part of this special operation against Bulgarian history, which has been going on for 30 years, stubbornly over the past nine years. What was the next line, yes, you're right, Mr. Genov. I can't see you, I'm sorry. The truth is that the Bulgarian militia was not armed with the money of the Russian Empire, it was armed with voluntary sacrifices and now we can imagine how much money was spent to equip a 10,000th military unit, because that is the composition of the militia ultimately, even more than 10 thousand to the last days of the war goes to 12,000, and that is the money that Russian citizens collect among themselves. The other thing I'm going to use this case to tell you, I know you know it, but tell it to the others. It is a little known fact that the Russian Empire comes with a very small army on the Balkan Peninsula for two reasons. Firstly, because it is a war in which it does not make a complete mobilization, but only a partial mobilization. And he's doing a partial mobilization because they just don't have enough money. Russia at the time paid compensation to the mongrels because of the liberation of the serfs and the Russian budget was very busy, so Chancellor Gorchakov did not want to fight this war, he was the biggest opponent. Russia is fighting this war because of the Russian people. Do you know what kind of drama breaks when it becomes clear that only the southern war districts will be mobilized? There are people who the vast majority of the composition of this Russian army is from volunteers. Nearly 100% of the officers' staff and over 80% of the troops are volunteers because there is no full mobilization, there is partial and there is an opportunity to sign up and who does not join the army. So what sets us free is the Russian people's sense of solidarity and empathy for the suffering of the Bulgarian people. A unique moment that brings us closer together. And by the way, purely self-centered, let's think about whether we need to ruin our relationship with one of the five great powers in the world. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Or should we use this close relationship, thousands of years back in time in our favor? We could use them, and we should use them selfishly in our own interest, not in American interest...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u86	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u87	...let's cut the branch we're standing on. I'm finishing with what Mr. Ganev said. You misunderstood me, Mr. Ganev, from the beginning I repeat that GERB's proposal has political motives, there is no historical reason. I even see the inconvenience of my colleague Nikolov defending something that he himself knows is simply not right. Indeed, it is evident to them themselves that they are uncomfortable. It's entirely political. Thank you. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT. Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u88	Mr. Ademov, the stands are yours. Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] At the speeches? We're taking turns. Krasimir Valchev, Ivan Petkov, Lyuben Dilov, Mr. Simov, Angel Georgiev, Elisaveta Belobradova, Toma Bikov and now I am recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister! Mrs. Petkova, I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that the discussion is on four bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. I thank the MPs for the lectures they gave us here. For the problems of history there is a History Faculty, there is a Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, let us deal with political issues here, because what is being discussed on the topic of the National Festival, I want to call on everyone who has spoken so far and who will speak on this topic from now on to deal with art. 84, p. 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and then talk about these topics we are talking about. I want to legally and correctly ask them to deal with this text from the Constitution. I'll talk about other topics, I won't talk about it. With regard to the Importer Project, the Council of Ministers, because it is one of the interesting projects, the main objective of this bill is to promote predictability and security in the employment relationship, so that flexibility can be maintained with guaranteed labour and social rights. It is extremely important that the employment relationship be flexible, but that flexibility must be linked and linked to the preservation of both labour and social security rights. Because when this dynamic equilibrium is disturbed, there are always problems and always interferes in these cases The General Labour Inspection. In order not to get into these situations, we need to be aware that we need to maintain this flexibility. Next, what is part of the directives currently incorporated in Bulgarian legislation are related to improving the possibility of reconciliation of labour and family obligations. This is an old topic which in part of the Bulgarian labour law has found its place, but now additional solutions are added, which benefit workers and employees who have the opportunity to benefit from these rights. I would like to emphasise that, at first reading in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, we supported this bill, but I must tell you that between first and second reading we are ready to make proposals that will dispel some of the doubts that we believe are in the proposed texts. Some of these doubts, in our opinion, are found in the so-called supplementary employment contract with another employer. In the current legislation, there is an opportunity to conclude an additional employment contract, such as this additional employment contract, of course, will have to meet the conditions for a 12-hour interday holiday, 48-hour vacation between weeks and so on However, what is worrying, despite being part of the directive, is the ban only in the event of a conflict of interest and the protection of trade secrets. And now, because the term "secretary" does not have a legal definition either in the Commercial Law or in the Labour Code, it is extremely important that the employer in any way does not allow himself to abuse it, despite the fact that in the individual contract of employment there are two parties to the one side being the employer's, the other side being the employee's and the employee's. But we all know, officially or informally, the stronger party in the employment relationship is the employer, so there is no way to rule out this possibility and this option that the employer will not abuse what this trade secret is. I can give you an example that I just shared with Professor Mihailov. For example, a doctor who works in a hospital works with a group of medicines, with antibiotics, let's say, is it a business secret if he goes to another hospital? No one can tell because there's no definition. The point is to rule out any possibility of abuse on one or the other side. Next, some of the decisions proposed are in the right direction. For example, in current legislation when the employment contract was amended, the employer was obliged to inform the worker and the employee as soon as possible and no later than one month. Now this opportunity is granted before the change of employment contract, to the employment relationship. So this is a measure in the right direction and it deserves to be supported. There is another option.. the contract of employment with a period of testing. So far, this term could have been six months old, it is now proposed in cases where the contract of employment is fixed, within one year for example or less, that period will be reduced to one month. Here again, we must somehow make it possible to rule out the possibility that all contracts of employment can be concluded under this text of the Labour Code and to abuse that one contract of employment will be converted into a contract of employment within one year in order to benefit from this option for one month of probation. The next thing that is in the interests of all employers, the supplement that enables workers and employees to offer in writing to the employer when it comes to fixed-term contracts and part-time contracts to offer the employer the term contract or part-time contract in writing to switch into an eight-hour contract, for example, or into a permanent contract. This is the measure that is entirely in the direction of workers and employees, but it is worrying that the employer has to respond within a month. What the employer should answer, what arguments should he do, is not clearly written. Next, there's an employer's obligation... Now, this discussion is extremely delicate because when we entrust the employer with additional obligations, we risk increasing the so-called administrative burden. Employers are very sensitive about this subject, so I say it is a very thin balance between the interests of employer, workers and employees. Therefore, we must be very careful and very precise in the texts. The employer is obliged, I repeat, it is in the interests of the employees, to acquaint the worker and the employee with the internal rules for determining the salary. We owe the employer. If there are no such rules, I do not know how he will fulfill these obligations. Next, the employer is obliged to introduce the worker and the employee to all possibilities for termination of labour law, i.e....
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u90	Right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u91	...the employer becomes a consultant to the worker and the employee in terms of his rights. There are union organizations, if they are members of these organizations, there are enough arguments to support one or the other thesis. Because I risk, if I continue to speak on the subject of labour law, the government will accuse me of delaying the discussion, making it difficult, or in any way taking away from the time of the people's representation, I will try to be as brief as possible and to say a few words also in terms of the balanced participation of parents in raising children until the age of eight. This, the new leave being offered, respectively, the compensation in the Social Security Code, these two months of supplementary parental leave, the father's, so that until the age of eight the child can benefit from this opportunity. The unions, in the face of the CST, have a huge claim that discrimination is involved. Why doesn't a mother have the right to leave like this, why does only a father have the right to a two-month leave until the age of eight? At first glance, this option seems tempting, but given the fact that the mother of labour and social security legislation has the opportunity to use maternity leave for pregnancy and childbirth, the use of parental leave for up to two years, there is also the possibility of unpaid leave and so on, as if a lot of leave becomes available, which she has the right to take advantage of, and this in one way or another enters into a colony with the loss of qualification and so on, because if you separate two years and a few more months from the labour market, in any case dequalification will not be possible. With regard to what fellow Members of AGE are proposing. I am extremely amazed at the fact that only one bill is being spoken of. There are four bills, so I'll take a few words. With regard to the proposal in art. 161. Honourable Members of AGE, I welcome your efforts to protect the rights of MPs who work in the private sector, because other rights, as is known, are protected, but let us make sure that we protect all other rights of Bulgarian citizens. There are enough other instruments for the people's representative, the term of office, to find a place in the labour market. Let us not think so much about the MPs, but think about all the participants in the labour market. I think it would be a better approach. And something else. You propose that we settle the matter only with the MPs.. 240 people. Well, there are 265 mayors of municipalities, elected. What do we do with them? We don't tell them anything. What about the mayors of settlements? As far as I know, between four and five thousand are settlements with elected mayors. What do we do with them? To them we tell them that you deal with it as you see fit. So there are things that can hardly be supported in this proposal. As regards the leave of a worker or employee in art. 168, in current legislation there is an opportunity for collective bargaining. But do not forget that the instrument of collective bargaining allows even those who are not members of trade unions and employers' organisations to be in one way or another in a specific procedure linked to the collective agreement. But, again, the workers have enough rights under the Acting Labour Code, what I just said, so let's give them, moreover, this proposal in art. 161 is in the column paid leave and at the same time there is written, I do not know how this text got there, it is written that no monetary compensation is due. How it's paid leave, and there's no cash compensation, and I don't get it. We will therefore abstain from supporting these proposals. Thank you. I was supposed to talk a little bit, what happened...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. You've been very thorough. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ali. Second line supplier Mihaylov, third line Rado Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, in relation to what you said about the proposal of colleagues from the AGE, concerning art. 161 of the Labour Code, where they propose to create a new para. 5. First, Mr. Ademov, art. 128 of the current Rules of Procedure on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly govern the working and legal relations of the Members of the National Assembly before their election. Secondly, isn't it absurd when the business, when the Bulgarian citizens, when all are waiting for working decisions, responsible decisions from the National Assembly, in order to have some predictability, some security, as the private sector, the business is at the moment of bankruptcy, to deal with issues concerning the national representation. You very rightly said that this text is not discriminatory against those 265 mayors of municipalities and these 3163 mayors of town halls, which are also electoral positions which may have also been, have previously worked in the private sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Professor Mihailov for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u95	Thank you, Madam President. With the most friendly feelings here was Miro, now is Rado Cholakov, let's go into the bon tone with the full names. I am grateful to Dr. Ademov that he landed the discussion where it belongs, because here the pathetic words... I would like to say to those who spoke that the civil movement in Russia and the civil society arose shortly before the Russian-Turkish War. This was not the case at all, it arose, Mr. Kostadinov, during the Decabrist Movement and its event... The Decabrist Uprising, was 1825. 52 years before the Russo-Turkish War, if we're talking about history, but that's not our job here in the Labour Code. I have one question and it is very important in my opinion for the discussion that we are trying so unsuccessfully to conduct today under the Labour Code, which is very important. It has been said here by a parliamentary group chairman that this is even higher than the law of labour, and it is very important in our discussion. You have raised a very important question regarding § 3 for the second employment contract, because of the protection of trade secrecy and/or the prevention of conflict of interest. This is a problem that I would like you to interpret to us, since all those involved in employment relations are known to be involved in employment contracts in structures which have a common subject of activity, and this should have an instant placement of the employee concerned in conflict of interest, as he, when performing, enables the interest of one or another body in which he works. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. The next line is Mr. Cholakov's, please, with the deepest respect for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u97	Just to say, Mrs. Chairman, I have no problem with you calling me Rado Cholakov. After all, we are people, we do not need to be so tight, and this helps understand and good communication. Mr. Ademov, thank you for paying attention to the fact that we are still looking at three other bills besides the National Holiday Bill. I would really like to learn a little more about your opinion, because you have sparingly spoken about this topic for MPs who have been employees of private companies. I would like to say that in our own parliamentary group we have different opinions, discussions. There are colleagues who believe that this should not be perceived. I actually think it can be perceived. By the way, the proposals made by the Labour Code, I personally find them sympathetic and appropriate and I would support them, but that is my personal opinion. You will still agree that there is one obvious, how to say, violation of the principle in art. 6 of the Constitution, which does not allow privileges on grounds of public status. In this case, I have really always wondered about the civil servants who are elected as MPs, retain their place and go on unpaid leave, the employees in private companies, not. Given that 80% of the economy is private, this means that 20% of Bulgarian citizens are privileged in terms of their election as MPs, while the remaining 80% is not. Now, if there is an argument of conflict of interest and avoidance of conflict of interest, it should apply in both directions, because the civil servant is also hypothetically in conflict of interest, as long as he always, being a MP, will defend the ideas of the public service, which he has occupied and which he will borrow. So if we are talking about conflict of interest and possible lobbying, it can be lobbied not only for the benefit of a private economic entity, but also for the benefit of the public service that you previously occupied. It's theoretically possible. As for the conflict of interest, here too, I want to open a clamp. I have always been of the opinion that it is better to declare, declare and know the conflict of interest and not to hide people, to terminate employment contracts or to terminate any commercial relationship they have with certain private companies and to lie all the time that they have no interests, and to actually have interests. It's better to be honest. This, by the way, was the case with the Minister of Transport, which we all know has a private interest contrary to the interest of Bulgarian Post Offices, and we are now pretending that he has no conflict of interest. I'm graduating. So, I mean, I share both the mayors and the mayors of town halls, and, by the way, you're perfectly right that maybe the text should be expanded, but should we lightly reject this proposal of theirs, which I think is in line with art. 6 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, colleagues, for the lines. I'll do the three lines. They are generally related to the legal definition of the notions of a conflict of interest. Unfortunately, there is no such definition. This gives me the opportunity to abuse both on one side and on the other. Why am I saying this? It is true that these are parts of the directive and they need to find a place in the Bulgarian legislation, but it seems to me that the best way is in the Additional provision to sign, to define the legal definition of the.................................. by this text of the Law. Because very difficult in the Labour Code we can give a definition of the concept of secret. It has its great dimensions, especially in the dynamic changing world, so it is difficult to give in the Labour Code, but according to this text of the Law we can provide an Additional provision for both a conflict of interest. The only concern is that there will be no abuse in any way, so that the employer can keep the worker and the employee with him and not allow the free movement...............................that free movement is a value of the European Union. In terms of private companies. I understand the efforts of fellow Members of the AGE to resolve this issue, but if, for example, a municipal mayor, a mayor of a village falls into the same situation, why we do not defend his rights, and we think only of the MPs. That's what's disturbing. Right, we're talking in the proposed text. He can be changed. But unconditionally, to oblige the employer, I work in a law firm, I speak by heart, after the expiry of the term of office may not be the law firm...... how do we oblige this employer? Unconditionally, it seems to me that it is extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. There are 11 people scheduled for speeches so far. The next statement is by Krasimir Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, before me spoke respected fellow historians. My exhibition will be directed rather through the prism of upbringing to the future. The national holiday is at the heart of the national identity. Around him, not just us, but all the nations are building up the story of our national identity, the story of our belongings. This is a basic narrative that we tell children from the earliest childhood and which makes us a nation. We do not deny and should not deny 3 March, and here I fully solidarity with what Mr. Kostadinov said. We must continue to tell even more about our national liberation, the fight for national liberation, the continuation is the story of Unity and Independence. This is also the story of the love of motherland, bravery, fighting spirit, the strugglers for national liberation. Like I said, we have to tell it even louder. Do you know who's telling this story the loudest right now? The educational system tells it the most, and if it is not the educational system, some of the children will not hear it or at least they will not hear enough of this story. Yeah, and to us parents, it's due and we have to tell it. At the moment, our national identity and belonging are mostly due to the educational system. This account, of course, should not be built on the basis of hatred. However, we must continue to tell the other account of the spirituality that has preserved us over the centuries. At the heart of this account is the work of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and their disciples, but they are not the only ones. There is also a sequel to the Preslav, Tarnovo Book Schools; Paisiy and Sophronius; Vazov; Miladinov brothers; Evlogi and Hristo Georgiev, and to our contribution to world science as academician Najakov, John Atanasov and so on. This is the account of the meaning of the spiritual and faith that have preserved us, the account of our unique civilisational contribution, as highlighted in European and world civilization. This is her account of the power and light of knowledge. We must not oppose them. These two accounts need to be supplemented, as they are now complementary. They are our two main pillars of national identity. As was said, if there were no March 3rd, we wouldn't be celebrating May 24th. If we didn't have May 24th, we wouldn't have March 3rd. By the way, part of our national liberation fighters, such as Botev and Rakovski, are part of both stories. When we talk about the past, we must tell with the same passion and inspiration both stories. Teachers have to do it, we have to do it, the parents do it! But why does May 24 have to be a national holiday, and why do we want the story of our spirituality to be a little more dominant than the story of our national liberation? Because if today we want to preserve Bulgaria in the 21st century by looking into the future, what makes us more united as a nation are education, culture, spirituality, not the wars we are fighting. Again: we must not abandon, and we must speak even more strongly about our national liberation. But in the 21st century, the prosperity and self-esteem of nations will come from education and spirituality, not so much from the wars we wage. This is the century in which we miss and feel the lack of collective optimism for the future and 24 May is the day that most fills us with faith and optimism for the future. How do we want to walk toward bright beings in the 21st century? I am convinced that Bulgaria can be a prosperous and strong state with a harmonious society, happy people only if it bets on education, culture and spirituality. If, at the heart of our national identity, the story of the power of knowledge, spirituality and culture dominates, we can achieve that. And this is one of the effects of announcing or adopting 24 May for a national holiday. It will give us the chance to make education and culture lasting national priorities. If we accept 24 May as a national holiday, sooner or later we will establish education, culture and spirituality as national priorities. If we don't do it, the next generations will. Few nations have the privilege and honor of having a feast like May 24th. Few peoples can choose a holiday such as 24 May for a national holiday "the festival of spirituality. " We are by no means denying, yet I say the other story. Here we can remember the words of Dmitry Lichachev: You are one of the most ancient cultural nations in Europe and the world and the foreign conquerors could not defeat this country of spirit because in the defense of the Bulgarian people in a dense order were the language, writing and literature. Country of the Spirit. These words of academic Likhachev can be the heart of our story about a national identity with which the next generations will grow if today we approve the proposal 24 May to be a national holiday. Thank you. [[Replication by the National Representative Lyuben Dilov: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, you are talking about a story about a story that children, generations should know. Of course, 24 May should have it as a story, should be present in textbooks, should be celebrated and should be proud of this holiday. But what is the nature of the national holiday, not only in Bulgaria, but for all countries? Usually the national holidays of countries are Independence Day, Freedom Day, Republic Day. When is the third Bulgarian state created? It is not on 24 May, however great this holiday is for every Bulgarian. It was established on 3 March 1878. [[(Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov:]] That's when it's created. Officially, with the signing of the San Stefanian peace treaty, the third Bulgarian state is created, statehood continues in Bulgaria and ends the Russian-Turkish Liberation War. Then the state is created with all its characteristics as a state, as a separate international legal entity - with its authorities, with its army, with its borders, and it is natural and normal for 3 March to be a national holiday of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the third Bulgarian state. I don't know if that's what you're up to or what, March 3rd? Don't you have other points of support in any way to appear in this National Assembly? Do not strike on March 3rd and do not oppose it on May 24th! Both holidays are Bulgarian, both holidays are historical, rooted in the roots of Bulgarianity, of Bulgaria. Do not oppose them, but lift them up. What you are doing right now, do not teach the children of Bulgaria patriotism! Yeah, there's dilemmas around March 3rd, but there's also around May 24th, so rest assured. There are also Bulgarians who challenge great personalities like Levski, like Botev, like Vazov. There will always be some such individuals. Don't do this!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The second line is Plamen Nikolov, to alternate the group, and the third line is Prof. Mihaylov. The next speech is by Lyuben Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u105	Dear colleagues, what I think is that all public holidays should be unifying. That's their point, too. If they're not unifying, there's no point in them being. If we oppose one official holiday to another, he and national, it is disuniting. And you know what the motto of this building is, and we shouldn't allow disunity for anything in the world. In this sense, let us dedicate the Kesar's Caesar, and God's. One is a wonderful official, brightest, most native holiday, and the other is our national holiday. You know that a country with 1300 years of tradition is obviously such a formation that values traditions. Let us not do so that every 3 decades we change our national holiday. It just doesn't sound respectful for a country with the history of Bulgaria. Since we've heard a lot of historical excursions today, let's have a little philosophical from me. The only thing we lack and constantly lose and find in these 1,300 years is our freedom. For this period - everyone can calculate that the Bulgarian state has been much longer under someone else's yoke than free. So for us as a nation, national freedom should be the greatest value. In this sense, the greatest date in Bulgarian history, which puts an end to the darkest period in Bulgarian history, is March 3rd. Therefore 3 March 1878 is a symbol of the Bulgarian state, it is a national holiday and should remain such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Third line, Professor Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Valchev, I have listened with great respect to your good words, but I will join in what I have just said by my colleague from "There is such a people." All public holidays are laid deep within the soul of every Bulgarian. Even here we talked with Dr. Ademov that the Constitution is written interestingly: "Determining the official holidays" without celebrating the national holiday," that is, the Constitution has wisely compared the holidays. And now I address you as someone I deeply respect and have said it to you in the face outside this room and outside this tribune. Can you imagine what is happening at the moment, at an historically very difficult time for Bulgaria? Everyone says that Bulgaria has not experienced such a historic moment in decades.... a very severe geopolitical situation, a serious economic crisis, not to mention them all now, the colleagues in the Chamber are well enough at the height of the problems of the Bulgarian nation to understand them. And at this very moment, when we are trying to keep the rhythm of the nation that has returned, we can see from the data from the industry what a leap there is in the industry in the last year, we are beginning, apart from everything else in the Labour Code, to deal with the national holiday. That's not our job right now! Every Bulgarian falls to his knees in his soul always before 24 May, but now - I do not want to enter into this dispute, I will only tell you, as there are no former ministers, as Minister of Education you know, as we speak and sing here dithirams of education that at the moment - there is the Chairman of the Commission of Education, she told me almost in tears: over 400 schools this year in Bulgaria in the evaluation after 7th grade their success is slightly above 2.00, Mr. Valchev. This is the assessment of our education! [[Reply of the National Representative Krasimir Valchev.]] You'll talk to her! Whatever it is, it's a disaster, there's no other definition. And at this very moment, instead of making our efforts to look for solutions in education, to look for solutions in the economy, and today we are looking for solutions in the Labour Code, rather than throwing patriotic phrases, with lessons in history - this is where some Members of the Chamber rightly said, let us not do this. Here we are discussing the Labour Code something extremely important, and the other proposals deserve attention, should be carefully evaluated. But let's not play games. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Let us not play with what is greater in the soul of the Bulgarians. Every holiday is great for the Bulgarians and let, as my colleague said before me, I fully congratulate him - not to oppose them to our nation, she will not forgive us for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. For the coat, Mr. Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u109	Thank you. In fact, my statement also began with the fact that we should not oppose them, Professor Mihailov. Moreover, we need to tell the two stories even more strongly. Mr. Popov is right that the majority, the very large majority of the countries, have a national holiday associated with liberation, independence. But as I said, few people have this unique historical chance to celebrate a holiday like 24 May simply because few peoples have this unique civilisational contribution to the European and world civilization that we have. Few people have the chance to have a national holiday like May 24th. You mentioned, Professor Mihaylov, about these over 400 schools - yes, we have problems in the education system, we have a large number of children who have no one to tell them the story of national identity and national belonging at home, there are a large number of children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian. The education system is doing well, and if it isn't, the situation will be very different. In some cases, it is not working out, but I say again: the educational system is the one which mostly educates in national identity and national belonging. The chance to live in a good, harmonious, prosperous society is if education, culture and spirituality at all become lasting priorities. Unfortunately, the past decades have shown us that they are very easy to stay behind, and 24 May as a national holiday is a chance to make them permanent priorities and those 400 schools that you are talking about to be less. I don't deny everything you've said. If we look back, it is true that the countries have chosen mostly the holidays of independence. But if we want to look forward, if we want to go towards bright futures, I deeply believe that we can do it to the greatest extent if we do education, culture, spirituality lasting national priorities and what I propose and I am deeply convinced that it is one of the steps in this direction. More or less, this will happen if 24 May is a national holiday, it will become for Bulgaria a unique civilization marker, a sign, and the Cyrillic is a unique civilisational contribution of Bulgaria. So this is the chance to achieve it. Otherwise, should we change national holidays at 30 years of age, of course some, speaking of basic narratives, about basic institutions should be sustainable, but I repeat, both celebrations, both narratives have their place, their meaning. We chose 32 years ago one to be a little more dominant than the other. But if we were looking into the future, if we had to choose now, if we were hostages on the institutional path we've been through, as they say, maybe today we would have made another decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. To speak, Georgi Georgiev. [[Relations of the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Yeah, I'll tell you. Since there are already three MPs from GERB who have spoken, I will give the floor to Georgi Georgiev, then to Mr. Hristo Ivanov, if he wants, Ivan Chenchev, then we will go back to GERB. And Mr. Simov is even before Mr. Chenchev recorded - so understand each other, colleagues, in what order. Will Georgi Georgiev take a speech? [[Reply of National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Yes, Mr. Bikov there will be. Mr. Georgiev, only that your group has maybe a minute and a little, to keep it in mind as time. If it's not run out of lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be extremely brief. In connection with the statements here of Mr. Ali and Mr. Ademov from DPS for Art. 161. We at ARCHIVE are okay with them making proposals between first and second readings if our bill passes at first reading to make proposals to score. If you do not do them, we can make them so that the electoral positions of mayors of municipalities and small settlements such as villages can be inserted to regulate the electoral legislation in this direction towards people who become MPs, mayors of municipalities and small settlements. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a line to Mr. Georgiev about the Bill on Vacations. Bulgaria, we all know that it has been in a demographic disaster for many years, and I want to ask you: what does your bill have to do with this and will it help families as a good incentive to have birth rates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u114	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other lines? Mrs. Korcheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Georgiev, I also asked you this question within the Committee on Labour and Social Policy when we examined this bill in relation to your proposal that the Members of the National Assembly should have the right to receive unpaid leave. I asked you if you have made any assessment of how it would affect employers, as they should keep this place for these people, and I do not think that your proposal to expand to the other electoral posts is somehow fair to all the other workers. After all, the MPs and all electoral positions must be largely fair and more equal with the other working people, so I do not think that this proposal is productive of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Korcheva. Will there be a third line? No. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, in connection with your line I can say that the demographic policy of Bulgaria is an extremely important moment. We have talked many times about this topic in the Chamber and it has been mentioned about various laws that we have discussed. Yes, our bill and the proposal to smooth out art. 168, so to speak, is part of a grain of the whole picture that we should have, so to speak, a piece of the puzzle, of the whole demographic picture that we need to implement, and as legislative initiatives, and as changes in legislation, so that we can stimulate Bulgarian families and Bulgarian parents to create as many children as possible, because the situation in our country is critical. We die with over 70 thousand people a year, we slow down, we melt. This will be the end of the Bulgarian nation if we do not take serious measures. And our proposal is a part of the whole legislation that we need to develop in relation to the demographic picture in Bulgaria. About Mrs. Korcheva's attitude. Look, what you're saying about election positions is not a problem for employers, and I'll tell you why. Because we offer unpaid leave. This does not in any way interfere with employers. They can, in the legislation, settle this problem, always appoint another worker until the holder returns, carry out the relevant job and, after returning the holder, be released and again stand the worker who has been elected as the MP or possibly as the mayor if our proposal is inserted at second reading, the DPS proposal. So in this regard, there is no problem for employers to release and let election positions have unpaid leave, it is no problem for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. To speak, Mr. Hristo Ivanov. Would you like the word now, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the subject of the national holiday. Mr. Cholakov came out of the hall, but he made a very nice statement about the will for an image, referred to a good book. Indeed, the national holiday is an extremely important topic and I will say a few things. First of all, from the point of view of the matter, yes or no. I have no doubt that 24 May is a wonderful holiday that really has the potential to unite Bulgaria, not just to unite it, but to establish this unification of the ideal of enlightenment, of spirituality, which is extremely important for our country. Our country has been founded several times as a community of educational effort. And this is not just about trying to make schools or translating some worship books, it is about understanding and establishing national culture on understanding that everyone should make an effort to develop, that is, that is, that you have not been born perfect and wonderful, as now very often in modern culture seems necessary, but that you should develop that imperfection is a part of man's universe and that perfection is an ideal that we constantly have to pursue with modesty and understanding of our imperfections. This is a very important anthropological perspective and it is encoded in the 24th of May, in making it a national, unifying symbol. And this effort for this image, not just for some image, but for this image, the people that serves the ideal of their own continuous improvement from generation to generation, from decade to decade is a very important thing that is worth raising our children in it, but whether this debate is now, in this way, placed through the Labour Code, in a real election campaign, is a good example of an effort for an image, or is an understandable tactical move, but not particularly useful in terms of the need to unite and have the will to unite and for some common image. We abuse such topics with an increasingly light hand. We have a Law on Language, which is frankly imperfect. It's an important topic that just tosseses around to exploit, someone writes a red dot. I do not deny the effort of the people who have done it and launched it, but it is done in a way that cannot lead to consent. In the same way, we have addressed the topic of Macedonia, which, by the way, is related to the topic of May 24th. In the same way, we just use it as a ball to kick here on the field without much thought about the long-term consequences. The law of old capitals once again unthinkable, misplaced, something from here taken from there, plucked from there. There's no effort. And I'm listing these things because they're part of this image Mr. Cholakov talked about and a very nice accent gave the whole discussion or national image. Let me use this foreigner for nothing else, but because it actually connects us on this subject with the understanding that for us the national image is a key capital not only in the context of tourism, in the context of voters' trust, in the trust of our international partners with whom they are related and working here in this territory. Do they have a relationship and work with people who have roots and some idea of sustainability, or is it some kind of weed floating in the wind? Right now, that's what we all look like together. Unfortunately, this proposal, so done on a very important subject that requires public debate, does not contribute to the idea of sustainability and to some consistency. Opposing the two festivals that are being sought is not good. It's not good! I very much like May 24th, but I cannot deny March 3rd, because it is still one of the fundraising stones of the Bulgarian third statehood and we cannot just say: this is bad. Yes, there is throughout the tradition of celebrating this holiday, in his, so to speak, doctrine too great a staggering towards the role of Russia. That's a problem, but we can't give up on this moment in our history. We need a much more careful, man-loving discussion between us, a much longer time to be able to decide how to do the best of all these topics. Maybe we need a few national celebrations. We have September 6th, September 22nd, are they less loved, are they less important to us? They're not. We must somehow manage not to oppose them in the context of an ongoing campaign, another insane and pointless campaign, which we will enter and wonder what to throw at anymore, because we have nothing to say to the voters. We have produced nothing new as political content permanently here in these six months to go on a campaign now and tell them something new. Our old slogans, we're gonna take them out and we're gonna start throwing ourselves at them, now with March 3rd and May 24th, and we're gonna start doing that, too. That's not smart. I will vote in favour, our group will vote in conscience, but I think this proposal borders on abuse, although I support the need for such a discussion, but not in this way. And you know very well, fellow Members, that the way it is done in politics has its great meaning. Let us, if by any chance prevail in any sense and still manage to create viable governance in this Parliament, or in a subsequent parliament, make a committee to deal with all these issues in a systematic way. We need a careful national discussion on our image or national image. What are we saying, including our neighbours from northern Macedonia, what are we actually saying to them? Who are we, what do we have in common? How we deal with the fact that the Kremlin regime is increasingly engaged in turning the Slavic-Byzantine heritage, so to speak, into its own weapon, to possess it in a way that would justify the extreme imperialist will of the Kremlin at the moment. So the Slavic-Byzantine heritage, where this synthesis begins, right, but we need to discuss all these topics very carefully. Finally, perhaps in a separate national holiday or national holiday law, to build an overall well-thought out system of holidays that really all these messages can reconcile them, not to oppose them in a rather, frankly, quite opportunistic way, as we see at the moment. With respect to the need for this topic to be discussed, with a huge drink to all that means 24 May, all that is deeply encoded in Bulgaria to be a state of spirit, to be a country as an educational project, not a country of certain militant tribes or of a particular commercial oligarchy, as many countries have arisen, the educational effort is at the heart of Bulgaria. With great respect for this thing, my call is to have the will to image, to find a way and approach to discuss all the topics in a connected, man-loving way outside of each other's political conuncture and really build and build something, not just divide again. Many divisions have become, many divisions have taken place, and times are very difficult and will become more and more difficult, let's not make illusions. I think we all need to get a little more scared here in this room. Summer's letting us down, guys. Beautifully dripping Yankees all over Sofia let us down. Tough times are coming. The least we have to do in these times is try to get together a little bit, give up the easy opportunities to split up one more topic and cross one more topic and then the next day how exactly, how exactly are we going to make the important decisions that are ahead of us. So my call is: the subject is important, with respect to the need to discuss it. Let's discuss it in a better way, let's discuss it in some systematic way, not stabbed as one of three amendments to the Labour Code just like that, by the way, just so we can use it in a campaign. That's not how we do it if we want to do our job, and the job is important, so respectfully, I don't think that's the way to do it. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Denitsa Sacheva for the first line, Mr. Cholakov, Mr. Dilov. If there are no other groups, you'll have a line all three of you. Mrs. Sacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am taking a line because first I would like to categorically distinguish myself from what you are saying that our proposal that we have made is related to some campaign, that in some way we wanted to use it for division and so on. On the contrary, I will draw you to note that we submitted this proposal to us on 25 May, that is, immediately after 24 May. The collapse of the coalition and the possible going to elections is not even a fact yet, and the collapse of the coalition was on 8 June, that is, in no way can we bind this proposal to attempts at election campaign. On the contrary, the only thing we and all of our colleagues who are specific importers of this bill have to do with Bulgaria being built as a state of spirituality, a country for which speech and words are of great importance, a country that has distributed writing and culture to other peoples and other peoples are part of civilization thanks to this. So these were our arguments. There will always be a bad time and a bad time to have serious, important conversations. I strongly oppose that we are united solely by crises and problems. On the contrary, we are less and less in recent years uniting ourselves around causes, and this is a cause that can really only serve as a union until we are the politicians ourselves, we do not decide that we should do it exactly the opposite way. I would therefore like to say that we have clearly and in no way sought any political dividends, but, on the contrary, we want a very clear debate on what state we are, whether we are a state of spirituality, of speech, of writing, or we are a country where there should be only scandals, problems and crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. From the other parliamentary groups of lines? No. Mr. Cholakov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u123	Mr. Ivanov, you are perfectly right with your statement, in which I saw, however, all the time a logical contradiction. You've had a logical contradiction all along. You said: the topic is very important, the topic can really unite us, but it is politicized and not done this way, but it can unite us, but it is used for political opposition, but it can actually unite us. I suggest we get out of this contradiction somehow. It would have been enough to say: yes, colleagues, you are right, the subject is very important. It can unite us, you are putting it perfectly correctly, let us discuss it calmly, it will not be decided immediately, I will help convince other parliamentary groups, because I understand the importance of this issue. Come on, together slowly, slowly, step by step, let's do it. That's what you should have said. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u124	Why are you whispering?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u125	My line's on him. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] I'm talking to him. My line's on him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u126	Colleagues, out of place, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u127	One sentence. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm talking to Mr. Ivanov. You know who Friedrich Naumann is, don't you? Mr. Ivanov, you know who Friedrich Naumann is? Friedrich Nauman has a studio since 1916, dedicated to Bulgaria, it is also not translated into Bulgarian. By the way, Western authors have much more information about Bulgaria than we do ourselves. So, by the way, there is one place where he says: the Russian imperial policy always serves in Bulgaria with intrigue and discord between political parties. I'm paying attention. That's what a bystander said, and not just anyone! The discord between political parties is a hybrid war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Dilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, it is only natural that the conversation should be held in this part of the hall, because in the other parts of the hall we are well aware of their opinion. I think the whole debate is a simple question: what are we discussing? It's a national holiday! When does Bulgaria become a nation? When do Bulgarians become a nation? Are they a nation on March 3rd?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u131	On March 3rd, we become a nation, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u132	Country.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u133	No, it's a different country. We have had many Bulgarian countries. When do we become a nation? On March 3, Mr. Ivanov, there were three times less Bulgarians than those in space, if we count Delio Heidutin. No Bulgarian was involved in the signing of this law in March 3rd. No boundaries have been set. No country has ever come into existence. Here the BSP colleague said we had an army back then. The question is absolutely clear. And if we want to say what is the date that really unites us, which brings us out of the mermaid left, right, from the mermaid America, we're not on March 3rd, neither Russia nor America, we're on our own. The only thing from this territory, from these geniuses, came out and did so, because the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius are saints, patrons of Europe. They're not just our saints. Saints, patrons of Europe! How many European nations can say that thing? And why don't we have this conversation now? Which law should we take him to? Where should we say our national holiday? Yes, it is. It's this place now. Because it's outside the range of Russia, America, where we're likely to become more and more victims. Outside of the distribution even. "Yes, Bulgaria "... Cornelia Ninova. Because the suspicion that she's keeping you from voting for, will stay, there's no way you can get rid of that suspicion. This suspicion will remain! [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, to have coalition negotiations for a government, we'll stay, so let's postpone. That's what I meant. Now's the time. You're a lawyer, so tell me, which law should we discuss this in? Which one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u135	Gentlemen, I accept that since I have accused you of campaigning, I will receive... [[Relations from the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva.]] Yes, I apologize to Mrs. Sacheva. I accept that since I have accused you that this is part of an election campaign, it will come back to me with an accusation that I am oriented on the current coalition situation, but I really think that the subject is too important and that an effort should be made, as Mr. Cholakov said, and I think I can get out of what he advised me to say, what he somehow implicitly seems to admit that this is not enough debate, that what we are now doing in any way... It is not the question of whether the holiday can unite us. The question is the process of getting to one solution or another, or some hybrid solution. Because I think, actually, if we're looking for unity, this might be a possible pattern, but let's talk about it, let's hear more people, let's give society a chance to say more things. So you're right. That's what I said a while ago, and I'm saying it again, thank you for this, although a whisper, given opportunity. Let me tell you again, I think this should be the subject of a separate law, alone. All aspects of this celebration, marking all these holidays, their hierarchy, really who we put it where, because not just these two, let's try to avoid the opposition to these two celebrations. Because in San Stefano, when the contract was signed, no Bulgarian was present, but this contract became possible geopolitically only because of the will of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people then for self-existence and exit on the historic stage. And this will is absolutely based on the Bulgarian pristine effort. And that's why 24 May then, in an old style, it became such a unifying holiday even before there was a Bulgarian state, by the way. That's an argument, too. This holiday "May 24" exists and is imposed, and has become a country and nationalized before the Bulgarian state has it. That's why it could only have been reached by March 3rd. Because, so to speak, there are some factual states that are deserved by Bulgaria, and which the fact is that the celebration on 3 March now, as it is, overshadows this circumstance. All of this, however, requires a much deeper and careful discussion so that we can really get to the will to unite and image, and not just a conjunctural disunity on one subject. And I think we have an agreement here. Mr. Dilov, I'll vote for the sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, to speak, Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that in this room the tone is calm, which is usually rare. I don't want to scream out of the stands, but I do. Because we are inserting some dividing lines and we are talking about the national holiday of Bulgaria. And yes, as my colleagues have said: please do not hit the national holiday and especially on the 3rd of March. I wish this speech would start with "I am a Bulgarian child" because this should be like our Father to everyone here in this room and not only. But I'm not gonna do that either. I remember that when in my field on 3 March we celebrate the Arabonashka Pass and monument this date, there are also the ladies and gentlemen of GERB. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Why it's a national holiday, I think it's clear to everyone, and why you're twisting it is another matter. But it's a national holiday because we're free of five centuries of yoke! And this must be celebrated, as do all other normal countries. There are the ladies and gentlemen of GERB not only raise their heads before the heroism of the Bulgarian militias, and in general Bulgarian citizens who each have contributed something in this glorious time, but there they lower their heads, because we also talked about national flags, foreign flags, yes, and the Russian flag, and rightly, but yes, and to the Estonian flag, before the Finnish flag and before several other national flags. And you all know that! There, and not only there, are these people's bones. That's why there are foreign flags on our national holiday, because this is our freedom! And there won't be two opinions here at all! We heard about the heraldics a little while ago, we talked about the crests. I will tell the gentleman from GERB that yes, we did not have a national coat of arms on our flag for many years, but I do not know if you know, as an example was given even with the Bulgarian national football team that in the last two years the Bulgarian national football team played with a coat of arms on its chest, which is dedicated to the April Uprising. And if you open up now, you'll see the jerseys, write the teams of the national team, and you'll see what the crest is. And the crest, notice, which is dedicated, is actually made in memory of the April Uprising. It is the reborn symbol of the crest of King Ferdinand I. The new emblem represents a stand-up golden crowned lion, facing the right heraldic side. The shield is red with a characteristic silhouette and we are currently playing with this chest crest. This was a slight reference to the statement regarding the crest. Since there were history lessons here, however, which are not just for the House in fact, they are for everyone watching the sitting, of course... Even now, I also want to end up with I am Bulgarian, as I think we should all do, but let us not be hypocritical about the dates. Yes, even the Vatican celebrates May 24th. And you know that every year there are delegations and they are led once by the President, once by the Prime Minister, once by the President of the National Assembly. But the holidays can't make us celebrate them if we don't feel them. Of course, as a Bulgarian I feel 24 May because I was raised in this way. However, I also feel the freedom I have thanks to March 3rd. The freedom I have, all of us. So now that you're dividing this way, I don't think it's the least right thing to do, and this really incorrect proposal is clear why it was inserted. Finally, because many have quoted here, I will quote Remark just as I recall at the moment that says that everything you see in me is not mine, but yours. And everything I see in you is mine. And I see you're hitting on March 3rd. Do not do this, because you will get lost and that will be what the Bulgarian citizens will tell you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines, colleagues? Lyuben Dilov, come in. My fellow Members, when this cycle of lines and duvets is completed, I will also give half an hour's rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u139	Mr. Chenchev, there is no crest on the Bulgarian flag, at least according to the Constitution, the recording. Otherwise, it is a whole happiness that our footballers play with the coat of arms, although Ferdinand's, because they could play with the BSP's Peugeot, you remember, there was a lion from the Peugeot, which BSP had offered for a Bulgarian crest, or maybe they could continue to play with the incredible heraldic lion, climbed on a rotating tooth wheel. This is also our contribution to the world's heraldics. [[Heckling]] Think of it as a joke. I'm not saying that with a bad feeling, I'm laughing. Look, we really don't make politics with this! I'm paying attention to you again... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, I'm paying attention to you again. What is the word "national holiday"! Are we a March 3rd nation?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u140	Did you just think of that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u141	But now it's the law. Now it's here. We brought it in on May 25th, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u142	Ten years ago, you were a member of parliament again. Why didn't you suggest it? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u143	Colleagues, please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u144	May 25th, we brought it in! There was a powerful, quadruple ruling coalition. There was no election situation. You just got here. At 25, we filed this proposal. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We've proposed it. I've always suggested it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u145	Colleagues! Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u146	So we don't divide, really. Why break up? Who challenges March 3rd as a date? Who's arguing? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why don't we celebrate the peace treaty on March 3rd? Why shouldn't we celebrate it? Russia surrendered to Bulgaria and Turkey on March 3rd. Why shouldn't we celebrate it? It's a very important date. By the way, gentlemen of the Socialists, the possibility of the revolution being successful was it not for this peace treaty. Why don't you celebrate it? Beautiful March 3rd. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u147	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Chenchev. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dilov, thank you for the line. And thank you for the banter. I know you're following football, but if you were following him well, you'd know that wearing a coat of arms on your chest is self-conscious. Celebrating a holiday, celebrating, is also self-awareness, but duty. And the debt is there when your country after five centuries is released, thanks to the Bulgarian heroics, but with the help of other countries, of course, with the main merit of Russia. That is why I told you that your MPs everywhere on 3 March are in the events, on monuments and are bowing their heads before the Russian flag. If you don't want to do this, you'd better not be there, because otherwise it would be, to say the least, insincere. You have three governments, your parliamentary group has a majority of 12 years in the Bulgarian Parliament and you have not proposed this thing. You didn't propose it. And now at some point you're offering it, which, of course, is disintegration. Because if we issue a consultation, you will see what Bulgarian citizens think for 3 March and whether it should be a national holiday. It's okay, it's okay, but to reach the national holiday of Bulgaria and pour from here all kinds of dithirams for other dates! We know each other's dates. Bulgarian citizens know them. Because there were also talked about September 22nd, and there were many examples, but March 3rd each, such as March 3rd, every Bulgarian citizen, somehow by hand holds the flag and goes where it feels good that it should celebrate this date and is usually on one of the countless events and the countless places where there are bones, of course, of Bulgarian militias, but also of foreign soldiers who have defended and helped the liberation of Bulgaria. All this didn't even need to be debated here because it's one thing to have political debates, but when it comes to a national celebration of the country at an election time, I think the least is incorrect, and that's why we say that you divide the nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Guys, I'm giving you 30 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u150	Hey, guys. Sorry to keep you waiting. I'm resuming the hearing. Mr. Ananiev, for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a break on behalf of a parliamentary group for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u152	Colleagues, take a 20-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u153	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. For speech are recorded Thomas Bikov, Lyuben Dilov, Iliana Zhekova, Nastimir Ananiev, Alexander Simov and Professor Mihaylov. Anybody want to take the floor, guys? Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is clear that with the topic of national celebration so laid, it will be very difficult to discuss something else, but like never, for example, the debate was meaningful in the Chamber because we went through a historical view of the date, we went through the emotional view of who should be the holiday of Bulgaria. I think it's really working this time. We are concerned with an important topic, but what needs to be said is that in fact the way in which the theme of changing the holiday is put is deeply vicious, because once again, unfortunately, instead of seeking a way to unite Bulgarian citizens, one holiday opposes another. I therefore disagree with the thesis expressed in this House that there were two stories about Bulgaria, which had to go in parallel, the story for 24 May, and for 3 March is the same. This is the story of the Bulgarian destiny, the Bulgarian national state, its way in history, its successes, its failures, its dreams, its strategy. There are no two narratives, and that is why I believe that it is deeply immoral to oppose one another, because that is what happens. We listened to the assurance that there was no opposition, no one denies March 3rd, but there is one big question. GERB managed 12 years, why today on May 25th decided to put this topic on the table? Well, very clearly, because they use the political context, they use the war in Ukraine. But looking for modern events to solve historical problems is the other name of insanity just another name of insanity. We heard in this room and another thesis that someone had a problem celebrating March 3rd. What could be the problem with celebrating Bulgarian independence, celebrating our freedom from Turkish slavery? What could be the problem?! What do you mean you have a problem with March 3rd?! Does that mean you want to be a happy subject of the Ottoman Empire? Some inhabitant of the strategic depth. What could be the problem? March 3rd. There is a consensus that this is the date that gives the beginning of the modern Bulgarian state without anyone denying 24 May. No one can compare and oppose these two celebrations, and that is precisely why I think it is important, when we are discussing something so important, that we do not do it through some simple legislative change. This needs a much greater discussion, a much more serious placing of the problem, not playing with the elementary political passions of everyday life. You know, everyone here was quoting something, and I'm gonna quote it. I have always been most impressed by the famous anthem of the brothers Cyril and Methodius from the following phrase: The people do not fall where the knowledge lives. At the moment, we are witnessing a battle against knowledge, a battle against history, and this can no longer be tolerated, as this battle is fought, including through this proposal, that battle against knowledge, about who we are, where we came from, who helped us to be who we are. Let us not use such contexts, let us not use such important dates, let us not use them as part of the political struggle. This constant opposition, this politicizing of national holidays is something deeply perverse and vicious and must be stopped. And finally, the author of the phrase "People don't fall where knowledge lives." Stoyan Mihajlovski has a very interesting and intense life. He is one of the wrestlers against Ferdinand's sole regime, but at the end of his life he became a fascist, which is what his articles show. Please don't beat in this direction, don't try to play with emotions to perform your party orders. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Hey, guys, any lines? Mr. Nikolov, come in for a line. Will there be any other lines, colleagues? Not yet. Mr. Yordan Tsonev and Mrs. Desislava Trifonova have stated for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague Simov, I say this with the greatest respect because we are first fellow journalists and I believe that we both believe that the pen can be stronger than the weapon. We're all using a lot of quotes today. I think of a quote, attributed it to Napoleon during his exile on the island of St. Helena, who recalls and says: Many powerful rulers built strong empires and kingdoms based on the sword and they fell, and Christ... here I see the honourable Doctor Tsonev, and other fellow theologians, Rado Cholakov, a professor of canonical law, but Christ built his empire on the basis of love or rather his kingdom on the basis of love and it will be forever. I say this for a reason, because 24 May is that date on the calendar that does not divide the nation on ethnic or religious basis, namely it unites it around the love of education and culture, and I continue to believe that the march of the letters will be stronger than the march of the sword and the AK-47. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u157	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Simov, come on in. You have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am pleased to see that GERB is reinventing themselves as defenders of the state of the spirit, of this idea, formulated so well by Dmitry Lichachev, however, the problem is that we cannot, with an elementary parliamentary debate, make such a fundamental change, is simply not normal. It's not normal because it's a historical replacement, because I'm still going to say the most important thing, why now? Why now 12 years in any other conditions GERB had all the power in parliament to make the holiday 24 May national? Why didn't they do it now? Because now the political moment, the political context, is being used to continue the battle against Bulgarian history. I declare myself against it exactly, the story is as it is, the facts are what they are. Sorry, the American Marines didn't release us, the Russians released us. That's the truth, and we have to admit it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Now for the procedure, Mr. Tsonev asked before you, Mr. Dimitrov, so I'll give the floor to him first. I've already announced it. [[Radio.]] Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since morning, there has been a fundamental debate on CSR, but not exactly on the Code, but on national holiday and hence identity and so on. In this regard, I think it is good for Bulgarian citizens to watch this debate and listen to it, and therefore my procedure is to put to the vote a proposal for inclusion of Channel 1 cameras and transmission on BNR. [[Reply.]] If you want to do another procedure, please come in, mine can't be yours. Mine is Channel 1 and BNR. And in this regard, as I see that this House is empty before you put to the vote my procedural proposal, a name check, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues, of the procedure made? [[Reply.]] Of course, to turn on BNT 1 cameras and BNR microphones. I won't. Colleagues, while we're meeting in the hall, I'll give Mr. Martin Dimitrov the floor for procedure as well. Let's hear what his procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, I, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, would like a 30-minute break. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u163	Honourable Members, as many times as has happened in this National Assembly before the vote is called for a break from a group and it is given, I am giving 20 minutes of rest on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u164	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. Please take your seats to proceed to registration in connection with the upcoming vote on the procedure of Mr. Yordan Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't see it either, but the procedure has been done anyway and should be put to the vote. Honourable colleagues, please register! Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 46, para. The 4th sentence, first of all, in connection with a proposal, second, continues the sitting in the absence of a quorum in plenary. Accordingly, we will continue to hold discussions on the three bills on which the time has been extended today, and the vote on these bills will be on another day and in another plenary session, and then proceed to parliamentary control. We continue with item one of the agenda. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have four laws on the Labour Code, although I think three of them are quite interesting and should be held on them mostly. The one about the national holiday seemed to shift the focus from the other three bills. I personally believe that each generation has its own perspective, dynamics and understanding of history, so who will be the national holiday, whether 3 March, 24 May, 22 September, 6 September, this should decide society. Our society now, if this debate is held, there will probably be one opinion if this debate is held in 50 years, perhaps there will be another opinion. I personally am firm about opening the debate, and I think such a debate should be opened, but I would refrain today from deciding what exactly and how to do it. And I'll tell you why. For me, GERB's proposal, which was made, is entirely political, and it shows. If the proposal had been made on 24 May itself as an initiative of GERB, perhaps then there would have been some truth. They did it the next day on the 25th, postfactum introduced such a proposal, not on the very day to say: behold, this is our holiday, it must be. And I am sure that many people would support such a proposal for 24 May. But as I told you, we need to see why we have to choose between two dates, why not choose 6 September, which I think is also a very good, nice holiday. Also, September 22,... Independence is also a holiday that is important. We, as a parliamentary group, will give our symbolic vote for the proposal 24 May itself to be one of the options to be discussed, but we need a public debate. Personally, I even think it is nice when there is a majority of, for example, a party, such a bill to pass through the Council of Ministers, where there is a month, you know, public discussion, can take place different discussions, and not now with some floating majorities that are entirely focused on political dividends, everyone to stand up and defend their understanding, their truth. But our society is quite large and colorful. That is why I set the four dates that I think can rightly fight for the title of the festival and these are: 3 March, 24 May, 6 September and 22 September. And only in one debate can we decide who this holiday will be and the very decision to be made will receive maximum support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u166	And thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Hey, guys, any lines? Are you here for a line, Mr. Antonov? Here's your cue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Ananiev! I would very much agree with you, but what we should be thinking about right now is whether this debate should take place at the moment. To what extent is this a matter of urgency for state affairs, and is there no more important issues such as the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, such as the various legislative problems in the judiciary that should be resolved, such as the economic situation of the state, the energy crisis and so on, which still have more fundamental importance for our country at the moment than what date we choose for a national holiday? Without, of course, denigrating this debate, which has a symbolic meaning that matters to the Bulgarian people as such, to our nation and our country, and which should be subject to democratic debate not only in this House but also to our own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Are there any other lines? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ananiev? No. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Dilov, a statement? No. There are no other speeches, colleagues. I'm calling off the discussion. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE INTERNAL COMMUNITY TRADE WITH GOODS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. Adopted in first vote on 8 June 2022. [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]] Yes, I'll give you a chance, Mrs. Atanasova, a moment. Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Atanasova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u169	Mr President, I strongly question the decisions you make in holding this plenary session. You just announced that since there is no quorum in plenary, we will conclude the discussion of the bills concerning changes to the Labour Code and the vote will be another day. That's what you announced. If you believe that a next item, which is a second vote, should be voted on, please explain to me on what basis is a Commission meeting currently taking place in plenary? If you feel that this is also possible, please recheck the quorum with the computerised system in plenary and it is obvious that there is no quorum. There are here 20 people from your parliamentary group, five of ours, three-four of the Democratic Bulgaria, that is. You just rejected the direct transmission, colleagues, and the direct broadcast to see not only the plenary, but also the Bulgarian citizens how much you want to work. Where's your majority? Therefore, Mr President, I ask for a verification of the quorum with the computerised system before the second vote of the bill you have announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova, for this procedure. Your request is inadmissible because it is only possible to check the quorum once at the request of a parliamentary group under the Rules. So there is no way that what you want can happen. Secondly, I am extremely disappointed that your parliamentary group is not in the Chamber, does not participate in the registration and therefore we do not have a quorum to proceed with the votes. Given that we do not have a quorum to proceed with the votes, we will run out of discussion on all items on the agenda, as I announced earlier. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor to introduce us to the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u171	It's a second vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u172	Yeah. Mr. Karimansky, come in. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Which one exactly, Mrs. Kirova? How what? As there is a discussion on the first, so there is a discussion on the second vote. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u174	We have no votes, Mr. Karimansky, there is no way we can hold a vote. So there's no way you can do the clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u175	Now that's outrageous! Do you see what you're doing?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u176	Please, Mr. Karimansky, introduce us to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u177	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u178	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u179	Okay, procedure in the manner of conduct. Excuse me, Mr. Karimansky. We'll wait a while before we continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way it is. I note to you that what is happening today is not right for several reasons. The first and main.. the turning interpretation of the Rules, which we see at the moment, creates very dangerous precedents. Firstly, during a regular plenary session, a committee shall meet, which may require the attention and participation of many Members of the National Assembly. This is a perfectly logical explanation of why some of them are absent from the hall, first. Secondly, in the absence of a quorum, a hearing may be held, in the absence of a quorum there may be discussions on an open item already on the agenda! But you can't get all the items on the agenda in order and make a discussion with 10 or 15 MPs, and then schedule a vote! The meaning of the Rules of Procedure and of all the rules that we have voted on is to hear the opinions of all the Members of Parliament in this House when the bills are drawn up and voted on! [[Reply from.. We continue the Change.]] They're not here right now! It is therefore appropriate, once the first point is complete and the discussions on it, if none more, to call off the sitting and move on to parliamentary control. Everything else is just experiments and experiments. If there are gaps and inaccuracies in the Rules, they must be corrected, but do not allow situations like today. So I appeal to you, Mr President: let us put an end to the legislative part of the sitting and move on to parliamentary control simply because it is not right for 30 or 50 people in this House to hold a second vote on the bills that are to come as a second and third point without the participation of the other Members and, say, to have a simple vote on Wednesday. There will be those who have not taken consideration, and quite objectively had reason to be absent. At this point, there are no whole parliamentary groups. I suppose you notice it. Don't just focus on GERB's group. I know you need it. [[(Laughter) (We're continuing to change; the President is signaling that the time has run out)]] , but it's not important in this case even that, let's face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Wait a minute. I'll take care of the procedure. Nothing stops Mrs. Kirova, but absolutely nothing stops the MPs who want to participate in this discussion to be in the Chamber and to take account of the texts that will be discussed! Nothing at all! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] The Rules say one thing: there are two before you, Mr. Manev, and it is that we cannot hold votes. Accordingly, I will not vote. Mr. Minchev, do you want more procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u183	Please, you have the floor. Mr. Ananiev and then Mr. Manev for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to add, within the framework of my procedure, that your understanding of the continuation of today's sitting is absolutely correct and it is based quite correctly on the wording of art. 46, para. 4 of the Rules, which, in its second sentence, states that in the case of the continuation of the sitting which you have chosen to do, after it is established that there is no quorum, only parliamentary control and those concerned may be held in the Chamber. If the legislator's idea were simply to complete the specific point, this would be explicitly written down. However, as far as the text uses the plural of the terms of the sitting, there is no reason why the President of the Assembly should consider that only one point should be completed and the other, which, at an earlier stage of the sitting, were voted on simply to be passed. This would not be right on the part of the President of the sitting. The other thing I wanted to add is whether and why a committee is being held at the moment, this is already a matter of the committee itself, but not of the President of the Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u185	Thank you, Mr. Minchev. Mr. Ananiev, do you want the floor for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u186	Procedure! [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Manev? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u187	Mr. Chairman Ivanov, Mr. Minchev! Rules on the organization and activities of the National Assembly, which has the power of law, do not end until art. 46. You know very well that there is also art. 80, which regulates how laws are adopted at second reading: The National Assembly discusses and votes the bills of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section and text by text. In this sense, you can discuss first-reading bills and set the vote at another day or hour. A draft decision may be discussed and the vote may be fixed at another day or time when there is no quorum. But you can't break art. 80 Rules of Procedure! It's in the rules, Mr. Ananiev! You have no idea of the legal norms of how they function, and what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly mean! Once again, I repeat and regret that I have to say this to lawyers Mr. Ananiev cannot be any example to me of seeking arguments, but lawyers to abuse the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, provided that they know perfectly what the provision of art is. 80! Again, I say: The National Assembly is discussing and voting on the bills of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. This text is also in the Constitution, my dear! Yes, you absolutely do not believe that the Constitution has direct and direct effect! [[Reply: "Search! "]] You don't think the Rules have one! But it's a gross violation. If you do that, once again you will show one thing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u188	The weather, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u189	...Amateurs aren't just on the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u190	We got them out of there!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u191	Unfortunately, they're also in the National Assembly. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u192	Thank you for this procedure, Mrs. Atanasova, but also your reading of the text in art. 80 of the Rules of Procedure is not correct at all. [[Replication by MP Desislava Atanasova. A line from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] But Mr. Ananiev is ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the manner of conducting, yes, Mr. Chairman, I fully agree with you. And what Mrs. Atanasova said, of course, were some strange interpretations of hers. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80 people are talking about voting, not discussing. We don't mind voting tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u194	At second reading, how can you not have votes?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u195	...head by head and everything else that's written in the Rules. The discussion can be done today. Read art. 46, para. Four! So, the big guys, as you have gathered at GERB, do not need to interpret your rules. I will just remind you that I was also President of the Commission, which adopted these Rules. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] So take it, read it. Reading is understandable, it is not only reading, and there is no need to be with any interpretation of it as if you are a chief architect and you interpret ZUT the way you want it! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. (Replication by the National Representative Manoil Manev. Mr. Bikov, will we let him go before you do? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Because I am on vacation, we have a Commission as long as the sitting in plenary is going, this is also a violation in itself. In this sense, I would like to address you as much as you care, here at second reading we will get it out, if you want, let's do whatever we decide is more fun. We are, to tell you, on a 15-minute break, because the media left for a while and gave us, until they return, to go back and we will then continue there with this Commission. Now, if you could interpret to me I had a statement here on the previous point for the national holiday, I had even prepared it. I dropped it because I went upstairs to listen to the Attorney General while the discussion was over. Can you tell me where to be? You're the chairman I'll trust you with. Should I sit here at work, or should I go upstairs to work? Where should I go? Because I am a member of this Commission there are four people from GERB, there are other colleagues. Can you answer me this question: where do I stand to be in sync with your morality, because we cannot talk about rules? But for some morality, it is already forming in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u198	Morality, Mr. Bikov, is laid down in the Rules and the Rules explicitly state that the plenary sittings have priority, of course. The fact that you've been to a committee meeting is entirely your decision. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS. A line from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] You can, yes, Mr. Manev come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minchev, I would like you to pay attention to me because he was lawyering you here a moment ago that the responsibility for holding this notorious Commission was for the President of the Commission, not yours. That's not true. You are responsible for carrying out all the work of the National Assembly, first. Secondly, I am pleased that the President of the famous Commission is here, too, to hear any legal remarks, whatever legal opinions are made by this tribune, they do not matter at all today. In this regard, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you because you are very often involved in this topic in all media: the fall of this government and the dissolution of this National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u200	What's the procedure, Mr. Manev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u201	It's a procedure for you running a committee. And the suspension of legislative activity in the Chamber of the National Assembly in the Chamber of the National Assembly, was it not your biggest problem? [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I thought there were some scary laws we had to pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u202	The procedure, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u203	So where are they? Why do you allow the rules to be violated directly, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u204	Nothing's broken!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u205	...in which it is written that the committees cannot sit during a plenary session?! And you, when you wrote it and were chairman of this Commission, were the chairman of other committees, and there you have created some laws on road traffic, and now you have created the rules that work, Mr. Ananiev! So please don't make any comments, please! I appeal to the President and ask him: who is responsible for allowing and stimulating the violation of the Rules of Procedure directly, which expressly prohibits a committee from being held during a plenary session?! Who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u206	Thank you, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u207	Because Mr. Minchev said it wasn't you, it wasn't him, it was the chairman of the Commission. The President of the Commission is here to punish him if you have that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u208	Thank you, Mr. Manev. And I have a question for you: who is responsible for... [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] I didn't give you the floor, Mr. Manev. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Manev, step down from the stands, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u209	Then why are you asking me a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u210	Wait for me to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u211	Okay, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u212	Get off the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u213	Give me the question. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u214	Get off the stands. Mr. Manev, please take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u215	You're asking me a question, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u216	Sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u217	How can I answer that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u218	Please take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u219	Sit down, sit down, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u220	Please take your place, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u221	Will you ask me a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u222	Take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u223	Will you ask me a question? Don't you understand me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u224	Don't you understand me, Mr. Manev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u225	No, I don't understand. You want to ask me a question, how can I answer that question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u226	Do you know that the Rules of Procedure, after you do the procedure, I have the right to respond to your procedure within two minutes, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u227	Answer me, not ask me questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u228	Yeah, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u229	Come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u230	Take your seat, please! [[Replications of MP Radomir Cholakov.]] Yes, Mr. Cholakov, after I answer, is Mr. Kambarev's procedure. Mr. Manev, and I wonder who is responsible for those around 170 MPs who were not in the Chamber during the registration? Who is responsible for them?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u231	You. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u232	Because they sabotaged the legislative work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u233	There shouldn't be a committee!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u234	There are 17 MPs on the committee. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Do you make a difference from 170 and 17? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Kambarev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u235	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you in the manner of conduct, as I see that topics such as democracy are already beginning to be addressed here, when who is sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u236	And the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u237	Please remind who has remained in the hall of the honourable GERB that in democratic societies, if we start talking about democratic societies, they are only possible and only when people who act shamefully are ashamed of it. I would like to remind you that no, there are no problems with the fact that the sitting that we have opened was in the break that the National Assembly in this Chamber gave. This is not a precedent, this has happened many times. Mr. Chairman, please remind colleagues from GERB that these things will not happen if we all day here are not faced with some procedures that... The same thing happened upstairs while we were listening to Geshev. Before we begin the hearing of Mr. Geshev, we, 20 minutes again, according to an old tradition of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, listened to procedures. [[Noise and lines from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Mr. Chairman, please, when such remarks are made, remind us that there is a reason for us to sit until eleven o'clock in the evening...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u238	There's no reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u239	...there is a reason for committee meetings to overlap with plenary meetings when they were scheduled for recess and because of procedures they did not happen on vacation, there are reasons for everything and these reasons are rational and logical. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u240	And thank you, Mr. Kambarev. Mr. Cholakov has the floor, please. Mr. Stoilov, are you also on procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u241	I want to try to help Mr. Chairman, get out of this awkward situation. I think we can make sure the wolf is full and the lamb is whole. And thank God that a bill at second reading should be discussed at the moment, precisely at second reading, not at first. And I allow myself, colleagues, to read art. 80, para. 1...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u242	Dessie's reading it to us already!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u243	We will read it again: The National Assembly discusses and votes the bills of the second vote chapter by chapter, section by section or text by text. It is a debate and a vote. That is, there is a debate and a vote at the same time. What I think we can do right now is to start reading the first text of the second reading of the bill in question, to discuss the first text and, as soon as we get to the vote, to suspend the sitting. That's it, guys. That's what the Rules say, that's what we have to do, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u244	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Stoilov, please come in for a procedure. You don't want to. Are there any other procedures, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor for the report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u245	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on statistics on intra-Community trade in goods, No 47 202 01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022, adopted on the first vote on 8 June 2022. The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Act for Statistics of the Internal Community Trade in Goods (SG, No. (growling) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u246	You don't have to listen to GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u247	No, I don't listen to them, I can go on. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u248	Mr. Karimansky, there are procedures, let's hear them. Excuse me. Yes, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u249	Because I don't want to waste time. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is to discuss and vote on text. So we stop at the title of the Bill. I expect this House to rule on this vote and the discussion to be text-by-text, and then we will continue. And if there is therefore no quorum and there is no one to rule, let us do the discussion on the title of the Bill and leave the vote for the next working plenary day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u250	Okay, thank you, Mrs. Kirova. I am opening a discussion on the so-read texts and suggestions by Mr. Karimansky. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] Wait a minute. We're gonna find out any minute now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u251	Now what's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u252	Are you here for procedure, Mr. Svilensky? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u253	For a statement? Well, let's close the debate then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u254	It's a procedure. Why close the debate? There's no need to close the debate, I want to do the procedure. Mr. Chairman, as I understand it, the sitting continues in a state of lack of quorum. It goes on only with debates and speeches. There can be no votes because there were no MPs in the plenary, and this has been found, that is, from now on, what you can only do is give the floor for speeches and for reading the reports on the respective bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u255	We're at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u256	Votings on these issues must be scheduled on a separate day other than today, when the sitting has a quorum. This has been done more than once. Forty-second meeting, by the way, did it regularly because there was no quorum, so that's the practice, hence, colleagues, everything else...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u257	We've said it a hundred times!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u258	So, there is no case.. simply close the debates, move on to the next article and the votes are then made.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u259	They want separate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u260	It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u261	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u262	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other procedures or speeches, colleagues? Mr. Balachev, are you speaking? Come on in. Let's hear it for you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u263	Mr. Chairman, it is a tradition for you not to follow the law, not to mention the rules. For this reason, the President, whom you had chosen at the beginning of this National Assembly's work, went away for precisely these reasons. [[(Voices: "Eee! ") We are continuing the Change.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u264	Or some different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u265	He's next. It's the next letter of the alphabet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u266	Colleagues, please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u267	So, it works for you, unfortunately, the same thing. And I deeply regret that we did not really have any proposals to choose everyone, not by the procedure in which you stand in this chair, but by choosing another President of the National Assembly to introduce some order and compliance with the law. What happens here today is that you are trying with procedural grasps, the truth is not to go to the Legal Commission and not to consider the proposal for an extraordinary meeting of the Legal Commission and to look at the Election Code. If it is not clear to anyone, he needs to get into class and understand that all this pointless standing here, because neither debates properly nor has any benefit from what Karimanski will tell us one, basically, important law, and as far as art. 80, let me tell you, because here the President did not see where he sat, he talked about the so-called grammatical reading of the Law, because there is one, and we are categorical that art. 80 says: "Debate by text and vote. " - That is, after the debate immediately follows a vote. You can't skip the vote on § 1 to go to § 2. A hundred times to say it, the law is such a saying: reading the text, debates on it and voting. You can't go any further. Please, at least I hope you're a lawyer and you understand what this is about. Let's stop it. Let's get to the vote. If there is no quorum, and obviously such a quorum, you will not close the meeting, at least be able for the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to do something today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u268	Thank you, Mr. Balachev. For procedure, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, since a very serious discussion has been legally formed and because the Statistics Act is extremely important, we want 30 minutes of rest on behalf of a parliamentary group, to see if we can gather a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u270	Okay, Mr. Abrovsky. Fifteen minutes rest on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] How can there not be a meeting, colleagues?! Fifteen-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u271	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. Please take your seats! Are there any statements on the name of the bill? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. And we move on to the next item on the agenda. The next item on the agenda, fellow Members, is: PROJECT OF THE DECISION TO TRANSPARENT THE FACTION OF THE FACTION IN THE GRADE OF THE GRAND TERRITORY OF THE NATIONAL Military UNIVERSITY OF THE VAVERSITY OF THE LEVIANS AND OF THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S DELIVERATION OF THE HIGH FORCE OF THE VARIOUS TOTAL TEACHER WAS THE LEVIANS, THE HIGH MILK SCHOOL FOR ARTILERY AND THE PROVERSION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VAVISH AND THE HIGH WOMEN'S WOMEN'S SCHOOLS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A report came in from the Defence Committee. Is there anyone who can introduce him to us? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a draft decision for the conversion of the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and amending the decision of the National Assembly on the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military General School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Staff at the National Military University of Vasil Levski, No 47-202-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. At a meeting held on 21 April 2022, the Defence Committee examined that project. The project and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Defence Mr. Dragomir Zakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u273	Mr. Gazhev, one idea slower, because we are making it extremely difficult for the stenographers. Slow down, Mr. Gadget!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u274	I apologize. The translation of the Faculty of Generalvoyskovi, based in Veliko Tarnovo, of the National Military University of Vasil Levski, is offered on the basis of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency under Protocol No 7 of a meeting of the Accreditation Board held on 09 April 2020. After the closure of the Faculty of Aviation from the National Military University of Vasil Levski and the passage of his activities in the structure of the Higher School of Higher Education Georgy Benkovski, there are two faculties in the current structure of the National Military University of Vasil Levski, which does not comply with the standards and criteria for the name of the university and its functioning and existence. The Faculty of Generalovoiskovi in Veliko Tarnovo will be transformed into two faculties with names, respectively Security and Defense and Logistics and Technologies. In the two new main units of the university in Veliko Tarnovo will be conducted training of students in the specialty................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Both faculties have the necessary educational, technical, polygon base and infrastructure. The closure of the Faculty of Aviation from the composition of the National Military University of Vasil Levski is necessary to optimize the structure of the university in order to perform more fully and more qualitatively all the functions assigned to it and the activities involved. Following the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 15 votes in favour, without abstention, the Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to convert the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo to the National Military University of Vasil Levski and to amend the National Assembly's decision to convert the Higher Military General School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Arts and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education at the National Military University of Vasil Levski, No 47-202-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u275	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. There has been a report, colleagues, from the Committee on Education and Science. You're welcome to introduce us to the report. Ms. Nencheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u276	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to convert the faculty based in Veliko Tarnovo of Vasil Levski National Military University and to amend the decision of the National Assembly for the transformation of the Higher Military General Military School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education at the National Military University of Georghi Benkovski, No 47-202-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 30 June 2022, the Education and Science Committee examined a draft decision on the conversion of the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and amending the decision of the National Assembly on the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School of Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education of Georghi Benkovski at the National Military University of Vasil Levski, No 47-202-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022. The meeting of the Commission was attended by: Academician Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science, Lyubomir Yosifov, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs, Lydia Daskalova, Directorate of Legal Resources, and Plamen Slavov, Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Colonel Milen Filev, State Expert in the Department of Education and Qualification, Directorate of Human Resources Management in the Armed Forces, and Ms Milena Petrova. The transformation of the Faculty with its headquarters in Veliko Tarnovo of the National Military University of Vasil Levski is offered on the basis of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, according to Protocol No 7 of the meeting of the Accreditation Board held on 9 April 2020. After the closure of the Faculty of Aviation from the National Military University of Vasil Levski and the passage of his activities in the structure of the Higher School of Education Georghi Benkovski, there are two faculties in the current structure of the National Military University of Vasil Levski, which does not comply with the standards and criteria laid down under the Higher Education Act for the name "University" and its activities. The Draft Decision suggests that the Faculty with headquarters in Veliko Tarnovo should be converted into two faculties with names, respectively, Security and Defence. In the two new main units of the National Military University of Vasil Levski with the participation in Veliko Tarnovo will be held the training of students in the specialty of the specialty of military formations and management at tactical level........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The two faculties have the necessary educational, technical, polygon base and infrastructure. Point 2 of the Draft Decision explicitly envisions students and students from the converted faculty to continue their studies in the specialities in which they have been accepted in the Faculty of Security and Defence, or in the Faculty of Logistics and Technology, thus guaranteeing their rights as learners. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Education and Science Academician Denkov. He pointed out that the draft decision was agreed between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Defence and had a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Education and Science expressed principle support for the proposed draft decision, and the President of the Commission made proposals for editorial amendments aimed at clarifying the text of the draft decision, namely: ............................................... 3 point (s) to be amended as follows: .) (c).................................................................. 7 words are replaced by the Faculty of Security and Defence and the Faculty of Logistics and Technology with the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo, and the Faculty of Justice in Shumen. The Members of the National Assembly supported the proposed editorial amendments to be reflected in the text of the draft decision under consideration. As a result of the discussion and voting, the Committee on Education and Science with 20 votes in favour, without the opposition and abstention, supported in principle the draft decision on the conversion of the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and amending the decision of the National Assembly on the transformation of the Higher Military Military General School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Arts and Air Defence of Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Education of Georgy Benkovski and the National Military University of Vasil Levski, No 47-202-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2022, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision with the editorial amendments adopted by the Commission, as follows: Project! DECISION on the conversion of the faculty based in Veliko Tarnovo city of the National Military University of Vasil Levski and amending the decision of the National Assembly for the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School of Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov and the Higher School of Staff of Georgy Benkovski. at the National Military University of Vasil Levski (prom., SG No. 62, 2002; amended, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Art. 16, p. 8 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Transforms the Faculty with headquarters in Veliko Tarnovo of the National Military University of Vasil Levski, in the Faculty of Security and Defence and Faculty of Logistics and Technology with the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo. 2. Students and students from the converted faculty continue their studies in the specialties in which they were accepted, in the Faculty of Security and Defense and in the Faculty of Logistics and Technology. 3. In the decision of the National Assembly for the transformation of the Higher Military Military Military Military School Vasil Levski, the Higher Military School for Artillery and Air Defence Panayot Volov. and the Higher School of Military School Georgy Benkovski. at the National Military University Vasil Levski (prom., SG No. 62, 2002; amended, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No (a) c. 7 words are replaced by the Faculty of Security and Defence and the Faculty of Logistics and Technology with the Faculty of Veliko Tarnovo, and the Faculty of Justice in the town of Shumen. (b) in the Annex to this Decision, 4 t. 4 is repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u277	And thank you, Ms. Nencheva. I'm opening a discussion, colleagues. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, in accordance with the earlier vote, should continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will read to you, first of all, written answers to questions and questions for the period from 8 July 2022 to 14 July 2022. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Retirement Alexander Nikolov on questions from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva, Ivaylo Mirchev and four from Ilin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and resigned Minister Asen Vassilev for questions from the MPs Elisaveta Belobradova and Ilin Dimitrov; - Minister of Retire Atanas Atanasov of questions from the MPs Antoaneta Tsoneva, Ilin Dimitrov, Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev, and Hristinka Ivanova; - the resignation minister Bozidar Bojanov on two questions from the MP Blagovest Kirilov, one from Ilin Dimitrov and one from Snezanka Trayanska; - Minister of Retire Boyko Rashkov on questions from the MPs Zlatomira Mostrova, Ivaylo Mirchev, Ilin Dimitrov, Christian Vigenin and three from Hristo Terziyski. - Prime Minister Georgi Gokov of questions from the MPs Ilin Dimitrov and Silvi Kirilov Petrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Retirement Grozdan Karadjov on questions from the MPs Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev; as well as questions from Ilin Dimitrov; three questions from Dimitar Tashev; one question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Minister of Retire Daniel Lorre on six questions from the MP Desislava Trifonova; one question from Ivaylo Hristov; one from Ilin Dimitrov and one from Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov; - Prime Minister Dragomir Zakov for questions from Alexander Alexandrov and Ilin Dimitrov; - Minister of Retirement Ivanov Ivanov on two questions from the MP Alexander Dunchev; on a question from the MPs Alexander Dunchev and Inna Ivanova; on a question from Alexander Dunchev, Petar Milanov, Inna Ivanova, Denitsa Simeonova and Tsvetelina Zarkin; and two questions from Ilin Dimitrov, as well as one from Plamen Abrovski; - Prime Minister Kiril Petkov on a question from the MP Lyubomir Karimanski; - Minister of Retirement Nadezhda Yordanova on questions from the MPs Andrey Mihailov; three by Ilin Dimitrov and one by Martin Dimitrov, and Georgi Ganev; - Minister of Retire Nikolay Denkov on questions from the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev, Ilin Dimitrov and Plamen Nikolov; - Minister of Retire Nikolay Subev on a question from the National Representative Ilin Dimitrov; - Retirement Minister Radostin Vassilev to questions from Dimitar Tashev, Ilin Dimitrov, Inna Ivanova, Snezhana Apostolova and the MP Stanislav Balabanov; - retired minister Teodora Genchovska on two questions from Ilin Dimitrov; one from Kostadin Kostadinov; one from Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; one from Nikolai Drenchev; - Minister of Retirement Hristo Prodanov for questions from Dimitar Tashev two questions; two questions from Ilin Dimitrov and one from the National Representative Tanner Turkoglu. Dear colleagues, in today's parliamentary control they will not be able to take part because of an urgent commitment: Cornelia Ninova, Deputy Prime Minister of Economy and Industry and Minister of Economy and the resigning industry. The questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works in resignation Mr. Grozdan Karadjov will be written. Minister Nikolay Subev "Deputy Minister for Transport and Communications" also has an urgent commitment and will not be able to participate in today's control. A question to Alexander Nikolov is actually Mr. Gazhev has postponed this question. With regard to the Minister of Defence in Retirement Dragomir Zakov we also have a postponement of the matter by the MP Stoil Stoilov. Today, we should have parliamentary control with Mr. Boyko Rashkov, Minister of the Interior, who will answer 10 questions, as well as Minister Atanas Atanasov, who will answer two questions. Minister Rashkov is in the building, entering the hall. Good afternoon, Minister Rashkov. The first question is from the MP Stanislav Anastasov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on the election day. Mr. Anastasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u278	Next week!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u279	Okay. Dimitar Avramov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u280	Next week!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u281	It's also postponed. Mr. Letifov is not in the room either.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u282	Next week!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u283	Mr. Atalay?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u284	Next week!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u285	Identical. Ahmed Ahmedov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u286	Next week!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u287	Jevdet Chakarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u288	Next week! Mr. Weyselov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u289	Next week! [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u290	Minister Rashkov, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Unfortunately, we will not be able to hear any questions from you today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u291	I had prepared myself very carefully. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u292	Colleagues, two questions remain from the MPs Stefan Shilev and Ivan Totev to Minister Atanas Atanasov. [[Noise and lines.]] Are we waiting for the Minister or can we postpone next week because it is not certain whether Minister Atanasov will be able to come immediately, as he is the last in control? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u293	I've got two left. I'm putting off my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-15.u294	Mr. Shilev also postpones his questions for next week, colleagues. With this, parliamentary control has also ended the meeting for today. The next regular plenary session will be held next week on July 20th at 9.00 p.m. on an additional agenda. Colleagues, I'm adjourned. Have a good rest. [[PHONE RINGING]]
