ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Please register! Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u2	Here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u3	Thank you. Abort registration: 181 registered MPs in the hall and 1 online There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] A request has been made on the basis of art. 47, para. 7 from the parliamentary group of "We continue the Change" in connection with the fact that by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 19 February 2003, the date 10 March was announced as the Day of the Rescue of the Bulgarian Jews and the victims of the Holocaust and of the crimes against humanity. In today's plenary session to be honored with one-minute silence by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria The day of the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews, as well as the victims of the Holocaust and the crimes against humanity. Before we move on to the one-minute silence, I would like to say a few words to you too. Today, March 10, 2022, we celebrate the day of the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews and pay tribute to the victims of the Holocaust. We are proud to recall that 79 years ago the Bulgarian people performed a feat and saved their fellow Jews from the camps of death. In times of war, hatred and cruelty the Bulgarians oppose the policy of genocide and prove that democracy, tolerance, humanity and equality are values which confess independently of the time and the strong of the day. The failure of 50 thousand Jews to travel to the concentration camps is an unprecedented act in those days of terror and darkness. Today we have reason to point out the contribution of the MPs from the 25th ordinary National Assembly who signed the letter initiated by the sub-chairman of Parliament Dimitar Peshev, which oppose the deportation of the Bulgarian Jews. What they have done is part of the efforts of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, of prominent personalities, intellectuals, diplomats, of all layers of Bulgarian society. At the same time, we must also honor the memory of 11,000 Jews from Northern Greece and parts of the former Yugoslavia, then under factual German power that had not been saved. Their fate is a wound that hasn't healed. Today we have reason to say again that we will oppose all manifestations of xenophobia, racism, religious and ethnic hatred both in our country and everywhere in the world. The words of the letter of the 43 MPs have not lost their actuality: The honor of Bulgaria and its people is not only a matter of feeling, it is primarily an element of its policy. It is a political capital of the greatest value and is therefore not allowed to disperse it without justification, which would be shared by the entire people. Let's honor the memory with a minute's silence. [[Everyone gets up.]] Thank you! Please come in for an affidavit. [[Reply from the People's Representative Nikolina Angelkova.]] After the declaration I give you, Mrs. Angelkova, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of Resurrection with great concern takes into account the fact that the Bulgarian government and services have been silent for a week on the scandalous case in which a Bulgarian MP, president of a Bulgarian party and a parliamentary group, has been arrested in Ukraine and is forbidden for 10 years to enter the country. Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov visited the Bulgarians in Bolgrad, Ukraine, on March 4th this year. In the territory of Ukraine he is detained by military forces. He has been told that he is the president of a pro-Russian party and this information has been received from the Bulgarian services. In the military situation in Ukraine it was entirely possible for Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov to be arrested and even shot. Yesterday, from the National Assembly's stand of the ruling Canadian faction, we continue the Change...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u5	Mrs. Guncheva, no such qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u6	...said that Dr. Kostadin Kostadinov could be a threat to national security. Yes, it is a threat, but not to national security, but to national traitors. The Bulgarian services are subordinate to the Council of Ministers and the respective ministers. It is extremely disturbing that the same can willingly provide such false information to the services and to a country in which a war is being waged, with the clear awareness that such information could also cause the death of a Bulgarian MP. It is even more disturbing if this happened on an order to the services for Dr. Kostadinov to be discredited and no longer be able to visit the Bulgarians in Ukraine and even be killed in the martial law in which this state is located. These actions by the Ukrainian authorities and, above all, the information that the Bulgarian services have provided false information to the Ukrainian services, which could put the lives of Bulgarian MPs in danger, endanger our national security and should be investigated with all the strictness of the law. Resurrection insists that the competent Bulgarian services................. the State Agency.................................................................................... To investigate and provide information also who ordered the provision of this information to the Ukrainian authorities and for what purpose? It is extremely humiliating for Bulgaria to transmit Bulgarian citizens to a foreign country, whether supported by the American masters of the Bulgarian government...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u7	Mrs. Guncheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u8	... By doing so, the services and the one who ordered them to provide the information not only put the lives of a Bulgarian citizen and a national representative in jeopardy, but also become national traitors because no country betrays its own, unless it is a country colony. That is why the parliamentary group of ARCHIVER for Bulgaria's national security and the breakthroughs in the services and security insists on the following: 1. To investigate the members of the Council of Ministers for their contacts and relations with foreign embassies..........................., Russian, Turkish, Israeli and others, and in particular to investigate who, when and why from the members of the Council of Ministers went to the American, Russian, Turkish or any other embassy? Who attended the talks? What were the topics and did they transmit sensitive information and state secrets there? 2. To investigate whether foreign ambassadors had an impact on the appointments to the Bulgarian offices, government or other institutions and whether they had an impact on Bulgaria's foreign policy? 3. To investigate the relationship of politicians from the ruling coalition for relations and dependence on foreign foundations, as well as their relations with America for Bulgaria and other foreign foundations and corporations, such as dependence would violate their obligations as Bulgarian MPs and members of the Council of Ministers. 4. To investigate whether there are cases of Bulgarian intelligence and services to report to foreign embassies information collected from them and related to Bulgarian citizens. 5. To be provided by the services a list of all MPs who received money or worked for foreign foundations and organizations, whether American, Russian, Turkish, Israeli or others. We recall that treason is a crime not only by the Penal Code, but a disgrace to all who have allowed it. For years the Bulgarian state has been governed in the interests of foreign countries and not in the interests of the Bulgarian people. State policy today in Bulgaria is determined by the American Embassy and not by the Bulgarian National Assembly. It is high time for this national betrayal to be put to an end. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u9	Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you again in connection with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u11	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u12	In fact, I do not know if it is joyous that I am not the only one complaining that the ministers do not answer the questions I have asked as part of the opposition, but also yesterday in his interview Mr. Alexander Dunchev from For this reason, according to Dunchev, this minister is part of the backstage. I want to ask you, and I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u13	Are you asking me on behalf of Mr. Dunchev now?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u14	No, no, on my behalf. I would like to ask you: that the Minister of Transport Nikolay Sabev refuses to answer the questions I have asked for a third week in a row, especially in relation to the widely advertised Sofia flight, including to distant destinations, if I quote the Minister of Transport, will the state subsidise these flights, on what grounds, why only one chosen company, when will they start? I think this minister owes answers to all citizens and goes beyond the minister's attitude towards the MPs. Boyko Rashkov is not responding to the DPS...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u15	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u16	... Subev isn't answering me... [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u17	And you'll tell yourself, clearly, yes, but I'll tell Mrs. Angelkova too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u18	...Mr. Dunchev and he does not receive answers from Ivan Ivanov. I think we should all have read the Constitution in art. 90...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u19	Your time is up, Mrs. Angelkova. We get it!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u20	Ten seconds. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 of the Constitution is clearly written that MPs have the right to ask parliamentary questions and questions and ministers are obliged to answer them. What do you mean by being indebted to them and that you make a commitment to me every day...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u21	Yeah, if he doesn't answer today, we'll call him to explain as he is by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u22	...so you can answer me, and you're still clearly part of this backstage thing that I wouldn't want to believe in. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u23	Thank you, too. If he doesn't answer today, we'll call him, as he is by the book, to explain it. We move on to item one of the agenda for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVESTATION OF EXPENSIONS. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation has come in. Mr. Dimitrov, are you going to introduce us to the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First, procedure for admission to the hall on the grounds of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the Ministry of Innovation and Growth of Mrs. Desislava Boneva Deputy Minister, and by the Ministry of Economy and Industry of Mr. Dimitar Danchev Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. We vote access to the hall of the persons referred to by Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u27	Vote in this House 159 MPs and 1 online " 160," voted for 149 MPs and 1 online "150" against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u28	Report on a bill amending the Investment Promotion Act, No 47-254-01-7, submitted by Petar Nikolaev Kulenski, Stoyu Teodorov Stoev, Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and Andrey Nikolaev Mihailov on 19 January 2022, adopted at the first vote on 10 February 2022. The Act for the amendment of the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: The Act for amendment and supplement of the Investment Promotion Act. Proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev. On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall accept the proposal as admissible and shall support it in principle. Proposal from the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Zhecho Stankov and Desislava Trifonova. Mr President, colleagues, in the Commission, this proposal is also accepted as admissible, but it is written that it is generally supported by this proposal. 1 letter (b). It is more correct to assume that it is not supported in any part. Therefore, I will read it all and ask it to be voted in whole because it is virtually contrary to the other adopted proposal, and in this situation we cannot even, in principle, accept it in part. [[Heckling]] Yeah. So I'll read it all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u29	All right, read it all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u30	Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Ivanov and group: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a The following amendments shall be made: 1. 1. In para. 10 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in the main text, the words (b) c. 1 the words the single owner of capital and written consent by the Minister of Economy shall be replaced by the owner of the capital and written consent by the Minister of Innovation and Growth or the General Assembly. (c) c. 2 the words "the single owner of the capital' shall be replaced by the owner of the capital or the general assembly. 1. 2. Paragraph 11 is amended as follows: For the purposes of the Public Enterprise Act, the public undertakings may lease their own property directly after an assessment by an independent valuer and permission by the owner of the capital or general assembly for priority investment projects under art. 22f. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22g, para. 2 the words "single companies with state or municipal participation" shall be replaced by "Public undertakings within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act." On the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall adopt the proposal as admissible. It is written here that the Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 (b) and does not support it in the rest, but it is actually correct to say that it is not supported as a whole. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 1 and 3: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 the words "The Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "The Minister of Innovation and Growth." 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Innovation and Growth"; (b) point 9 is repealed. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 the words "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Innovation and Growth." 2. In para. 2 the words "the owner of the property' shall be replaced by the relevant competent authority. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a The following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 1 in t. 1 and 3 words are deleted from the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Economy. 2. In para. 5 after the words "al." 1 is added.. 10 and 3. In para. 6 after the words "Private municipal property" is added as well as for the transactions under para. 1, 10 and 11 and the words "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Innovation and Growth." 4. In para. 10, t. 1 words and written consent by the Minister of Economy........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u31	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I am opening a discussion on the title of the Bill and paragraphs 1 to 3 on the numbering of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Alexander Ivanov for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to thank the President of the Commission, who made the correct clarification that our text proposed with colleagues from the GERB-SDS parliamentary group was not supported by the Commission and gave us the opportunity to read it and we should speak. We hope to persuade the House to support our proposal. Colleagues, at present, commercial companies whose capital is not sole ownership of the State or municipality, are mixed between state and municipality, as well as between a public and private entity, with more than 50% state and municipal participation cannot sell without tender or competition and therefore their investors cannot benefit from the incentive measure under art. 22a, para. 10 of the Investment Promotion Act. At the same time, these companies are public undertakings within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act and the control over them, colleagues, is the same as exercised on commercial companies whose capital is owned by the State or the municipality concerned. In this respect, the public undertakings' regime should be the same for all public undertakings. With this proposal, we wanted to regulate this, so to speak, the incompleteness of the Investment Promotion Act, which is currently being implemented. It is not right, colleagues, for investors who are looking to invest in certain properties owned by such companies, as I said, not to be able to benefit from this incentive measure. At present, these companies are in a less favourable position to both private industrial zones and sole state-owned companies. This repels some of the potential investors, colleagues, makes the procedure for them longer, naturally and at higher prices in the auctions, in which they should participate because there is one restriction in the decares.. At over 100 decares, the minimum bid price step should be 10%, which can only increase by one step in the bidding by 100 thousand. lv. the price of each property. This, of course, is not particularly interesting in such industrial areas that have such a problem. It is precisely without disturbing the idea of state control, and naturally, not abuse of these properties under the current regime that we are making this proposal so that the investment process can be eased, that the state's control remains enhanced and that, apart from the private interest being protected and the public interest. I hope that we will receive support from this House and that this change in the Law will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines for Alexander Ivanov? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u34	We have taken the proposal very seriously from colleagues from GERB-SDS and they are right that there is a question which is not specified in the Law. What we have achieved at the Economic Commission is that we are not divided into government and opposition, but we are thinking expertly. We have received opinions from the two portfolio ministries that they need time on the subject in order to work on a serious amendment of the Investment Promotion Act. If the amendment is adopted now in this form, there are risks that cannot be mastered. That is, colleagues from GERB, there is really something that needs to be settled in a future legislative effort that has been adopted by everyone, but it is believed that in order to avoid the corruption risk and avoid damage that we cannot foresee now, we need to achieve the best editing. During the Commission, I also requested the assurance from the two ministries that when working under the Investment Promotion Act and its change, which will start immediately, this issue will be regulated. I pay attention to you that we have devoted a lot of attention to your asking and a lot of time so that it is decided. You just understand it won't work with this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u35	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other lines? I won't. For the back, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. There is indeed a discussion of the topic of working groups, and I cannot really hide the good tone in which our committee works, and I am glad that we keep it at expert level. But let us remind you this: it was the legislative initiative on this bill that did not start from the Council of Ministers, as in principle there were such requests for changes to take place, and let us say that the colleagues who initiated this LID are colleagues from the National Assembly, which regulates one structure and the Ministry of Economy is divided into two new ministries accordingly. There is nothing wrong with this, but it is using this opportunity, without any overall change and public discussion of the Investment Promotion Act, this change, which is taking place at the initiative of Mrs. Kullenski and other importers, that we have made our proposal and we insist today to vote in the Chamber. Otherwise, there have indeed been such talks and the ministries have stated their readiness, only that we prefer and insist on this happening today in the Chamber. Once again, to stress that the proposal we have made is to from... will be applicable and will give equality. We do not see how it could be a reason or reason under the current legal framework, in your view, for one type of companies and properties not to have a corrupt threat, but with the new change that we have proposed to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Stankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also take account of the proposal submitted between the first and second readings with my fellow Members in relation to the Bill. I will also take this opportunity to thank the President of the Commission, who has indeed done everything possible, first of all, to consider it in the Commission, and secondly, to set up a working group, which, by meeting several times, to try to find a solution and the Bill to succeed, so to speak, to accept our proposal as part of the working law. What is the basis of our proposal? At the end of the Forty-fourth National Assembly as part of the executive power together with the colleagues with whom we submitted the bill, we saw this vice that one of the hypotheses was missed, namely: if an investor comes to the territory of the country, is certified or, in other words, there are certain advantages that can benefit from the Investment Promotion Act, it will not be treated equally in each municipality. What do I mean? If the territory of the industrial zone on which it would like to invest is only municipal or only state property, it, with a decision of the municipal council, a decision on the board of industrial zones, and naturally, the excessive penalty of the Minister.. in the case of innovation, will already have the right, with the change in the Law, to buy ownership and to make its investment much faster. However, the hypothesis in which the industrial zone is both municipal and state property is dropped by the Law. It deprives the future investor in the territory of the country and in territories that are in the territory of Burgas, of Stara Zagora district, to make their investments, and on the contrary, they must go through the much heavier procedure, which, apart from being administratively heavy, takes so much time that Mr. Dimitrov, I am worried that with the amendments of the Law, which have promised colleagues from the executive power to submit, it will be a personal feat for me by the end of the year, if it happens. What worries me so much is that my colleague, the Minister of Economy, clearly from the administration, has shared arguments in the direction that a notification must be made to the European Commission on this amendment to the Law. We have done our work with our colleagues, we have contacted colleagues from the relevant ministries and it turns out that this amendment is in full compliance with all European documents. We do not even need to notify the Commission of this amendment. Other reasons were then given in the working group. How important the Law of Business was, and you understand that there were extremely many interests that intertwined. Why do we have to make this change right now? I think that we, as involved MPs in this, should have proper legislation at any time when we notice an irregularity at any law, should propose the necessary amendment. Moreover, when an administrative procedure for the opening of a bill is amended by the respective decisions of the Council of Ministers, coordination procedures, public discussions and votes in the Chamber, it does take many weeks, not to mention many months. Right now, at this moment in Europe, there is a war where there is a refugee wave, which we are able to accept, these are educated people, Bulgarians who can come to the territory of the country. Through these investments, from which there is current tide in the Eurasian territory, to attract investors on the territory of a country, even more without administrative delay, I think there is no more right time than when to make this amendment. During the working group we wanted to hear the arguments of the executive about the concerns which you, Mr. Dimitrov, mentioned, about corruption practices that could be possible. Once again, I will mention that the Law is still in effect, but it acts for unmixed property between a municipality and a state, and for the property of a municipality and a separate property of a state. So we asked our fellow executives, who, I dare say, during the meetings of the working group were not represented at the political level necessary, to make their editorial decisions, to replace public undertakings with the terminology they requested, but unfortunately, this did not happen within the agreed deadlines. Moreover, I am worried that at the moment these investors, who are in the territories of the districts mentioned by me, Burgas and Stara Zagora, walking the long administrative path, will become so that they, even after one year, when the Law is tabled again for amendment and supplement, will not have completed their procedure. They will most likely give it up to pass if the executive still manages to pass under this procedure, which we are now proposing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, with the extra time. Dear colleagues in charge, I ask for a moment of silence and really hear what I want to say to you. At the moment, the state is coming out of the grip of a species of crisis. We need fresh new investments on the territory of the country to help the refugee wave. These Bulgarians, who come to Bulgarian territory, are educated people, except to be socialized, to have places in kindergartens, schools, to have their jobs, not to weigh on the social system, but to be part of our Bulgarian society. Thank you. I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Do you have any lines for Jeco Stankov? Desislava Trifonova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Stankov, I don't think there'll be any hearing in the future. Indeed, I also thank Mr. Martin Dimitrov for spending a lot of time on this topic. The executive did not have any hearing in terms of our arguments. Moreover, they had more than three weeks to come up with three texts in one article. 22a. Nothing more. This thing could have happened with the help of the Public Enterprises Agency. Instead, we have received arguments that legislation is yet to be analysed. For three months, the government has been working on an analysis that hasn't started. It's only expected that six months from now, there's going to be some kind of law. So I do not think that we will yet see any measures to encourage investors, because if, by now, this government had the desire to actually attract investors, at least one measure would have been introduced. In my speech, Mr President, I will also comment on the specific texts. I don't share your optimism, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u41	Thank you. Do you have any other lines for Jeco Stankov? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Trifonova, I intend to remain optimistic until the end, although my optimism was shaken during the working group, when a representative and part of the board of the state enterprise Industrial Zones, which in most part is based on art. 22 of the Investment Promotion Act has precisely voted on the territory of the whole country to sell such properties under the light procedure, opposed this thing to happen for the territory of Burgas and Stara Zagora district. Two territories that are undoubtedly both part of the green deal, so there is also a rather heavy industry that needs assistance. Once again, thank you for mentioning the attraction of investments. At the moment, attracting investment has several major factors that we can now manage and dare to claim, well, as a legislative authority. First of all, the investor, when entering the territory of an industrial zone, to have the necessary infrastructure such as road, pipeline, electricity, water, sewerage and everything else that is necessary for him to make his investment directly. When he comes and sees these implemented infrastructure projects on the territory of the area, we tell him that he must go a path that will take more than a year to buy his land, and the real time for which he will make his investment and build his factory, production or whatever he wants will do it in a short period. We will do nothing but to push this investor away, with the problem that he may not only escape from the territory of the fourth and sixth district cities, but also choose another territory of the country. Because at the end of the day, he, being from the Second Multiannual Election Region, Burgas, knows that those who come to invest there, most of the time have a direct desire to invest because of the close connection with port, airport, railway infrastructure, highway. A model that isn't anywhere in the country is possible. So if these investors are not welcomed in the right way in these so important territories with many opportunities in terms of logistics infrastructure, we have a chance to lose them and they will choose other countries -- Romania, Greece, Italy, Croatia, if you will. So now is the moment when Serbia, which is not part of the EU, also has a disadvantage, but this can also become an advantage because of state aid. So now is the time to put ourselves through, coming out of this crisis, to attract as many investors as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, once again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Next speeches.. Desislava Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go into a little detail in paragraphs one to three. It is commendable that between first and second reading there were still some suggestions. So we don't just replace one minister with the other. There wasn't a single measure proposed. On the contrary, on the contrary. In art. 22a has a very important para. 10, according to which, when a state-owned land is sold, rented out or any form of disposal by a state-owned undertaking is made, written prior consent of the Minister of Economy is required. This thing is deleted, which means de facto that the DKK and any other state-owned company, which is sole property, will be able, without auctioning and in the dark, to sell land or lease to an investor without the Ministry of Economy knowing. What transparency are we talking about in the government of change? What measures aimed at reducing corruption are we also talking about? Quite the opposite. The most disturbing of all is that this text appears between first and second readings. Until now, no one's ever allowed themselves to do that. Transparency is always sought because the Public Enterprises Act makes one exception and when asking for an investor field from the state or from the municipality, it does not pass under the Public Enterprises Act of the heavy and long tender, but passes to an assessment by independent two valuers. The procedure is quite simplified. For this reason, further control and in order to ensure the state interest there has always been coordination by the Minister of Economy in cases where the plots are owned by the Regional Ministry by the Minister of Regional Ministry and by the Minister of Defence. I believe that this proposal not only does not reduce corruption, but also creates a huge opaqueness. Instead of proposing, gentlemen managing, encouraging measures, you are dealing with creating measures for opaque sale almost on state terrains. In addition, in respect of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, by the way, it limits the scope of the action of art. 22a, because there the words the owner of the property, which means including when not only the state is the owner, but also a public enterprise is the owner of the property... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u45	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u46	...these words shall be replaced by the relevant competent authority. Here, this way from art. 22a is excluded. 10 and you create a contradiction between art. 16 and between Art. 22a, which will result in practical inapplicability of para. Article 10 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 22a. Because the competent authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, of which prior consent is required for the terrain, are only in para. 1. So I don't know what the reasons for this proposal are. If you want to completely block the investment process in the country, this is what it really looks like. So, in one part, you remove the minister's prior consent. On the other hand, you exclude single companies from being able to give prior consent to the sale of land. I can't figure out where this gap comes from by not knowing the matter or some rush that's trying to sell some specific properties in the dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. A line from Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Trifonova! Indeed, you have been impressed by an important nuance of the proposals made by MPs between first and second readings, while the proposal of our parliamentary group, on the one hand, not supported by the Ministry of Innovation and Growth and its experts, rather the political parties of it, was that the texts could create corrupt practice. As I said in my speech, they do not change the current regulation, and the procedure is simply expanding. But you stressed on a proposal that seems to me really, and perhaps it could arouse such suspicions that it would wake corruption practices, namely dropping the procedure to have coordination through the Minister of Innovation and Growth. As far as the bill proposed by the importing gentlemen, our fellow Members, aims at the division of the Ministry of Economy, the powers over the Bulgarian Development Bank and the billions at its disposal and the Investment Agency to go to the powers of the Minister of Innovation and Growth, our proposal was really aimed at improving the investment environment in Bulgaria. If you can tell me what you think this prior coordination is about, and perhaps convince the House that this is a process that will rather leave the dedication of these terrains in the dark than do it in an even more transparent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines to Desislava Trifonova? Jeco Stankov for a cue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Trifonova, what I missed in your speech was to compare with what we propose as an administrative procedure, justification for why this will not be in a vicious practice or some practice that will be backstage, namely in a way that is happening at the moment, to do for the hybrid model of the property municipality of a state. What I mean is that the relieved procedure at the first level will pass through the municipal councils, which are fragmented and represented by various political parties, will then be seen by the Board of State Enterprise. So the procedure that we are proposing is clearly and distinctly mentioned by you that what we are proposing is the maximum increase in control, only that we have not drawn up a decision of the Council of Ministers. That's the only thing we haven't drawn in, but if we have to, that's what we're gonna do. In my opinion, this will simply aggravate the procedure. So what we are proposing is maximum transparency, decision-making in accordance with European legislation. What you have mentioned, however, and the change between first and second readings, which has been made and separately placed at the outset, the exclusion of the minister from the procedure, the involvement of preliminary solutions without clarity, then we can now talk about problems. Rather, I am worried that the appeals that were made between first and second readings about the bill that we tabled with you, colleagues, come out in practice, as the thief calls out to hold the thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u51	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Stankov, for the clarification. There is no way that the texts that we propose suggest any corruption risk, and that is precisely because of the control that is required by the Minister of Economy. He's always been very important. The Minister of Economy is always communicating with the State enterprise concerned for this particular purpose to see what kind of control and under what procedure the state enterprise itself, which is sole property, will sell the land. And this was the guarantee that we had provided with the idea not to abuse state ownership by both businesses and investors themselves. I really don't understand the motives for removing this control. Unfortunately, we see that none of the government wants to take any attitude, at the very least to argue the abolition of control, and that makes me very bad impression. In addition to the fact that there is not a single measure so far to encourage investors, we will sell the land in the dark, even the Council of Ministers will not know about the sale of the land, not to mention the ministers. The only hypothesis in which the Council of Ministers will know that there is a disposal of land will be in the case when we have a priority investment project, because its promotion goes through the Council of Ministers. These are projects over 100 million. With everything else, what's going on?! There are 100 million in total, there are other hypotheses. In reality, we leave all state land to the favor of state enterprises. That is, from tomorrow they will be able to sell their land as they want, where they want an investor, without going to control the executive power. And they are not even an executive body, they are state-owned enterprises within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act. I really do not find justification in the proposal. For me, except that there is a contradiction between art. Art. 16 and art. 22a and really both texts will not be able to be applied, from now on there will be a mass sale of land across the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. Next statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. I put the name of the bill to the vote. The name is in the version of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovations: the Act for Amendment and Supplement to the Investment Promotion Act. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u55	Thank you. Vote in this House 186 MPs and 1 online " 187" total: 125 and 1 online " 126," against 58 abstentions 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Zhecho Stankov and Desislava Trifonova, which is not supported by the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u56	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u57	They voted in this House 188 MPs and 1 online " 189: for 50, against 118 and 1 online " 119, abstentioned 20. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, proposed by the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, in the version of the Commission. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u59	Vote in the House 188 MPs and 1 online " 189," 124 and 1 online "125," against 63, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In the other texts of the Law, the words "the Minister of Economy", "the Minister of Economy" and "the Minister of Economy" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Innovation and Growth" respectively, "the Minister of Innovation and Growth" and "the Ministry of Innovation and Growth." 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Hristo Gazhev. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 5. Under § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev § 3 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship (prom., SG No. ...) all over the world the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8. Only, Mr. Chairman, according to § 2 the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev, I think I did not read it and it is § 2 to drop out. Because unsupported texts are read. The Commission does not support the proposal. The report is also presented.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening the discussion. Hristo Gadget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Two proposals I've made and they've been reported. The first proposal concerns the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, namely the changes in it to be dropped. Why did I make that offer? Because I do not think that it is right for MPs to be those who are making similar structural changes to the Council of Ministers, and I do not think that it is appropriate, for example, even now, for MPs to propose changes to the structure of the Council of Ministers in their own name. This is the work of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers should propose such changes, not MPs. But apparently the Council of Ministers chose the faster track by proposing such a change to MPs... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u63	Colleagues, can I have a little quiet in the room, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u64	...and they brought it in on their own behalf, and it's not the right legal technique and it shouldn't be done that way. But we'll see if the House supports him. The second proposal is for dropping the texts related to the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, namely investment citizenship and the ways in which the Minister of Economy so far has agreed and prepared a procedure for granting such citizenship. Why am I suggesting this thing drop out? Because there is a similar bill tabled by the Council of Ministers. Yesterday, it was even considered by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, as far as I understand it, has been postponed to the next meeting and a working group will be made to continue the changes to this bill. In this way, the adoption of the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers will also be delayed to remove the opportunities for investment citizenship. And here I do not understand why at the moment it is in a hurry to make this change in the Investment Promotion Act.... through the Investment Promotion Act, as a transitional provision, to enable Minister Lorre the Minister of Investment to be able to do on his own behalf the procedures for giving the so-called gold passports, while the National Assembly and the government are slowing down the change for dropping out at all the possibility of such passports. Because if you notice the text of the Council of Ministers, it deletes everywhere the Minister of Economy's ability to give an opinion and to start these procedures. But I do not understand why the government is in a hurry to change through Transitional and Final Provisions the Law on Citizenship, perhaps in order to be able to give such passports in the vacuum between the adoption of the Law of the Council of Ministers by the National Assembly, which raises doubts in me that there will be abuse in this direction. That's why we've suggested that these two paragraphs be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate, guys. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, please take your seats and please invite the Quaestors to enter the Chamber. Colleagues, we are voting first § 1 by importer, which is in the version of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u67	Thank you. They voted 171 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 172 total: 118 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 119 total, against 49 abstention 4. That's how the offer is accepted. We are going to vote on the name of the division "Concluding provisions" which is by importer and supported by the Commission. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Vote 168 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 169 total: 128 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 129 total, against 37, abstention 3. That's how the offer is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev § 2 to drop, which is not supported by the Commission. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u70	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u71	Thank you. Vote 169 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. total 170: 42, against 122 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 123 in total, abstention 5. That's why the offer isn't accepted. We will now vote on the proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev under § 3, namely to drop out, which is also not supported by the Commission. Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u72	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u73	They voted 172 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 173 total: 57 against 106 in the Chamber and 1 online... total 107 abstentions 9. That's why the offer isn't accepted. Colleagues, we will now vote on all the texts that have been read by Mr. Dimitrov and we will vote on them together. In fact, we vote from § 2 which is by importer and becomes § 5; § 3 by importer, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 6; § 4 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 7; and § 5 by importer, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 8. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u75	Thank you. Vote 154 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 155 total: 120 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 121 total, against 33, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. With this and that. 1 of this agenda is also closed. Moving on to point two: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Reports were received from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Culture and Media. I ask someone to present the report of the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here you are, General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I present to your attention the report of the Commission on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which consists of only one paragraph: At its regular meeting held on 2 March 2022, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act, No 47-254-01-19, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 22 February 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boyko Rashkov, Minister of Interior, Mr. Lyuboslav Popov, Director of the Legal Activity Directorate at the Ministry of Interior, and Mr. Kiril Valchev, Director General of BTA. The bill submitted complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Iva Miteva and Ms. Rena Stefanova. The proposed bill proposes the inclusion of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (BTA) in the list of the protected by the Ministry of Interior sites referred to in Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior (SMI). The sites listed in the list are guarded by police authorities, including alarm and other equipment. The building of BTA, which is located in Sofia, Blvd. At present, the security and security regime in the BTA building are carried out by a security company on the basis of a contract which expires on 1 May 2022. It is stated that the assignment of the security of the BTA building is insufficiently effective given the status of BTA and the expenditure of the funds is inappropriate. It was noted that BTA has strategic significance. From 9 March this year, the Telegraph Agency will provide free free access to its own information products, as well as free distribution of official acts and communications by a wider range of individuals. All this requires an investment in the renewal of outdated equipment and the Agency's archive, as well as providing new levels of network information security. BTA also stores newsletters from Bulgaria and the rest of the world since 1898, has the largest unique photo archive in the country with more than 5 million. photos from 1952 until now. The physical security of the BTA building can lead to the destruction of this rich archive fund, which requires a high level of protection and protection of its integrity. A positive opinion was expressed by the Ministry of Interior in support of the Bill, stating that when the BTA building was included in the list under art. 92, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act should be provided for an additional state to secure the security of the site, which in turn will lead to the need for additional financial resources to the budget of the Ministry of Interior to secure the security activity. Mr. Kiril Valchev expressed an opinion on the bill, who argued that the security of BTA should be carried out by the Ministry of Interior, as well as those of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. After the discussion, the Commission unanimously agreed on the opinion that the draft should be examined in two votes in plenary as required by art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as there is unanimity. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out, the following results were obtained: for Thus, the Internal Security and Public Order Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 47-254-01-19, submitted by Mrs. Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 22 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u77	Thank you, General Atanasov. Mr. Yordanov, please present the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Maybe on a resume.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I present to you ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 47-254-01-19, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 22 February 2022. The Committee on Culture and Media at an extraordinary meeting held on 9 March 2022 discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 47-254-01-19, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 22 February 2022. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Valchev, Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The bill for supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior was presented by the MP Mrs. Iva Miteva. The Appendix shall include in Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 to create t. 21, which reads:.21. In the building of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Sofia, Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose." No. 49. The Law on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior provides for ensuring the physical security of the building of BTA, and it provides for the inclusion of BTA in the list under art. 92, para. 2 of the SVR of the sites and activities which the Ministry of Interior guards with police authorities, including signal-security equipment, by analogy of BNT and BNR. No financial contribution from the BTA budget has been provided for the implementation of the new framework. Mr. Kiril Valchev, Director General of BTA, expressed his thanks to the rapid reaction of the MPs and their decision. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held in which, with 19 votes for the Ministry of Interior Act No 47-254-01-19, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 22 February 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. I am opening a discussion on the proposed bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva. A presentation by an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u80	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will be very brief in view of the detailed report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. I believe that this amendment is necessary and perhaps the time has come for it, as I pointed out in the Commission that the possibility of BTA being guarded by the Ministry of Interior was created in 2015. Then Annex 1 to the Act on the Ministry of Interior is created, along with the protection of BNR, BNT was added the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The status of these institutions is almost identical. The Bulgarian telegraph agency is an independent national institute and I think it should be among those entities that are guarded free of charge by the state. I don't know why... It is interesting, by the way, that there are no motives, as when Annex 1 to the Ministry of Interior Act was adopted, there is not even a single line why this application is introduced and why these objects are precisely included in it. Similarly, when the list has already been changed 2017 and when only the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency has been removed from the list. There is a single sentence that refers to sites that are not state-owned. Unfortunately, however, the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency has been at this address since 1991, 2021, I think it was acted as state property, it is public government property, so these reasons for the removal of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency are irrelevant. There was then a nuance of the year 2017, with the removal of the BTA it was envisaged that these sites, which remain on guard, would pay financial resources to the Ministry of Interior. This amendment was also cancelled in 2018 and in fact only the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency remains from the sites that have to conclude contracts with private security companies. They're not even included in art. 92, para. 1 as a strategic object of national importance, which can use a contract with the Ministry of Interior and not a private security company. I believe that this amendment is fair and that we should return this status to the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. Moreover, they are also a top executive with a budget. If, in time, it is considered that there is no need for security at all on all sites and should not be in Appendix No 1, it is a matter of a completely different debate and of a completely different discussion of this law. But at the moment when BNT, BNR, all institutions are in this application, I think we should support the inclusion of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency in Annex No 1. And I call on my fellow Members if we can accept it in one sitting, as the contract with the private security firm expires and it is good that relations should end and start one other relationship with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Mr. Chenchev, would you like to speak? Here you go. Then Mr. Ibryamov is recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We admire what is being proposed today and have made it clear in the Commission. I'm just paying attention to two things. The first is our concern in the parliamentary group because of the fact that we have information about the BTA offices that are located abroad, there has been an attack. Yesterday, Director-General Mr. Valchev said that there is no such thing, but we have such information, and these offices, BTA press clubs abroad, we are referring to Northern Macedonia, we are referring to Taraklia in Moldova, there are three of them, they have no security, they are not protected, and for this reason these offices are subject or may be subject to appropriate abuse. This one, first. And secondly, we admire that the BTA is already working on the BTA website, in the first place, there is a whole separate section, which is a "BG world" and it emphasizes the Bulgarian media abroad and what they reflect. But on the other hand, we also welcome the fact that BTA already has free access, not a subscription, as it used to be. But this is also a prerequisite for BTA to be protected properly by the forces of the Ministry of Interior, so our parliamentary group will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you. I'm glad I sharpened your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines to that statement? No. Mr. Ibryamov, come in for a statement. [[Heckling]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, to do procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, the Republic of Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic written in the Basic Law. As we all know, there is a division of the authorities - legislative, executive, presidential institution, judiciary. Of course, as a parliamentary republic, the highest institution is Parliament and you, as President of Parliament, must observe the normal course of the agenda and the normal things that the MPs as questions address to the lower institutions in the country, namely the ministries and their heads of ministers. In this regard, Mr President, in the morning colleagues from the Parliamentary Tribune addressed you as a guide that there are ministers who allow themselves not to answer questions from MPs. And with the mantra with which you came for the change, we have witnessed previous years that indeed the ministers do not appear in parliamentary control. Even the blitzcontrol was canceled. This trend is over. They appear, but we are not getting any answers on the ground, dear Mr. Chairman. And if a minister doesn't respond essentially, then the position he takes should set her free. From this point of view, Mr President, I am begging you, as the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has addressed the Interior Minister, who is currently absent, many questions since last year and there are no answers. Yes, I understand that you are dialoging each other inside the coalition, as well as with the ministers, but this dialogue and this dialogue must be throughout Parliament with all the parliamentary groups. Therefore, the status of these issues must be changed as irresponsible. Of course, you should remind the ministers who occupy the lower institutions in the country to be so good that we, as MPs, get our respective answers. Because otherwise there are two things: I suppose you have heard of both moral responsibility and political responsibility. Politically, we may be speaking at a later stage, but morally, it requires that you, as chairman, require the ministers to answer the relevant questions asked to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u86	I'm going to get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u87	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Heckling]] That's a statement, yes. The Parliamentary Group will support this bill, but we have several supplementary questions for the drafters. The security of BTA should no doubt be appropriate, as is the Bulgarian National Radio, as is the Bulgarian National Television. As we have also heard from the relevant committees' exhibition, it is an object of strategic importance, it will have free access to it, it has open offices in some foreign countries, it has recently opened an office in the Republic of Northern Macedonia as well. But another question arises.. since BTA, as well as BNR, have correspondents in the country, and it is not a small number, does this mean that in the relevant regions where they have correspondents, the infrastructure where they are housed will be changed and there will also be police guards, I mean the Ministry of Interior? This is a very important question. Does this mean that at some point law enforcement officials will be in greater numbers than correspondents across the country, or do we get to that point where, saying that at some point you will reduce the number of employees of the Ministry of Interior, at some point you are increasing the state with additional funds to the Ministry of Interior? Because that's what we heard from the exhibition that the relevant committee representatives did. These are important questions to which it is very necessary to get an answer, because the really main building in Sofia must have status, as is the status of BNT and BNR. That is why I say once again: my request is to the importers, let these questions that we have raised be discussed and find the right solution, because here at the end of the day, we are talking about financial resources. And we, honourable Members, are not only in health, social, but also in a global crisis because of the circumstances we are currently seeing in neighbouring Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? I won't. Colleagues, before going to the vote, let me inform you that I will give a break from 11.00 to 12.00 so that all who wish to attend the event will be held on the anniversary of the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews and honor the memory of those who died in World War II. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'll make a procedural proposal based on art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the presented bill today to be voted on in two readings, that is, the two votes to take place today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u90	First, let us vote and then the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u91	Yeah. Colleagues, we are voting on the Bill for Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, tabled by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Vote 157 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. 158 total: 155 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 156 in total, against 1, abstention 1. With this, the bill was adopted in the first vote. And now the procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 76, para. 2 today to vote on this bill and on second reading. Please, voting mode. Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u95	Thanks. Vote 160 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. in total 161: 157 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 158 in total, against 2, abstention 1. With this, the procedural proposal is accepted. Please have one of the importers read the text. General Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm the only one. In Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 is created t. 21: ..21. The building of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Sofia, Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose" And I take advantage of the fact that I have taken the floor to respond to my colleague from the DPS, namely the way the text is formulated, means that there will be security only on the central building of BTA in Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u97	Thank you, General Atanasov. Anyone else who might like to speak, colleagues? I won't. Second vote on the Law on Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Please, voting mode. Mr. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Vote 160 MPs in the Chamber and 1 online.. total 161: 159 in the Chamber and 1 online.. 160 in total, not against, abstention 1. That's how the offer is accepted. We're out of t. 2 of today's agenda. Moving on to point three: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING. There have been two drafts for a decision. Colleagues, who will present the projects? One with importer Hamid Hamid Hamid and the other with importer Victoria Vasileva. Mrs. Vasileva, will you present the draft of your decision? Project of a decision to fill the composition of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Claims of Citizens. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Victoria Vasileva.]] The DPS guys? Yes, come in, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman! On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 84, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. I request that the draft decision be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Project! DECISION on changes in the composition of the Commission for the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Ihsan Halil Hakku as a Commissioner for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society. 2. He elected Escheref Kjasim Escheref as a Commissioner for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. I'm opening debates on the bill so tabled. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on Mrs Shevked's read draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. Mr. Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. They voted 145 MPs in the House and 1 online " 146" total: 145 in the Chamber and 1 online " 146 total, no opposition and no abstentions. That's how the offer is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u104	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, on behalf of Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. We are also running out of item 3 of today's agenda. I think we'll have time to start the next item, fellow Members. We move to the fourth item of the current agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO USE COMPENSATORY MECHANISM IN COMPANY FOR NON-BIT END CLIENTS ON THE ELECTRO-ENERGY MARKET OF THE VEROIZATION, GENERAL, SOCIAL STRUCTURS, HEALTH, AND HEALTH. Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, submitted on 27 January 2022. A report came in from the Energy Commission. Colleagues, who will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Fisherman. After reading the report, colleagues, I will give a break, as I said, from 11.00 to 12:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u106	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to introduce a full-scale compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers on the electricity market of faiths, municipalities, social structures, education, health, No 47-254-02-21, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 27 January 2022. At its extraordinary meeting on 1 February 2022, the Energy Commission discussed a draft decision on the introduction of a full-scale compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers on the electricity market of religion, municipalities, social structures, education, healthcare, No 47-254-02-21, submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. On the part of the importers, the proposal was presented by the National Representative Zhecho Stankov. The decision proposes that non-resident customers who perform social, spiritual, cultural, health and educational activities be compensated by 100 per cent of the difference between the estimated market price of the regulator in price decision No C-27 of 1 July 2021 and the real market price achieved at the stock segment. The adoption of this mechanism will allow these non-bit users to continue to carry out their main activities without having to restrict and restructure it or terminate it. The persons listed in the decision do not work for profit. Their budgets are fixed in certain frameworks and many times higher electricity prices have no place to be compensated. The Council of Ministers has already adopted precisely such a mechanism to fully compensate for the difference between a price achieved on the exchange and their estimated market prices for operators of different types of electricity networks. During the discussion the MPs took part: Vladimir Tabutov, Venko Sabrutev, Delyan Dobrev, Zhecho Stankov, Alexander Nenkov, Rositsa Kirova, Nikolina Angelkova, Dragomir Stoinev, Stanislav Anastasov and Ramadan Atali. On the part of the guests spoke Metropolitan Antony, Ombudsman Professor Diana Kovacheva, Maria Brestnitsa from the National Network for Children and Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy with 7 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. I'm opening the debate on the submitted bill. Colleagues, I am announcing an hour to 11.50, who wants to attend once again the event, which will be held in the garden between the National Assembly and Sofia University. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u108	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We continue with item four of the agenda. Debates are open. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Colleagues wishing to speak on the draft decision to introduce a compensatory mechanism? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the absence of a desire for speakers from any parliamentary group, I suppose there is a consensus on this National Assembly, and we will support with a full majority our proposal for compensation to public organisations. You are probably tired of motivating this proposal to you, and I will be very brief, but I will do it one more time. Only days ago we had record prices of electricity in Bulgaria, reaching in the evening peak above BGN 1170. for hours. This money is not in the budgets of either schools or kindergartens or churches, mosques, other religious temples, nor in municipal budgets, nor in hospitals, or in cultural institutions or any other public organizations that cannot simply raise prices as business does. So these all institutions will find themselves unable to pay their electricity bill or will find themselves in a situation where they have to cut other costs, including salaries, which they already have to pay their electricity bill. And what we're offering you is something simple. Let's make up for the difference between the market price of BGN 1170. up to the estimated market of the Regulator of 119 BGN. in full. That is, give from the state budget, from the money that the state has, to compensate for the difference in this price, so that all these organizations can continue to function. You'll say, where did he get the money? It's from the supernatural incomes in the energy itself. The expected profit of the NPP in March of these high prices is more than 1 billion. lv. The compensation that the business wants, although we are now offering to public organisations, you rejected the compensation for the business that we wanted, but it without its upper threshold was 700 million. So the nuclear power plant seizes a billion dollars and returns 700 million. The money is there and we do not understand why you do not want, do not want, and this will be seen very soon with the vote. I hope you will disprove me by all of us unanimously voting in favour of this draft decision. But it will most likely turn out that you do not want to give money that has it to make up for these important organizations. As much as you do not wish, the failure of this government is precisely in the field of energy. The biggest failure! There are problems in all spheres, but here is the biggest failure. The biggest failure because he is leading against himself all these high prices, which I have heard that colleagues even from BSP today on the TV air have opposed. They said how bad those high prices were. These high prices, colleagues, would not be there if we had given compensation to the business because the biggest reason for the rise in prices in Bulgaria is the high price of electricity. It in some days and hours is 10 times higher than the normal price levels of last year, and if we, as a normal state, had given compensation for the business For public organizations, we want 100% compensation, like for the ERPs. For business, we want 75% compensation. Business to pay one quarter of the increase, but the state to take from the money the business has given. Not tax money, not budget money, but money collected from expensive electricity in energy enterprises, and to return three-quarters of it to business. If you had accepted our decisions, which we have already repeatedly proposed here, this would have happened and the oil wouldn't have cost any of you: six-seven levs, but it would have cost as much as in the UK, for example, a pound and a half. We come to the absurd situation in Bulgaria that basic food products are worth more than in other countries in the European Union. The only reason for this is the expensive energy resources and the lack of compensation. Not because there was speculation somewhere. The market in Bulgaria is competitive enough. As much as the KPCs you send any other examiners into the shops, they will find nothing different than that the goods are expensive to a manufacturer. And it's expensive with the manufacturer, because this manufacturer's electricity is impiously expensive. Once again we ask you to give 100%, let us give 100% compensation to public organizations, churches, mosques, schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, community centers, hospitals, municipalities and other similar public organizations, as we have given, and we have properly given 100% compensation to the ERPs. Let us give 75% compensation to the business because otherwise we will continue to monitor these extremely high prices of products. They'll get even more expensive. Do you know why? Because we expect an increase in gas from April 1st by more than 50%. I would not be surprised if the increase in gas from April 1 is also 100% because the price in Bulgaria is currently 113 BGN, which is 60 euros, let's say. And the price of gas on international exchanges since the beginning of this month is between 150 and 300 euros. So out of 60 we have to go over 120, 130, 150 euros. Whatever non-market mechanisms you apply to suppress this price, someone will have to pay the bill sooner or later. Yeah, maybe it's some other government and maybe not that far in time, but somebody's gonna end up paying that bill. Once again, I call on you to support the offer of 100% compensation to public organizations, to realize and support 75% compensation for expensive electricity and expensive gas for business, because otherwise our inflation will not be twice as high as in the European Union as it is now. Because of the lack of compensation, it could get three times higher. I wouldn't be surprised to see inflation around 20% in the coming months. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For lines? Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u111	Mr. Dobrev, when we first started discussing this proposal of yours a few months ago, we have had some obstructions in terms of the 100% that you have proposed. We then expected activity from the ministries of finance and energy to come with estimates, and when they rejected such a proposal, which was still necessary, but to date it is already critically necessary given the changes in the circumstances we observe, our concerns were then in terms of the hundred percent. We expected the ministries to give some options -- 50%, 70%, based on specific figures. That didn't happen. This is not happening to this day. For more than three months, we may be discussing this proposal. Given the changed circumstances, we are in the position that we will support it precisely because the profits that are currently generated in energy can afford to cover these amounts, even if we had then the obstructions in terms of whether these 100% could. Further in speech I will take another attitude, but in this particular case I am telling you about this change in our intention, because we have had disputes with you about these 100%, but to date perhaps this is really the most adequate thing that the Bulgarian government can do to these institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Angov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u112	Thank you. Mr. Dobrev, thank you for finally praising us. In Bulgaria the price of gas is five times cheaper than in Europe. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Returning to the main topic of how compensation to municipalities will change the price of oil, I think this will not happen with the 100 percent compensation you are offering. Coming out of the ironic tone, you offer 100% compensation to budget managers. Each of them can, if necessary, address their principle of additional funds, and this is the way we have adopted to help these budget managers deal with electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u113	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Excuse me, colleague, I will give Mr. Georgiev a third line, as the statement is still from your parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dobrev made a brilliant propaganda for the upcoming apocalypse, using an argument about what they brought in. Mr. Dobrev, a few days ago Mr. Bikov said an expression on our address, that is, we, who support the government that we have been, quote verbatim: Please explain to us, deeply competent, to us deeply incompetent, how did it happen that two years ago during your management, and perhaps less, you removed from protection exactly those you now want to be protected? Explain to us and perhaps we will understand your motives. But at least at this point, it turns out that you're trying with someone else's asking for a memorial service. Don't do it! [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, if you want to replicate me, come out and replicate me, and it's not very pretty from where I'm standing. So you can't get through this thing because you took them out of protection and now you're using the microphone, because the situation is extremely difficult. Indeed, after World War II, both Europe and Bulgaria have not been at a heavier time. And you stated a few days ago your willingness to use the situation to manage. You and I are from Haskovo. There's a very interesting expression there, and I'm going to say it in a dialect, so you can understand me later in translation: you ate kifes, you didn't cry. Now that there are no scones, cry!................................... when there were no meatballs, you didn't cry. Now cry, you will continue to cry! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u115	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For the doppelganger, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u116	Mr. Georgiev, I'll start backwards. If I go into your tone, I will have to say that there are meatballs for you now, and that is why you agree with the management and will not support consumer protection, although you are the chairman of this very Consumer Association. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So it's okay for you that the oil is 8 leva, because there are scones at the moment. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Angov, the price of gas is indeed 60 euros, but this government does not have so much contribution to this low price. Do you know who's making a contribution? Director Nikolay Pavlov, who you fired a month ago because he managed to negotiate a 40% reduction in the price of gas two years ago. He managed to negotiate a formula that for three years held the price of gas in Bulgaria by 30 to 40% lower than the whole of Europe. This is the director who made a 100 million profit on this enterprise in just one year, and I said that the golden age of Bulgargaz is over with the removal of this director and the entire team of this commercial enterprise. You've come to the point that for 10 days there was a patrol car outside his house while he was sick of a horse, at least you should be ashamed of it. With regard to the fact that you will compensate from the budget, because they were almost budget managers and all these organizations will compensate them for the price of electricity, and you do not compensate them. If you didn't notice, then the budget mine here 10 days ago we voted it at night, and there was no compensation for electricity of BGN 1172. I wasn't! There wasn't one for 200 leva. electricity, and for 300 leva. There was no electricity, not to mention 1172. Perhaps by passing the three months for which this budget was made, in the next three-month budget, because the state is already making a budget every three months, and then predicting, but then it may be too late for many of these organizations, not to mention that churches and mosques are not budget managers, but you will learn that further. And to Mrs. Iskra Mihaylova. I want to thank you for understanding and understanding the situation and supporting us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u117	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. To speak, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I believe that this debate should be attended by the Minister of Energy or the Minister of Finance. There is no way to have this serious debate on one of the most important and vicious topics of our society and not have the Minister of Energy or the Minister of Finance present here. I am just surprised and this shows how concerned these representatives of the government and the whole government are about the well-being of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian business. What we need to know is that this debate, and perhaps we should be grateful to the ruling majority, that you still allowed this debate to take place after a long time having slow reading exercises here in plenary in order to postpone the debate on this draft decision on our part, which we consider extremely important. Finally, the time has come. Perhaps later than never. What we are proposing is really a wonderful opportunity to take a decision and to show to the Bulgarian people, to the Bulgarian citizens, whose representatives we are all here The same Bulgarian people are currently struggling, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority. Municipalities should not be intimidated by the fact that they will be checked by the Agency for State Financial Inspection, do not scare them with checks. They shall be checked periodically and each year subject to verification by ADFI, the Court of Auditors and shall not require verification. They need an adequate government response, such a reaction that we do not see so far, because if there was an adequate response, if there was a vision of how the situation should be managed at this crisis point, there would not be zeros in the budget of 1 April 2022 on the compensation order. There are zeros, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, I don't know how you look at these zeros, but they sound extremely scary and disastrous. Indeed, there are dozens of municipalities that have imposed street lighting regime so that they can make some savings. Such a miracle has not happened in decades, and this should have happened now at this time and you stubbornly refuse to look here for perhaps two months, our proposal. This proposal should have been addressed, honourable Members, before the State Budget Act was adopted, I will not say an annual budget, because it is a budget for the second quarter of 2022. We should have considered it then this draft decision and these funds, these compensations should have been put in the budget so that people would know that someone was thinking about them and not leave them so to chance. What I feel that you are preparing to do today is to refuse to support our draft decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to call on you to be reasonable and to show concern for the Bulgarian people, for the Bulgarian citizens and for the Bulgarian municipalities, for the Bulgarian churches, mosques, for the Bulgarian social institutions. Be reasonable, overcome all party biases and instructions and give us to work and really show that we are united when it comes to such important issues for Bulgarian citizens. I call on you to support our draft decision. He will only bring dividends to you as governors. What will happen will help Bulgarian citizens, which is our goal and what we work for. Thank you. I hope your sanity. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Petkova, ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to make the line in the context of what my colleague said about religious temples because we are already in the first week of the Great Post. I believe that regardless of our faiths, we all know that God is one and different are only the ways in which we come to him. But in the Holy Scriptures, you know, colleagues that it is written, I will not enter into the professional tone of colleagues Petkova and colleague Dobrev, because I do not have this self-confidence, nor this expertise, but you know that it is written: the Caesar Caesar Caesar, the God of God. But, Mrs. Petkova, do I understand correctly that we have let merchants into the temple and that religious temples are aligned with the industrialists and pay the electricity consumption as a production electricity. And the other thing I would like to draw attention to, fellow Members, I suppose that more of you, preparing for the plenary day, were watching the various TV broadcasts and saw that much of the Bulgarian temples, rather monasteries, were preparing to meet the refugees from the war in Ukraine. My question is rhetorical: should we expect from temples and Epiarchy, from Metropolitans to provide invoices for the cost of meeting these people?! And if not from our constituents, let us at least have the fear of God. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u121	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any other lines to Temenuzhka Petkova's statement? Nikolai Angov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u122	Dear Mrs. Petkova, we didn't scare with checks, we offered help. And we have proposed in a very simple way that we will confirm whether there is a need for financial assistance through ADFI and that will be done. At one point, however, it turned out that the municipalities lit the lights and did not need our help. They are constantly being tested and so on, and why didn't they accept the help then? And for zeros for compensations, you know very well that municipalities are compensated like all other non-bit consumers, that is, there are compensations for municipalities and they are compensated in general as non-bit consumers. In this order of thinking what Mr. Nikolov said about the temples being aligned to the proceedings, we have not done this liberalisation. We didn't make that comparison. And another line to Mrs. Petkova. Something's wrong with the municipalities of society, the municipalities of society... Here you are trying to impress on people who are watching and interested, trying to impress that we do not want to support the whole society and at some point gently transfer rhetoric to municipalities. Let's be clear. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Not from a place, not from a place. [[Laughter, noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u123	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u124	Now we're talking about municipalities or the whole people. As far as I know, your decision is only for municipalities and listed non-bit users who need additional compensation in your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u125	Colleagues, please. Thank you, Mr. Angov. Is there a third line to Mrs. Petkova's statement? Here you go, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the lines, too. Dear Mr. Angov, I will try in a simple way to answer you. [[Noise and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] Since the topic that you are putting can really be solved in a simple and simple way, and this way is the government to act adequately on the situation, to take its place and really make up for the Bulgarian municipalities, churches, mosques, social homes. It's the simple way to act, and it's the government's response. As for whether I am referring to municipalities or society, I believe that in these municipalities we all live, there are Bulgarian citizens, there is the Bulgarian society, so by supporting the municipalities, of course, that we are helping the citizens who live there. What citizen wants to walk in the night in the dark and be threatened by someone robbing him or something, as we see that another type of domestic crime is beginning to increase significantly? So all that we offer, we offer it only for Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian society, so that people can feel comfortable and live comfortably. And as for the way you offered the municipalities, this simple way to check them AFFI and then decide whether or not you need help. I'm sorry, but the State Financial Inspection Agency doesn't rule on how many lamps should be lit on the street, it has quite different and more serious functions. And whether it's normal in the 21st century to turn off the lights on the streets, I don't think it's normal and it's nice for the government and you, as a ruling majority coalition, to come the initiative from you to change this trend. But regardless of this, the opposition tends to offer you this option, this decision, and you, if you really have political wisdom and political intelligence, will accept our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. For speech Emil Georgiev is recorded, and I am recording you, Mrs. Mihailova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! I would like to make it clear that in the Group of GERB-SDZ, I personally have many friends that I respect very much and I can list at least ten names that I am proud to know them with and that we have protected both the rights of consumers and the protection of the environment for the past two or three years. Mr. Mladenov is here, Mrs. Petkova is here and others, Mrs. Kanazireva, because I see her eyes, too. [[Noise and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, I met her look, she was very gentle. [[Noise and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] In terms of consumer protection. With all due respect to Mrs. Kanazireva, I say this because, together with her, we have defended the cause of Bellashtica's defence, and that is a fact. But to get back to the point. This proposal in terms of consumer protection really deserves respect, only, fellow Members, tell us from where, because the state budget is not a harmonica to stretch out as we wish. Personally, I would only support this proposal when you, the deep-understanders, explain to us, the deep-understanders, who exemplified 56 million on the highway of Hemus? Who sent $500 million for the dams? Who sent $8 million for the Dubai exhibit? All the money that could have helped us solve people's problems. Say them here, from this tribune, and I, as a representative of a consumer organisation, will vote for your proposal, if you do not, I will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u129	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Mrs. Mihailova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I have no hope that some decision can be made here in a positive aspect proposed by the opposition. Whoever she is, however different she may be from each other, she is accepted in the same way by the ruling majority. Regarding what was discussed earlier, I just want to tell you a few figures from yesterday. The state power plant Maritsa East 2 was sold for 84 million. lv. at prices of 680 BGN. for a megawatt hour, which is a record price. Speaking of which, how? When money comes into a sector, there are different ways. We had suggested that the cheap electricity produced in Bulgaria should be used for consumption by the Bulgarian business and by the Bulgarian consumers, which was argued in millions of ways by the government that it could not be done because of liberalisation, because of our community commitments, because of the interests of this or that of the Bulgarian consumers, not ours. Now, in this particular case, when we sell this energy, we generate some profits that are not small at all, this is the moment when we can bring them back to the Bulgarian population in any form at all -- whether it's for non-bit end users, or for business, or for domestics, because at the moment there are such statements that there will not be any change in prices, but we don't know it, because there was also about fuels, only that we saw what happened. The government's practice of blaming every contact of the opposition, as it happened, by the way, and just two days ago, in which the opposition was tried not to be allowed to meet small producers and traders of fuels, unfortunately the government did not happen because people find a way to interact with us, as they do not believe your decisions, now you have to make an adequate decision here to support this. Since we know that on your part there is nothing to expect, as it is clear here that it is a rubber stamp of the government and of the executive power, at least talk to your superiors there, who tell you exactly how to vote, when and how to speak and how to argue, tell them that now is the time for everything they have refused to do in the last three months, and we have been calling for analyses and readings and help absolutely every single link, every single unit of the Bulgarian society, because there is a way and mechanism at the moment. We are aware of what will happen now in this vote. Thank you. Can I actually do a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. The procedure, if there are no lines to your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u132	Okay, I'll hold.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u133	Colleagues, are there any lines to Mrs. Mihaylova's statement? I can't see. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedure for extending working hours until the agenda, which was scheduled for the day, is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. A reverse opinion? I can't see. Before I vote on the proposed procedural proposal, I will only say which MPs have been enrolled for speech.. Rositsa Kirova, Krasimir Valchev, Mr. Atali is also recorded for speech, Zhecho Stankov, Desislava Atanasova, Alexander Nenkov. Okay, the list will obviously be long. Please vote on the procedural proposal made by Iskra Mihailova to extend today's meeting until the agenda is exhausted. Mr. Kalin Ivanov? Mr. Ivanov, are you here?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u136	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u137	Thank you. Vote MPs in the Chambers 180 and 1 online. A total of 181: for 83, against 26, abstention 71 in the Chamber and 1 online. Colleagues, this proposal is not accepted. We'll continue the debate. To speak, Mrs. Kirova, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the proposal has aged quite a bit in the National Assembly's Office and three, four, five weeks has not been able to see the agenda. Today came the order of this proposal and the first question that everyone is asking is it up to date after having stayed for more than a month in the Ministry, almost two? Yeah, it's up to date! The proposal for compensation today is more up-to-date than even when it was submitted, because it will help us to solve a problem that is not only Bulgaria's problem, it is not only the Bulgarian municipalities or the Bulgarian non-bit producers, it will help us to solve a problem that is currently facing all over Europe before different governments. In fact, solving this problem will highlight those governments that can deal with and think about their own population and citizens, those who hardly respond to society's problems and are not ready to propose solutions. I sincerely hope that the Bulgarian Parliament will help the Bulgarian government to make a decision for the benefit of its citizens. I would not separate the solution of the problem of non-domestic consumers, such as municipalities and municipal companies and enterprises, kindergartens, nurseries, nursing homes, temples, cultural institutions and hospitals, from the solution of the problem of non-domestic end-users in the face of the Bulgarian business, because both problems must be solved. I therefore appeal for this National Assembly to approach responsibly, and besides that today we can adopt the decision to introduce the 100% compensation measure for non-bit consumers who are listed in our proposal, it is good to think about dropping the ceiling for business compensation, because at one time when fuel prices, gas and electricity are growing in a way that can hardly be foreseen, the Bulgarian society needs security, and this decision will not only help the Bulgarian business and will give it the desired and necessary predictability, but will actually affect our economic indicators and economic life in the country and will accordingly reflect on every Bulgarian citizen. The price of final products and inflation, which already has dimensions completely different from those in Europe, is a derivative of the decisions that we make as a parliament and from the decisions proposed by the Bulgarian government, and in fact show the lack of them. When we offered to be compensated with 100% non-bit consumers in the face of municipalities and those organizations that could not otherwise form higher revenues, we also thought about business and I think we had enough discussions on how the Bulgarian business should be compensated. There has not been a hearing, and I sincerely hope that we will put this discussion back on the agenda today, because it is very important. What business receives as an attitude will be reflected in the attitude towards those who manage the state. Unfortunately, however, in addition to the relations we exchange, we also exchange a large percentage of social poverty that overtakes all Bulgarian citizens below a certain threshold, because inflation affects the lives of everyone, and the price of electricity is one of the key factors for inflation in Bulgaria to be almost double the average inflation in the European Union. That is why I appeal to all of you to accept the proposal and to think about and return to a discussion in the National Assembly the issue of business compensation, with the dropping of the ceiling for compensation for business and, above all, because we are waiting for analysis and proposals from the government for a long time and not yet, not to mislead the Bulgarian citizens, claiming that the enterprises, non-bit consumers producing for the Bulgarian market and abroad could, of course, by signing long-term contracts especially now, at this time, achieve lower electricity prices for their productions. First of all, as statistics I can tell you, I quote from memory, I wrote down, but from around 630,000 non-bit consumers not more than 40 businesses could make these long-term contracts themselves on the free market. Everyone else has to go through the so-called intermediaries, power traders, and I don't think that will solve the problem. I am convinced that the Bulgarian government knows that. I do not understand why these over-profits should be generated at the nuclear power plant -- Kozloduy -- say, in other energy companies -- provided that this is one of the main factors for increasing inflation and the bad life of Bulgarian citizens -- and we are here to solve precisely these problems -- to find a way to improve the lives of the people around us. So I appeal to you once again to accept our offer. I ask you very much to refrain from that political talk in which everyone starts attacking and insulting everyone of what he has done and what he has not done, and what he could do about it. [[People's Representative Vladimir Tabutov points to GERB-SDS]] Because, don't point to me, dear sir, I don't remember your name, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u139	Well, remember that!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u140	...that's why, because... In fact, we need to show what we are with how we solve our problems today in this Parliament. I think the Bulgarian citizens see what we are, each and every one of us individually and we as groups together. The responsible decision was proposed and was proposed to you much more than a month ago. I hope we can take it all together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Are there any lines? Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Kirova, what you are proposing is actually the most irresponsible solution. Actually, that's not even a solution. I want you to tell me how we're going to stimulate any mayor in any municipality to take any investment in energy efficiency if we're just going to give 100% compensation? How's that gonna work? We will tell them:..Sharp as much as you want, do not take absolutely any measures to limit the costs of electricity, we will compensate you........................................................................................... I'll give you an example. I spoke to the mayor of Razlog. For the past 10 years the mayor has replaced 2200 street lighting lights and currently it does not turn off street lighting. He simply took such measures for energy efficiency. And he is supported by GERB here not pointing out, he is a good example. Compensating 100%, and why not 90%, for instance, specifically for municipalities? Don't you think that even society wouldn't agree to the municipalities spending electricity at random and out of all taxpayers' pockets just 100% to compensate? For me, this is not a forward-looking and long-term solution to the problem. It's just maybe the worst offer. It would be worse if we could compensate them 120%, stimulate them to spend more electricity. I'm telling you again, I don't think that's a solution. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there a second line, colleagues? Do you want a hole, Mrs. Kirova? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take advantage of my doppelganger right, because I'm used to it when they ask me to answer. In this House, however, there is one huge majority to which, when questions are asked, it is conveniently silent because it knows that there are more and can vote. I'll start with this. The costs of electricity for this are statistics over the years, both of municipalities and municipal companies, of temples and hospitals, and of all the other ones listed in the draft of our decision offices, can be traced. Believe me, no one lets himself light up something that is not needed by society uncontrollably. This example you gave is not the only one in Bulgaria. Many of the municipalities in recent years in various programmes, projects and in most cases even by their own means started replacing street lighting with energy-saving lighting precisely because they were stimulated to do so. However, what you are currently doing with the refusal to take this decision is that you are melting the funds of municipalities to apply for certain programmes and to use mechanisms in which self-financing is necessary. You melt these funds by giving them to companies to cover electricity bills. There is a large part of the municipalities that are currently in debt to be able to maintain the necessary street lighting or heating in hospitals, kindergartens, schools or cultural institutions. I'm definitely convinced that this has nothing to do with it, and that's why there's statistics, and I'm coming back again, whether you like our decision or not. In this case, why 100% compensation? Because you should answer me: how will you increase your revenues a school that has a constant electricity consumption.. such as there was in this year, there was in the previous and in the previous ten? There is a delegated budget and there is no possibility to increase its revenue to pay four or five times, or three times higher account. That's what I'm talking about. The same goes for hospitals, the same goes for temples, the same for museums and cultural institutions, the same for universities. If you have bothered to read our decision, you will understand why we offer 100% and not 90%. And yes, the parla stands for the speech, and surely parliament is a place to speak, but talking madmen and the nonsense, not to say the nonsense, and the nonsense, is not needed by this tribune. And one more thing... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. And I apologize for what I just said. I didn't say you spoke them, but they're often spoken from the stands. What I think is extremely important is that Parliament is a place for decision-making, for decision-making. I don't see you offering any. We have been waiting for more than three months for the analysis of what is the situation with regard to our energy and we are waiting for the proposals for a solution. There are none for schools, there are none for businesses at the moment in a state of war, and there should be. [[(Relations from the National Representative Vladimir Tabutov: Why are you shouting?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] I apologize for raising my voice. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Krasimir Valchev for speech. Here you go, Mr. Valchev. For a statement, Mr. Ganev? I'm recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The education system is the largest public system. The employed in it are 160 thousand, the institutions are 4500 close to 4500 institutions, with 4500 directors and rectors. They are all currently developing a budget for 2022. Please do your work, go to a director of an educational institution or rector and see how he develops the budget and what is the difference with previous years. The difference with previous years is that at the moment they are planning much more energy funds. On average, three times more. I'll tell you why you need to plan three times more. Because with four times the increase in accounts and 30% compensation, you have to plan three times more. How do you think these three times more energy funds are taken when the support funds for educational institutions have been increased by less than 1%? And this is between 10 and 15% of the budget, that is, salaries for a month and a half. Where do you think they get them from? They take them from extra wages. They decrease, they all cut the extra wages and say: "If the situation is more favourable in summer or next season, then we will give additional wages. In other words, your stubbornness not to compensate, your desire to put more money into the budget, in the energy system, leads to a real reduction in remuneration in educational institutions, in medical institutions and in many other places. There is simply no such reserve of added value. What you didn't understand is that this situation is extreme and transcendent. Whatever markets we are talking about, this is not a normal fluctuations for non-financial markets to have 8, 10 times even an increase in prices. There are people here, I do not hope that any of us from the "We continue the Change" will do something without Asen Vasilev, but there are people from the majority-seeing majority - I see Mr. Dragomir Stoinev, Petar Kanev - people with experience in the management of energy and the economy, they can best say. In your opinion, can a business system or a public system take on such a shock 10 times the increase in prices. Is this a normal shock, can you absorb such a shock from a system? Is it not a wiser decision at the moment to compensate and wait for better times to do what European business has done, to call for a change in the European emissions trading system, to save people, not to reduce remuneration, and what you are doing right now is bleeding out businesses and budgetary organisations. That's what you're doing right now. You do it on a large scale, you do it without caring, you do it outrageously, so you can raise a little more money. Only from VAT you've raised a billion and a half to put it on public procurement. Thank you. [[(Replies from]] Yeah, for capital expenditure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. The line, Mr. Dobrev. I can't see any other lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u148	Mr. Valchev, because we heard the thesis from Mr. Angov that in the budgets of schools and educational institutions there are funds available for the increase in the price of electricity, it is my reply to you to express yourself more clearly and say are there ten times more money at stake, or eight times more money for electricity in the budgets of schools and other educational institutions?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u149	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Should I ask again? There's no other line. Here you go, Mr. Valchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u150	The budget of a school is relatively simple. I therefore urged every member of the Parliament to go to a director of an educational institution and see. The spending standards were increased by the budget between 11 and 12%, but they also contain remuneration, and they also contain maintenance. In other words, it was secured. The 12 percent increase in wages and the increase in maintenance... [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] No, it's not 12%, it's 10, but because the cost of maintenance is 20%, of which, let's say, on average, one quarter is for electricity, that is, less than 2% of the cost standards have been increased. At the same time, we will have between 10 and 20% increase in total budget expenditure only because of increased electricity prices. This is the elementary account, i.e. the budget has at best compensated a fifth, four fifths will be at the expense of the additional remuneration of workers in educational institutions. The same is the picture in other budgetary organisations. Make it this simple account, it's not that complicated. Again, take a budget of an educational institution and see that what you are doing is bleeding out budget organizations and businesses right now. Because a third compensation mitigates the impact, if it's a quadruple increase, it makes it triple, but there's no reserve for a triple increase.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u151	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Next up is Ramadan Atali. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to get back to the subject on which perhaps all Members of Parliament are expecting a decision today. Not that GERB suggested it, but the price situation of the energy carriers before the war was unpredictable and now.. during the war, they become double, triple, quadruple unpredictable. If you are following, the European Union, the European Committee yesterday on their page came up with a decision and issued a communication to the European Parliament, to all institutions, about urgent price action. Colleagues, this means that today we, in order to keep up with our partners in the European Union, even though the decision was proposed three months ago, today all countries that are members of the European Union are committed to urgent price action. The European Union gives several guidelines on what and how to do about what you are asking, where the funds should be taken. Look, the European Union says it how and how it should be done. Except the other night, this fun that was in the deputy prime ministers, it's gone today. Today is a very serious day, this point is very serious.. does not concern those who should understand energy deeply or deeply do not understand energy. Cleanly and simply our Parliament today, in accordance with European requirements, must do so that all those municipal enterprises, and I will allow myself to list the decision and what we should take as a decision and you should then tell us why you do not want to support this decision. Once again, I'm sorry that Mr. Dobrev stole our idea from them, but you, if you don't support him, can't explain why you won't support this decision. The only argument I can think of is maybe that you don't have mayors, because you always want to be connected to someone, or Kiro, or Asen, or to a happy sister. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] The solution, fellow Members, is to make sure that a compensatory mechanism is prepared to compensate in full for the full amount of the full amount! The municipal enterprises. Where do you guys live in the municipalities, right? Municipal commercial companies, including kindergartens. Tell me: kindergartens and nurseries, nursing homes and other municipal social institutions. I specifically address the BSP for social institutions at least get involved! These establishments don't make a profit. They have nowhere to cover the triple, quadruple increase in the price of electricity and expect from us, expect from you who voted for you, for us, for GERB, for all here, today to decide how and in what way the elderly homes can turn on the heating and heat or not turn out their lights at night. That's what this is about. Hospitals. Professor Mihailov was a hospital manager for a long time. I turn to him because here, a colleague who had a lot of interest in engineering technology is not in the room and was not the director of hospitals. You know right now what kind of hospital they are in and we don't want anything from you, colleagues! Cleanly and simply you must support, as Europeans say. We have so far thought that these profits are being over-profited, and they Europeans have said that they were unexpected profits and purely and simply from these unexpected profits from green energy. We will submit a bill on how and in what way it will happen, because you are not doing it, from the price that TPP 2 earns, all coal power stations are American, including those nuclear power plants that are currently making unexpected profits. Of these profits, fellow Members, the first thing we need to do, Europeans say, is to keep the price of retail energy by confirming the possibility of regulating prices in order to protect consumers and the economy. Do we have a mechanism like this? We do. Will you remove the moratorium so that the regulatory authority can make sure that even if it reduces the price of the regulated market? Even if it slows down! But you had to amend the laws so far so that the regulator could remove the moratorium and affect the prices of the economy and municipal enterprises, municipal institutions, kindergartens, nursing homes. Then even Europeans, fellow Members, say we offer you, give you guidelines on temporary tax measures on unexpected profits. We'll also introduce bills in this direction. Let us not now believe that if we reduce VAT only on oil fuels, how much will remain in the budget funds that can affect all these funds that you are currently looking for! Dear colleagues, for universities, schools, including student dorms, do any of you mind not being compensated? Don't you have students? [[(Radio by..) We continue the Change........................................................................................)]] You do! However, to go out and try to protect something that is not protective, you are going into a situation where you have no arguments not to support this decision, and yet you persist and go out with all sorts of rhetoric, municipalities, public, and let alone what things are going on next. Colleagues, including in the urgent actions and additional measures proposed by the European Committee, taking everything that is happening very seriously, along with the war and energy shortages, taking into account the short-term decisions that our government is making lately, I will ask you at least that Parliament be at that height to support municipalities, to support nursing homes, to support those who have no profit in their activities, to be able to cover their costs. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u153	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. The line, Mr. Dobrev. After Mr. Dobrev I'll give you a line, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u154	Mr. Atalay, there are funds. I said that in March alone, the extraordinary profit that you are talking about at the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" "Kozloduy" is 1 billion. lv. I mean, one billion a month. lv. There is. All you have to do is take that money and come back, because they're being seized because of the conjuncture. It's a bit like the two pockets of pants you take from one pocket to return to the other. The business and the state we are one, and when the state has taken more, 10 times more than normal, from business, it is right that this money should return it to him. And it's not about budget money, it's about energy money. And your idea of additional taxation on the advice of the European Commission, we discussed it this morning, and I think it's a good idea, but I think you should develop it so someone doesn't steal it from you again. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Denitsa Simeonova, second line. And Mr. Tabutov, third. [[(Replication of the National Representative Denitsa Simeonova:]] Mr. Tabutov for a line, and then procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, following your request to explain why I will not personally support this proposal, I will make my case. First, I will also tell you about other information that the European Commission said this morning, namely that reducing the temperature in public buildings and offices throughout the European Union by only one degree would result in a 12% reduction in Russian gas consumption. [[Radio.]] So this is basically a kind of measure that, without additional monetary compensation, can in any way stimulate whether it is offices or municipalities to reduce electricity bills. And I don't understand why a mayor who invested in energy efficiency should be punished for being forward-looking and comparing himself to a mayor who thought of something else. And regarding the differentiation of VAT rates, yes, this may be a good practice. I also agree that at the moment the measures taken by the government and parliament are not enough - that is a fact, but we must agree that we are living in unprecedented times.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u157	Already!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u158	I don't think anyone from the opposition or from you has ruled under such circumstances. They are extremely heavy and the constructive tone of all of us and in committee would actually lead to a hearing that, by the way, has. And you, if you think of what happened during the joint committee between the Committee on Energy and the Committee on Budget and Finance, then we changed our original proposal for compensation to non-domestic consumers. So, in my opinion, with joint efforts, we need to reach some measures that are more appropriate to support domestic and non-violent consumers. But I say again, it is unwise for me to support those users 100%. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Mrs. Kirova to alternate the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u160	My line is to you, Mr. Atalay. I sincerely hope you can explain this to me because I did not understand what the reduction in gas consumption has to do with the compensation for electricity of municipalities and non-vibe consumers, and what does the reduction by these compensations for municipalities have to do with which mayors punish? I sincerely hope that you, as a longtime member of the Committee on Energy and a man who deals with this matter and is absolutely aware of those things that I am just learning as a Member of the National Assembly, will explain this relationship to me. And if you could return us to the debate on the proposal made by the group of GERB-SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Mr. Atalay, would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dobrev, I know you won't steal what we discussed with you. They'll tell you something else, and that's why you won't touch it, I know, and the others won't think of it yet. Dear colleagues, let's get back to the subject. The decision proposed by Mr. Asen Vassilev to get out of that cabinet today and not to travel early overseas in the morning, but to come here in parliament so that we can solve the problems of the elderly homes, the cultural institutions, the nursery so that you too can not worry by going out on this stage how and in what way to try to disprove me. The difference between you and me, Mr. Tabutov, is that I read the European pages at night, you read them early in the morning. [[Radio in "We are continuing the Change" in DPS.]] Now, I'm sure it's pushing you inside and you're wondering all of the first line how to press the green button and agree and accept this thing. If I must, I would suggest that you call the Prime Minister, call Mr. Vassilev, I keep forgetting the name of the merry lady, and make a decision! And to make a decision in the interests of BSP, to make a decision in the interests of the PP, the ITN, to be against the decision of GERB, yours to be, but to make sure that municipalities and institutions, especially the elderly homes, are given the opportunity to heat up. And as for the Russian gas, you had to read from last night to see how and in what way you need, in the fastest way, energy efficiency, what we have been waiting for is not happening, you have to do it, you have to let the municipalities, you have to remove the notification mode immediately, put panels on your rooftops. But all this you have to do. It's in my language to tell you, but I'm going to ask you, Tabutov is very bad in our ranks as a family, don't replicate me, you can't get into the subject. Don't, because Russian gas is a painful subject not only of the PP. Russian gas is a painful theme, a world theme. Gas, war in Ukraine is also a global issue, but we want to solve Bulgaria's problems today. Get in there! Please! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u163	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Now Mrs. Simeonova for a procedure and then I'll read you which ones have been recorded so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Perhaps you didn't notice the popular representation, there were visiting students in the hall just now, during the speech of the longtime MP Mr. Atalay. He used a very insulting qualification to members of the executive power in my opinion and you did not make a remark to him, he even decided to repeat it in his duplicate. [[Noise and lines.]] I believe that such a language should not be allowed as MPs, and that is not what we should show to the young people visiting here. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. I take the note, but since more offensive things have been heard, I've decided to pass this time. [[Laughter, noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u166	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u167	I haven't witnessed any more of those events Mr. Atalay quoted. Now I want to read who are recorded so far so that you have some idea, and if we have missed someone to add it: Zhecho Stankov, Desislava Atanasova, Alexander Nenkov, Desislava Ganeva, Tsoncho Ganev, Rumen Hristov. [[Reply.]] Are you speaking too? Okay, we're finishing you up. Now Zhecho Stankov has the floor. I don't know how much you have, maybe 7 - 8 minutes GERB, I don't know. . [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS]] As far as we're concerned, I think... Ten minutes more from GERB, keep it in mind, because there are four or five recorded. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] We've already asked and it's extended. [[Reply from the National Representative Zhechko Stankov: "We have asked for an extension of the time."]] Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Well, a month and a half has aged our proposal before we can debate it in the Chamber, a month and a half, in which 20 meetings took place, a month and a half, in which the day was the shortest part of the year and a very large number of municipalities and small settlements remained in the dark. It certainly turned out that this was not on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Governments and therefore could not be discussed. Moreover, when colleagues spoke in their main social functions of both municipalities and elderly homes, schools, kindergartens and so on, it was not noted that municipalities could not even benefit from tax credit. In other words, for them there is no way that even this aid that is being granted to them at the moment should be sufficient because they have to pay VAT on these 550 leva, which they received as electricity bills, and when we compensate them with only 130 leva, they continue to pay some over 400 leva. plus VAT on which they cannot benefit from a tax credit. And notice, they had stopped asking for that help. On the contrary, the municipalities did not stop asking for this help. The municipalities explained to the population that this year they will not be able to make their capital investments because that money has already been rerouted to cover electricity bills, but to keep paying their employees. Moreover, it was said that if we lower the temperature in the rooms, see if we replace the street lighting, yes, street lighting is a great replacement procedure. We noticed it at the moment when at the Ministry of Energy we gathered over 100 municipalities that expressed such a desire. We have provided funds for 20 such ones and we have signed in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan to finance not only those who are the queues, but also all the others who are willing in the future. Unfortunately, however, you cut the money for street lighting in the Plan. And apparently, in the direction that people are going, not just to stay in the dark in the streets, but we need to start handing out sweaters and whispers in nursing homes and in hospitals, so that we can barely save on heating funds. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u169	Thank you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u170	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u171	Let's see if we can see from the other groups first. I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. To remind you that lines count in the time of your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u172	Mr. Stankov, you're wrong. This temperature in the rooms is very correct, even if we reduce by 10 degrees, there will probably be no need to warm up at all and we will not spend electricity and we will solve the problem entirely, although there are still certain regulatory requirements, especially in social institutions, for a certain temperature inside the premises, as there are probably such requirements for this room for information of the colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u173	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you are, Mr. Stankov, to clarify this matter. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you didn't say that sarcastically, because I also heard laughter from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u175	No, no, I...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u176	Mr. Dobrev, in the room we can reduce the temperature by as much as we want, as long as the current managers had understood that the program for renovation of the single-family residential buildings should continue, and it should have continued since last year. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Because that's what the people sent us here for. Helping them reduce their electricity and heat bills is possible through renovation. As Mr. Atalay said, if the current government understood that we also needed authorisation for the panels on the blocks, on the single-family residential buildings, if you would on the roofs of the businesses, only with notification, we wouldn't be having these heavy compensation talks at 100%, 75% and as many as they are. However, the point is that the things that you yourself, as a representative of the National Assembly, repeatedly drew even on the flipper, what needs to be done to ease the price of electricity, which is not accepted by the government. Every suggestion in time, not taking advantage of it in time, became so unusable that they entered a spiral in which I do not know if they are aware of it themselves. But the important thing is that now is the moment to think, and the issue of municipalities is getting more and more up-to-date because, when the moratorium for domestic consumers is dropped, we enter the spiral in which the business is placed under these blows, we see the price of oil, and that hits the citizens' pocket. We talked to our colleagues in agriculture about what will happen to the price, if you will, and the milk, which will be appreciated a little later by oil. But at the end of the day, we have to think about all the municipalities and the business, and not least about the people who sent us here, because this is our top priority, not about how to give them sweaters and whispers, so that they can go to the hospital or... [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . I'm sorry the students left because they were wearing white shirts themselves in parliament, and they'll probably have to wear sweaters in their classrooms. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u177	Thank you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u178	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u179	For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u180	Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal, as my colleague suggested, that we set an example here for the entire Bulgarian society and reduce the temperature in this room by 10 degrees to get rid of Russian dependence. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u181	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I'm just afraid that at some point we're gonna have to turn on the air conditioning to cool down and we're still gonna have to spend electricity. So maybe not 10 less, but we'll turn it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u182	Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u183	Five, I think is acceptable. We'll tell the chairman. We continue with Mrs. Atanasova's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u184	Mr. Nenkov first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u185	Mr. Nenkov, first you give in to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, unfortunately, today's discussion is very late, all the more so that we are aware that the ruling majority will not support the solution we have proposed. The worst part is that you government feel that the opposition is your great enemy, no, on the contrary. Your great enemy is the circumstances and the fact that either out of incompetence or out of misunderstanding or simply out of pure stubbornness you do not want to understand the situation you are facing. And that's why I say it's not the opposition that's your enemy, it's the opposition that's what's happening. You wanted an opposition to be constructive. Well, more constructive than this proposal, to tell you the truth, I would hardly have thought of. [[Reply from.. Continue Change.......................................................................................................]] No one blamed you for the price of the energy carriers rising. You never heard it from us. We say that the price is what it should be because there is a market because we are an open economy, and the government's job is actually to compensate for this particular difference. A while ago, when we were having another such debate about how to compensate non-bit consumers, I mean business, one of the arguments of the government was that it was not an argument, but a thesis about the measures having to be, it was very important to be timely. You then rejected this proposal. Now you are about to reject what actually concerns all budgetary organisations. I want one of the government to come out and tell us what is the timely measure you have made? You guys are running after events. That's the truth. I'll tell you why. Because here's an example of a proposal to buy wheat and grain. Then tomorrow the price will be on the oil impossible. You'll buy and you'll probably get involved in the oil market. Then there'll be cheese, cheese, milk and so on. Any first-rate products that you, since you dropped the spirit from the bottle, will be wondering what to do now. Because if you had previously accepted a proposal, but not our proposal, which is really relevant to the situation, you had compensated the business if you had now compensated, I suppose you would have rejected our proposal if you compensated the budgetary organisations that could not increase their price of the service because they did not provide this service. What, how, and in what way, would a church temple compensate itself with candle prices? What, how to bear his own expenses? And it is precisely because of the lack of adequate thinking and the lack of a pure stubbornness sample that, for example, the opposition has offered you something, that you tend to close your eyes and move on. Just so you know, guys, things are getting out of hand. I don't know if you realize that, but it's good to know. Before you were guilty of the 12 years of GERB, which, again, I say, are not 12, but less. Now I see we're starting to get to the point that this is the war. Yes, it is. No one has accused you that the price of electricity is BGN 1000. of megawatt, only that you are the ones who have to take this responsibility and find a way to compensate for both domestic consumers. Because, see, the government of a country is largely, any government, I don't know what the percentage is, but the huge percentage of its time is to minimize damage from different crises, whether it's going to be a horse, whether it's going to be a migrant wave, whether it's going to be something else. We are now facing an unprecedented situation on a global scale, but this does not mean that the government should abdicate and seek some global conspiracy that everyone is against, you see, against this government, but to find the right mechanisms and people, the business to feel that there is someone behind them, and not to run after the events and buy, to interfere in some free market with this example of the example I give with wheat and grain. That's why, fellow Members, it's really your responsibility. Not the opposition is your enemy. You are your enemy to yourself. Look for him with you. Not with us. I thought really frankly that blaming, not to look at this point for almost two months, was in order for you to offer something better. But you're not suggesting anything. You were only wondering how not to get to that point. Well, today came this point after two months and I have to tell you that it's really late. Even if you accept it, I think it's already too late because, as I said earlier, the spirit from the bottle has come out. So, colleagues, there is really little time left, show some sense and show that this country has not abdicated, because you are the ones who govern, you are responsible, and you will ultimately bear the damage of this. Your constituents are... not only your constituents, you are ruling the entire country, including the voters of the opposition, the rulers, so understand this thing and support one thing, I dare you to say, a good decision that will give breath to all the budgetary organizations, if you can, think about it better, but do it. Don't bury your head in the sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u187	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u188	Mr. Nenkov, you have said many things, but perhaps you have missed one of the arguments of the government that energy efficiency can be improved. You must be familiar with programs, measures that can improve energy efficiency, so schools, hospitals, social institutions up to two or three months start paying three times less. I hope you will share them to hear them here all principals of schools, social institutions and medical institutions how to improve their energy efficiency three times, because three times the electricity bills have been increased after compensation. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Most of them are sanitized.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u189	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Mr. Nenkov, with interest we will hear these measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u190	Mr. Valchev, I understand from the statement of the government that it is actually the task of living in darker, colder, and perhaps we will soon have to live on hunger, so that we can also master the price shock of the prices of the first-rate products. That's what I found out. How will he support the ruling majority? Here the counterthesis, for having to finance energy efficiency, is that it has already been several months. Where, Mr. Valchev, did you see some measure, some program, funding, if you will, to encourage this opportunity to have better energy efficiency? Well, no, I won't! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The recovery plan is somewhere on logs, there's not a penny in the budget for energy efficiency. Now the colleagues come out and say, well, there must be energy efficiency. But it doesn't go by itself, colleagues, you just have to take this step forward. One of your biggest mistakes is that you have stopped and are not about to continue the Energy Efficiency Program of multifamily residential buildings. This is a good measure, which has no political taste, it is only for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian business. If you had, if you had continued, if you had invented even a better version of this thing, I would have admitted: this is really a good measure that actually compensates for the high prices of energy carriers. Alas! We're not gonna see a program like this this year. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u191	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Tsoncho Ganev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u192	Mr. Chairman, the debates we were supposed to have a few months ago only happen now. It is extremely worrying because the energy price crisis is not from today and yesterday, not even from November. Since autumn the business has paid in times higher electricity bills, since autumn the business is facing the edge. I don't know how many of us here realize what genocide this is about business. A business that covers both large producers or traders, a business that also covers small family companies. Against this background, the majority refused for months to do anything in this regard.................................................................................... is commented and so far. This is the first time we've come to this endlessly late debate, and worse yet, it's a predestined end. I can't understand the ruling coalition in any way, and I can't even think of acquittaling it for the whole thing that it does, except with one stubbornness and proving that it won't become what it's being offered by any other outside the four parties that are the obvious coalition. It is not normal for this to happen because, again, I say, if I am going to understand you, not to justify you, but I will understand that you want to punish the mayors of GERB, who have concluded contracts or made public contracts that are detrimental to budgets, and I cannot understand with firm conviction when you refuse to support the business in any way. I cannot understand the difference in your coalition when one deputy prime minister explains and says there will be a development in our nuclear energy, we will develop new capacities, and at the same time the minister of choice strongly refuses this thing as a policy under discussion. After all, do we want to have independent energy, or do we not want to? Does the current coalition want to support the bankrupt business and the disappearing business, or does it not, because the electricity bills are a fact?! If you can explain that no mayor of GERB has come to ask for help from you, how will you explain to the business that cannot handle three or four times higher electricity bills? When we talk about this thing from this tribune, it's easy. We're in the gym, and we say to each other, business gets better, blooms and ties, that's the situation. No, that's not the situation. Again, it hasn't been like this for two or three months. Long before this meeting was established, business is in a difficult situation.. You know it very well. You think when you're collecting huge VAT receipts, that's good? No, it's not good, because inflation is huge. If at this stage you squeeze out the remaining few forces in consumption, at some point consumption will shrink to such a size that it will become frightening. It's gonna get scary! I really cannot understand your stubbornness, given that there are really experts in your coalition, and refusing dialogue, because see, today speak 90% of the cases. The opposition, some of you have spoken in order to replicate and jump to explain how bad the former employees are. An undisputed fact! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] What did you change? Nothing at all. All this stuff that's been going on in previous governments is happening right now. In no way did any of you become to say: in agreement with the government, we propose this, we will do this, we have such a vision. You have no vision! Again, you have no vision for absolutely nothing. Let someone from your coalition become supposed here there are former energy ministers of BSP, there are specialists in other areas of your suppose I don't know, it's not a party, we continue the Change, for.. Democratic Bulgaria.......... there is nothing to comment on there by liberals. The question is, however, what are you doing as energy experts, what are you proposing in general that it should happen? Hiding under the rug and explaining how everything is perfect. No, it's not perfect. We already have double-digit inflation, just because you're buying the numbers, you're denying that it's galloping. Yeah, that's exactly what galloping inflation is! You're hiding, and you think you have a little bit more revenue in VAT, and that will save you. No, it won't save you! What's disturbing and scary is that no expert from you has come up and offered solutions. You have no solutions for absolutely nothing of what we are commenting on at the moment except to spit on the previous rulers. Nothing and none of you got up to say: this is our vision, this is our policy, we have to impose it and we will change that. No, nothing at all! On the contrary, you protect community interests. You refuse to negotiate anything or start talking with the European Commission, you refuse to support business in any form, and on April 1st these ridiculous benefits expire, what do we do then? Will you wash your hands with the previous rulers? Yes, I say again, a fact is all that has happened, but you are exactly the same. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Don't hint, please, from GERB's group. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! As you know, AGE will support this proposal. It seems to us a little angro, for Canadian colleagues, because we would be much more pleased to support their proposal, made by their ministers, who are currently in the Council of Ministers, manage the ministries, have all the data that enable them to make quite accurate estimates of what, why, how, and how much to be supported, because in the end money is not taken from the trees. Yes, in the European Central Bank they print them, but not in our Bulgarian. We always move from one pocket to another. We're doing some damage in one place, reducing damage at the expense of another place. We really have brought our people to a situation where we do not have any opportunity at all hospitals, social institutions, kindergartens, schools, they need what we are currently discussing here, what GERB has proposed. Yeah, honor and respect, they offered it with some kind of wholesale fixed 100% for budget and 75% for business. I would be more pleased to see figures, such as 39.7%, which, however, stand behind some readings, someone has thought about what to do and how to do. It is clear that this vote is well known, but I would like to ask you to take a look next year at this time when we will most likely be back where we are, because there is no change and the change is boxing. After all, we have problems in energy. We will have problems from which we need to recalibrate the entire system at all.. not be so that some oligarchs become rich at the expense of all consumers, at the expense of the business, at the expense of the bankrupt businesses, which will close because they will not be able to find customers for their non-competitive production. So, I'm asking you very much, if at least a little bit of intelligence has remained in the Coalition's heads, think about what you're doing and really accept this proposal. To swallow that it is from GERB and accept it, to support it, as we from the age with our teeth tight will support it. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u195	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Atalay, for procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I propose to include the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio so that we can see today who is helping the public through municipalities and municipal enterprises and social institutions in Bulgaria. It's my procedure. I'll apologize to Mrs. Simeonova, if I've offended you, I apologize if I've said anything that isn't true, and I apologize. I don't think I've attached any nicknames to the gentlemen here. I think you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u197	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Let's not get into this anymore. Is there a reverse offer? None Mr. Atalay, BNT 2 after all, or BNT 1? [[Heckling]] Come on, let's make it BNT 2. There's a suggestion, I assume, that's just for this point, isn't it? Let's turn on BNT 2 cameras and turn on a direct broadcast from BNR of the vote on this point. Please vote procedure. Mr. Ivanov? Is Mr. Kalin Ivanov online?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u198	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u199	Abstained, okay. A total of 193 MPs voted: 88, against 23, abstentions total 82. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the Decision to introduce a full-scale compensatory mechanism for non-bit final customers on the electricity market of faiths, municipalities, social structures, education, healthcare. Colleague Online? Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u200	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u201	A total of 194 MPs voted: for 89, against 9, abstentions total 96. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u202	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u203	Please re-vote. Colleague Online? Kalin Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u204	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u205	A total of 199 MPs voted: for 86, against 8 abstentions total 105. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF A TRISTAL CONFERENCE OF AND BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND BOSNA AND HERZEGOVINA AND PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURE GMBH ON THE MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION OF THE DONATION OF VOXIN AGAINST COVID-19, Developed by PFIZER INC. AND BIONTECH MANUFACTURING GMBH AND A COUPLE AGREEMENT FOR A DONATION BETWEEN BULGARIA AND BOSNA AND HERZEGOVINA. Report from the Committee on Health. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 47-202-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 3 February 2022, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of a Tripartite Grant Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Grant Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 47-202-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Petar Gribnev, representatives of the Ministry of Health, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. I'm not gonna read the specifics, I'm gonna give it to you. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 15 against none, abstention 1, the Health Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill for ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19, developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 47 202-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u207	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. Report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. You're welcome to present it, as well, without all the details of who said what.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u208	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Agreement on donation between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 47-202-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022. At its regular meeting held on 2 February 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed a Draft for ratification of a Tripartite Grant Agreement between and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of a vaccine against COVID-19 developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech Manufacturing GmbH and a Bilateral Grant Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 47-202-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Health: Assoc. Prof. Dr. Lyubomir Bakalivanov, Deputy Minister, Ms. Katya Ivkova, Director of the Directorate of Coordination and International Cooperation and Ms. Polina Dencheva. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Lyubomir Bakalivanov, who indicated that the agreements are subject to ratification and provide for the Republic of Bulgaria to donate 258 570 doses of Somirnati vaccine with an expiration date of 31 March 2022 produced by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH. Bulgaria has taken action on donations of surplus amounts of vaccines in order to prevent the destruction of pandemic vaccine due to failure and to help ensure equal access worldwide to vaccines against coronavirus. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Nikolina Angelkova, Anna Alexandrova, Krum Zarkov and Andrei Mihaylov. The MPs Nikolina Angelkova and Anna Alexandrova addressed the representatives of the Ministry of Health with questions about the reason why it has come to the donation of vaccines, is it at stake in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 buying new vaccines and what budget is envisaged. Ms. Nikolina Angelkova pointed out that an information campaign is needed to promote vaccination. Ms. Anna Alexandrova said she will not support the proposed bill, provided that a budget is planned to buy new vaccines and simultaneously donate the available ones. Mr. Krum Zarkov said he would support ratification. Mr. Andrej Mihailov pointed out that the choice is clear and it comes down to destroying vaccines due to expiration or donating them. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, with 12 votes for the Council, with no votes,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kyosev. I'm opening the discussion on the Project. I can't see. We're closing the discussion. I put to the vote a bill for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on donation by and between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH on the management and coordination of the donation of the vaccine against COVID-19, developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH and a bilateral donation agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 47 202-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 January 2022. We are voting at the first reading of this bill. Colleague online, Mr. Kalin Ivanov, how do you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-03-10.u211	We'll wait a little longer, please invite the colleagues who are in the hallway. [[The President Nikola Minchev enters the room.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Minchev's voice won't help the case. Cancel the vote. The discussion is closed. I propose that the vote will take place on tomorrow. We will clarify this with the President of the National Assembly, and he could possibly propose it as an item on the agenda tomorrow to start the day. Before we finish, I must read the parliamentary control message on 11 March 2022. Tomorrow the following representatives of the government will respond: - Deputy Prime Minister of EU Funds and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev will answer three questions from the MPs Aleksandar Ivanov and Toma Bikov; Tsoncho Ganev; and Nikolina Angelkova and one question from the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva; - Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Policy and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov will answer one question from the MP Evgenia Alexieva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development and Public Works and Minister for Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov will answer three questions from the MPs Ilin Dimitrov two questions; and Emil Georgiev; - the Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov will answer four questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva two questions; Irena Anastasova; and Andrey Chorbanov; - Foreign Minister Teodora Gencovska will answer one question from the MP Alexandra Korcheva; - Minister of Defence Dragomir Zakov will answer four questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Ivan Totev and Stefan Shilev; and Hristo Gajev - two questions; - Culture Minister Atanas Atanasov will answer five questions from the MPs Krasimir Valchev; Stefan Shilev; Yavor Bojankov; Boyko Klechkov; and Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev; - Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov will answer four questions from the MPs Stoyan Taslakov; Petar Kulenski; Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan; and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer one question from the MP Branimir Balachev; - Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will answer a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova and a question from the National Representative Elena Guncheva; - Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer two questions from the MPs Kostadin Angelov; and Kiril Simeonov and one question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer four questions from the MPs Petar Petrov; Boyko Klechkov; Elhan Kulkov; and Zornitsa Stratieva, Alexander Dunchev and Miroslava Petrova; - Minister of Tourism Hristo Prodanov will answer a question from the MP Nikolina Angelkova; - The Minister of Internal Affairs Boyko Rashkov will answer fifty-one questions from the MPs Hairi Sadakov, two questions; Elhan Kulkov; Pavlin Krastev; Adlen Shevked - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Gokov will answer a question from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Ahmed Ahmedov and Hassan Ademov. On the basis of art. 92, para. 4 of the MNS for lack of respectable reasons to Members of the National Assembly shall be postponed the answers to: - a question from the MP Vladimir Marinov to the Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov; - four questions from the MP Blagovest Kirilov to the Minister of Electronic Governance Bozidar Bojanov. We're adjourned. Next plenary session tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
