ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Under the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 25 May 2022, as follows: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importers are Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. Adopted in the first vote on 21 April 2022. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Importers are Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs. Adopted in the first vote on 21 April 2022. 3. Draft decisions on changes in the compositions of Standing Committees. The importer is Halil Letifov. 4. Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021 5. First vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill. Importers are Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. 6. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2021 7. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination in 2021 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. 9. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January 30 June 2021. Importer is the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Adopted in the first vote on 26 January 2022. Point one for Thursday. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, Friday at 9.00 p.m. Five hours of parliamentary control. This is the project, colleagues, please, voting regime. Vote 192 MPs: 127 against 47, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals for inclusion in the Programme on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first proposal is from the MP Desislava Atanasova and is for inclusion in the Programme of the Draft Decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the government's signed memorandum of 1 billion. Dollar with Gemcorp IP3 Corporation. We are voting on the proposal of GERB-SDS. Vote 196 MPs: 78 against 99, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov, Fatme Ramadan and Petar Chobanov. The proposal is to include in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly this week a bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. We are voting on the DPS proposal. They voted 195 MPs: 66, against 51, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Procedure? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, inflation is now close to 20%. The profit of state-owned enterprises, if you have read, is above 528% of the nuclear power plant and 720 percent of BEH. The money collected in the first quarter by the unpredictable profits of state-owned enterprises is over one billion in the first quarter. Green energy, with which we support businesses and their producers, despite the aid of high energy enterprises, receive aid and from the production of green energy of 100 megawatts receive an additional amount of more than 300 million in the first quarter. I don't understand what else we have to offer you.! I am ashamed that we offer to help you understand that this is not how you steal. You've turned everything into a pickpocket. [[Radio, applause by DPS and GERB-SDS.]] Let us adopt this bill, allow Mr. Vassilev to legally spend about three billion every quarter. Now they're illegal for buying wheat, for... They take the money from the highway and we don't know what they're spending it on?! Please, I don't know, I'm already embarrassed to ask you to bring order and legality into what you came to power for. Thank you. Be careful! Revoting! There will be no other vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u3	Okay, we're rethinking the proposal. They voted 198 MPs: 69, against 48, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the third proposal made in the order of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, and it is from the National Representative Petar Petrov, to include in the Programme a bill amending the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the proposal being the item to be 11 on the agenda and fixed, etc. Two for Thursday. This is the proposal of the MP Petar Petrov. Voting mode. Vote 194 MPs: 57 against 67, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. Procedure by Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am proposing to you. Two off the agenda. I'm gonna argue, and why? The proposal made by Mr Atalay and was not accepted to be part of the agenda was submitted on 31 March 2022 and under the Rules of Procedure, and it is common practice of the National Assembly when there are different laws tabled for amendments to the same law at first reading to be considered together. However, this lobbying law, which serves private interests, was introduced on 11 March and at first reading was adopted on 21 April, after there was already another bill to solve the problems of Bulgarian citizens and businesses in this crisis situation. And what's the score? Lobby law gets a fast track in violation of regulations. For this reason, Mr President, I would ask you to let the Constitution and the laws of the country finally apply, to start applying, not to matter who is proposing, not what are the rules and laws. Therefore, I propose that point two be dropped so that we can put in normal order, once at least, the actions of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u5	Thank you, Mr. Karadayi, but point two is the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Renewable Energy Act, and the proposal of Mr. Atalay and a group of MPs concerns an amendment to the Energy Act. I just note that different regulations are being amended, it is not the same. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to drop point two on a proposal from Mustafa Karadayi. Vote 197 MPs: 68 against 108 abstentions 21. The offer is not accepted. Now I'm going to read you some messages: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria has adopted Decision No 327 approving the taking-up by the Italian Republic of the role of the framework state of a combat group and authorising the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a political-military nature of the armed forces of NATO member states in connection with the implementation of allied obligations in the composition of the battle group on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Decision approves the taking over by the Italian Republic of the role of the Framework State of the Battle Group, the construction of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under Decision No 108 of the Council of Ministers of 2022 to participate in an operation to enhance NATO defence potential to protect the territorial integrity of NATO member states. To this end, military troops of the Italian Republic armed forces in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be allowed to participate in the combat group with the necessary weapons, equipment and equipment for the duration of the operation of the combat group. In order to participate in the combat group, military formations of the armed forces of the Republic of Albania in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with the necessary weapons, equipment and equipment for the duration of the operation of the combat group shall also be allowed. The composition of the battle group is expected to receive contributions from the armed forces and other NATO member states. After taking over the role of the Framework State of the Italian Republic, Bulgaria will reduce its contribution to the battle group. Our country's responsibilities will also be linked to providing support as a host country. The notification was received on 23 May 2022 with entry No 47-202-00-34 and was made available to the Defence Commission. Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. On the basis of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, the National Assembly has informed that a joint pilot training will take place in which it will participate: - from the US Air Force aircraft and servicemen; - and the Dutch Air Force aircraft and servicemen. The flight training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as activities to prevent military action conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. 2. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the use of an aircraft from the Republic of Bulgaria to the Republic of Croatia and back with crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. 3. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the inland waterways of the Republic of Bulgaria of a military vessel of the composition of the Romanian Navy. The notifications were received on 20 May 2022 with entry No 47-203-09-53, 54 and 55, respectively, and were made available to the Defence Committee. Reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets were received in the National Assembly on 31 March 2022 from: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, National Security Service, Central Election Commission, Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ministry of Interior, State Fund of Agriculture, Communications Regulation Commission and Ministry of Youth and Sport. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. For declaration I give the floor to Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u6	Mr. Chairman! Infinitely many hopes and faith were given by the Bulgarians to the political elite, who did not give up to betray them, lied and sold the Bulgarian national interests. For 32 years we have been living a lie in the lie of people who have settled comfortably in the chairs of power, gain a sense of inaccessibility. The current government of the quadruple coalition has mastered the habit of using political lies by its predecessors. It turned out, however, that surprisingly the student surpassed the teacher. According to young and inexperienced, the politicians from "We continue the Change" learn slowly, but at the same time they lie quite effectively. Today is another betrayal. Our finance minister is preparing to submit to the Council of Ministers for approval a plan for the adoption of the euro from 1 January 2024, and in parallel, it is possible to vote on a modest 10 million. BGN to pay an advertising agency to undertake a propaganda campaign suggesting that the euro will make us richer. And while lying skillfully to us that with the adoption of the euro, rivers of gold, honey and milk will flow here and there will be times of prosperity, the Bulgarian people are impoverished and weak. The bills of electricity, food, fuel, gas, water grow, and not in the hypocritical and false idea of the government, but in reality. While the government of the quadruple coalition is lying to us that we will receive cheaper US liquefied gas, most of the European countries are currently restarting their economies and agreeing to pay gas according to the new conditions set by the Russian Federation. The government lies to us that they want us to pay the gas in rubles, and in fact the condition is simply to pay it in a Russian bank. The government lies to us that with the introduction of the euro, we will become richer, and there is actually no country that has become richer with this currency. However, there are countries that, like Greece and not only Greece, of course, have become much more dependent. Another political betrayal is to give part of our state reserve as guarantor of the European Central Bank to ensure the stability of the euro and the other part of our government, which is probably both lying and able to absorb. It is also betrayal that our gold reserves continue to be stored in England, where there are two thirds of Bulgarian gold, and here to run the political lie that this is profitable for us, because we cannot keep it in our country anyway. These quick and seemingly thoughtless decisions, covered by political maneuvers and lies, of course, are under the hands of foreign diplomats. It was no accident that Assistant Secretary of State Karen Donfried and US Defence Minister Lloyd Austin arrived in our country. Both American diplomats arrived without warning at the last minute, as uninvited guests, in violation of protocol as if they were the hosts, and we are the guests of this land. By the way, I am very careful to pronounce their names because I do not want to fall once again into the humiliating situation of the highest tribune in the state of the National Assembly to read a declaration praising a foreign statesman. An involuntary error, language, on my part, in the past week became an occasion for several leanings, another deep bow, to the masters of colonial Bulgaria by one of the ruling parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u7	No such qualifications only, please, Mr. Kostadinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u8	With his praising declarations for the American Vice President, we continue The Change has surpassed the Bulgarian Communist Party, which was reading similar declarations until 1989 again from this tribune, only for other Secretary-Generals of the Soviets. Now for the Americans. The unprecedented humiliation for our people is from the National Assembly's stand to praise foreign statesmen. The place of these praises for foreign diplomats is only the territory of embassies here in our capital, where, by the way, is the place of foreign flags. It is shameful for the Bulgarian government to humiliate the Bulgarian people with the oldest state in Europe. By the way, yesterday was the 24th of May, a day when we had to remind ourselves that we gave the writing to a sixth of the world. And today we are humiliated by a handful of false traitors who keep worshipping this or that master. It is obvious that the Bulgarian government is under pressure and on one other very important issue for us Bulgarians? the adoption of the Republic of Northern Macedonia into the European Union is not just an emotional issue, but a crucial one for us Bulgarians, a question from which we Bulgarians will not give in. We have seen that even the European Parliament in its declaration accepted almost all of our arguments, which clearly and categorically shows that Bulgaria should not be the subject of pressure, but Macedonia, because it does not respect the Neighborhood Treaty. Obviously, when we express our position aloud and clearly, it is understood. But when our government behaves like a servant, we can't be respected because no one loves servants. Our service condemns the people to miserable existence, unemployment, hunger and destruction. We talk about national traitors very often from the age of old. Let me tell you who they are. It is the national traitors who claim that foreign troops will guarantee our national security and not the Bulgarian army. The national traitors are those who claim that the foreign military bases in our country will guarantee our security and not the military units of the Bulgarian army. National traitors are the ones who claim that we must respect community interests in front of national interests. National traitors are those who claim that Bulgaria should be ready even to suffer losses in the name of foreign national interests, but not to defend its national interests. National traitors are those who want to deprive Bulgaria of its financial independence, destroying the Bulgarian lev. National traitors are those who want to bring Bulgaria into a foreign war without being in harmony with the Bulgarian national interest. National traitors are those who continue to ignore the Bulgarians in Ukraine, placed in a humiliating position by the Ukrainian regime. National traitors are the ones who must bear their retribution and punishment, as provided for in the Penal Code of the Republic of Bulgaria, chapter one: "Crime against the Republic." I recall the punishments there are for diversion, espionage, pestry, sabotage and high treason, something that we from the Age promise you that we will do because that is what the Bulgarian people want from us and we will give it to them. That is why the government must resign. He must resign to free the Bulgarian people from hypocrisy and lies. It is high time that we put an end to hypocrisy in Bulgarian politics and that Bulgaria should be governed by Bulgarians, not by national traitors. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u9	Mr. Kostadinov, without limiting your right to present your arguments, however, limit yourself to the use of offensive qualifications within the framework of the declaration. Moving on to point one of the program: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYING EMPLOYMENT. Importers: Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to do a procedure for admission. On the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Mrs. Juliet Varljakova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Iskren Angelov, Director of the Department of Labour Market Policy at the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. We are voting for the persons designated by Mr. Arabadzhiev. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister and the Director of the Department of Labour Policy in the Chamber. Here you are, Mr. Arabadzhiev, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u12	On 17 March 2022, a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act No 47-254-01-29, submitted by Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 21 April 2022. The Law on the Promotion of Employment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Promotion of Employment. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 words are deleted, and after the words............................................).............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Under Paragraph 2, there is a proposal from Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Denitsa Sacheva and Iliana Zhekova, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7a The following amendments and additions shall be 1. In para. 2 after the words....... the ministry of education and science............................................................................... is 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: . (3) For the purposes of the state policy for working with economically inactive persons and for the study and analysis of labour resources in the country, the Employment Agency shall exchange information on persons aged 16 to 65 years with the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Agency for Social Assistance, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, the National Insurance Institute, the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training and the National Expert Medical Commission. The arrangements for the exchange of information and for the joint activities of the institutions shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. A proposal from Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. The first sentence of the sentence is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Law and paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, as presented by the Chairman of the Social Committee Mr. Arabadzhiev. Here's a statement, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! From the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms and at first reading, we supported the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act, we will also support the second vote on the texts proposed between first and second readings and adopted by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, by consensus, with small exceptions. You know that the Employment Agency delivered a report in March with data that more than 900,000 Bulgarian citizens at the time neither study nor work nor are registered in the labour bureaus. That means they're not looking for work. These 900 thousand Bulgarian citizens, of whom, notice, over 170 thousand people are young people between the ages of 16 and 29, point out as the main reason why they should not seek work and study, first because of lack of skills, health problems, family obstacles or barriers due to geographical distance. We will support all proposed and adopted texts by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission between first and second readings because this bill will regulate the information connectivity between the Employment Agency and the institutions of analysis, search and contact with people of working age. Secondly, because you know that in Bulgaria we are currently talking about a demographic crisis, a demographic disaster, and we believe that these over 900,000 Bulgarian citizens are serious potential in the labour market. Another serious argument that we made during the first reading of this bill. We pointed out that 170 thousand people of these people will acquire skills and validate their knowledge and skills that they possess over 900,000 Bulgarian citizens, young people between 16 and 29 years of age. In this way, they can be more competitive in the labour market. Therefore, we supported this bill at first reading by the Parliamentary Group of..........................and we supported this bill at first reading, and we will also support the texts proposed between first and second readings and adopted by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines to Sevim Ali? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am now taking the floor on the proposed bill. I will say a few words on the overall proposal so that I do not take the floor again in the course of the report unless there are any lines needed. Bulgaria faces a number of challenges in the labour market, there is a demographic crisis, and the population decreases dramatically and much faster than other countries. This is a serious risk because potential labour is constantly melting. Inactive people are a serious reserve in the labour market, but currently the Employment Agency reaches a small part of them due to legal gaps. Changes are needed to enable the Agency to actively interact with the institutions of analysis, search and contact with persons who are at work age, but due to lack of skills and other barriers cannot reach its services. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act has been developed to meet the needs of targeted work to activate workers who do not work, study and are not registered in the labour bureaus. They are an essential labour resource in the context of a declining workforce as a result of demographic processes and the expected recovery and increase in demand for workers and specialists in a number of economic activities in the long term. Secondly, the bill also regulates funding from the state budget of active labour market policy, procedures for validating professional knowledge, skills and competences of unemployed persons registered with the employment bureaus, as well as opportunities for obtaining professional qualifications, and providing new opportunities for employment and professional development. By means of validation procedures that will be free of charge for unemployed persons, professional knowledge, skills and competences that those persons have acquired through professional experience on an informal or self-study basis will be established, evaluated and recognised. Between first and second reading we have complied with our changes with all the remarks we have received from the institutions concerned, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Education and Science, the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training and social partners. We have also proposed a change in the Employment Promotion Act as a result of the experience gained by the employment committees from the employers' surveys conducted twice a year for their labour needs. It has been found that two surveys within one year in February and September show no significant differences, and that there is no great dynamics in the employer's forecasts regarding their required staff. That is why we have suggested that these studies be once a year. Changes are also proposed in some of the definitions, such as the appropriate work and the older one. A change of the Health Act is also proposed, which aims to use informational arrays to plan activities related to the employment of persons with permanent disabilities. The current bill will enable a number of defined problems for which the current legislation does not give solutions to the shortage of labour force for the business in Bulgaria, the extremely high number of inactive people of working age, including young people, as well as the opportunities for inclusion of these people in their acquired knowledge and skills on an informal basis. Last but not least, the proposed changes are part of the commitments under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria, which envisages social inclusion measures to be taken by improving access to employment services and strengthening active labour market policies. By thanking the parliamentary groups for the support received at first reading, I hope that we will now be able to rely again on the support of the parliamentary groups and for the second reading so that Bulgaria can conduct a more effective, quality employment and labour policy in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Are there any lines to Denitsa Sacheva? I can't see. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, from the parliamentary group at second reading, will support only paragraphs 1 and 2, as I said from this tribune at the first vote of the Bill, for the simple reason that we believe that we really need to do an analysis of labour, to see all the factors and reasons why these people are not in the labour market and then to take possible measures to stimulate them to return to the labour market because we believe that a large part of these people, as I have said before, are employed in the grey sector. That's very clear to all of us at the time of rebirth. There are also many of them abroad and working abroad. Our labour market, our Ministry of Labour and Social Policy I doubt that it has data on how many of these people work there because some of them are in the gray sector and abroad, however small there is this sector. So there are many reasons why we must first analyse things and then say specific measures to work on to reach the funds to be allocated from the budget to these people so that they can be adequately included in the labour market in the country. We can't put the wagon in front of the horse again in advance, we're saying in advance what we should do with these people before we know their needs. It was the same with people with disabilities, the same way is the situation here. We're doing something that may not be effective afterwards, it may not be right, but let's do it now, let's spend some money, and then we'll see what the effect is and what the guarantees are for...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u19	What are we spending the money on, can you tell me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u20	Mr. Ademov, this is the second time you've interrupted me as I speak from this tribune. It doesn't suit you to be such a big parliamentarians. Not to mention that you DPS have a lot of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u21	Mr. Georgiev, let's leave this discussion alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u22	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, but when I'm interrupted like this, it's not right. We will not support everything further after § 2, in principle, we will not support it because we believe that the appropriate analysis must first be carried out, to see what the needs are and only then to take adequate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a line to Georgi Georgiev? Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Georgiev, my reply is to you because with what you have said and what you have proposed between first and second readings is actually contrary to the logic of the bill that we are importing and will motivate myself why it is so. Paragraph 1 concerns state employment policy, i.e. the main activities to be covered by the Employment Agency are regulated there. Paragraph 2 concerns the exchange of information between the institutions, i.e. this is the information that the Employment Agency will have to obtain in order to then process this information, which is regulated in the following paragraphs, to identify all persons who need to identify who are those persons who are neither learning nor working and who are not registered in the employment bureaus. In practice, what you are proposing means that it is an obligation of the Employment Agency and employees of the Employment Agency to conduct a state policy in the field of work with inactive persons, but in practice they are not given the opportunity by procedures and measures to do so. I think it makes no sense what you are saying, and it is not logical that you do not support the following paragraphs after § 3 because it is in these paragraphs that absolutely all the activities that employees of the Employment Agency have to carry out so that they can reach those who are neither studying nor working are regulated. To know that the person x, y, z, are those persons who neither study nor work, be consulted, motivated to register at the labor desks and then, if they have any skills, to protect their skills by validating these professional knowledge and skills. That's what I have as a line to you. I can hear your arguments, because they seem illogical to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Is there a second line? There are no other lines to Georgi Georgiev. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u26	I have explained several times why we will not support the other part of the bill. It may sound illogical to you, but it doesn't. They're logical, and I made it very clear why I get up a few times and explain why, I guess I should explain it again. We don't usually support the other part. This information needs to be collected. There have been other methods of making direct changes to legislation, so this is what I can tell you. Just because it sounds illogical to you, it's your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For speech Iliana Zhekova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Paragraph 2 concerns the exchange of information between the Employment Agency and the institutions listed in this § 2. It concerns absolutely nothing else, that is, assuming that the institutions will provide the necessary information to the Employment Agency, this means that we collect in an electronic folder all the data about all the persons who provide us with these institutions and stop there. That is, from then on, employees can no longer carry out identification of the persons, if, after that, what we have pledged in the following paragraphs is not realized as their activities. And I would just like to remind you, Mr. Georgiev, I turn to you because the reason for my speech is your previous statement that when a contractor, when an employee has to fulfil certain obligations, certain requirements of the Law, he sits down and reads the Law verbatimly and then fulfils all the provisions as described in the Law. So what you're proposing, and what you're saying again, I'm saying that it somehow contradicts itself and can't be followed by employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u30	Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Zhekova, I honestly don't understand why we keep digging where we're not there right now. We are currently discussing the very beginning of the Bill. In this bill, and at the very beginning, we have said that we support part one and part two, nothing else. From there on, Mr. Georgiev clearly said that we support these things. It is absolutely necessary to make the necessary database. It is not normal right now to continue and make management decisions without having the necessary data.. It is simply not normal, and that is why we support it. But everything else is to be discussed further in the Bill and for everything else we will say why we will not support it. But at this point, I can't understand why we are once again commenting on what we are going to do next is not necessary, and we will give arguments why we will not support them, then everything else that you have tabled as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Any other lines to Iliana Jekova? I won't. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Jekova? No. Any other comments on the title, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3? I won't either. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the bill which is an importer, § 1 in the version of the Commission, § 2 is also in the version of the Commission and § 3 We vote 'em enbloc. They voted 161 MPs: for 161, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u32	Under § 3 there is a proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs. Paragraph 3 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following additions 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 After the words "prognosing the labour market" "search and analysis of labour resources" is added. 2. A t is created. 17: Seventeen. validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences under the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Under § 4 there is a proposal from Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs. Paragraph 4 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Arabadzhiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. A new t. is created. 7. "7." inclusion in a procedure for the validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences. 2. Previously on "T." 7 and 8 are respectively t. Eight and nine. 3. A t is created. 10: ..10. Scholarship, means of transport and accommodation for the time of the procedure for validating professional knowledge, skills and competences
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. I am opening a discussion on paragraphs 4 and 5 according to the Commission's numbering. Are there any who wish to speak in paragraphs 4 and 5? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is § 3 by the numbering of an importer and § 4 by the numbering of the Commission to be dismissed. This proposal by Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs is not supported by the Commission. Please vote on Georgi Georgiev's proposal. Vote 163 MPs: 13 against 140, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the identical proposal of Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 4 by numbering of the importer, respectively § 5 appears on the numbering of the Commission to be dismissed. We vote on Georgi Georgiev's proposal to drop the paragraph. They voted 163 MPs: for 9, against 147, abstentioned 7. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Commission's numbering, which are both in the Commission's version. We vote them in full. Vote 162 MPs: 153 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u34	According to § 5, there is a proposal from Iskren Arabadzhiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 5 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 after the word "Switzerland" is added. 2. In para. 2, p. 4 the words "acquired' shall be replaced by the words "to whom' and the words "to whom' shall be deleted. 3. In para. 3: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." foreigners benefiting from temporary protection under the Asylum and Refugees Act; b) Previous t. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The registration shall be made at a permanent or current address, except for the registration of the persons under para. 3, p. 3. 5. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: . (5) Foreigner benefiting from temporary protection under the Law on Asylum and Refugees may be registered at the address at which he has been established and resided. The address may be verified by an address card of a foreigner, a registration card of an accommodation within the meaning of the Tourism Act, a declaration from the person to whom the person benefiting from temporary protection, a document from the municipality or other document containing the address details. (6) The terms and conditions of registration shall be governed by the rules of application of the law. 6. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 7 and 8. Under paragraph 6, there is a proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 6 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. Under paragraph 7, there is a proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 7 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "acquired right" shall be replaced by "the right" and the words "in the Republic of Bulgaria" or "receipts" shall be deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 Under paragraph 8, there is a proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 8 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Arabadzhiev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. Under paragraph 9, there is a proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 9 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 is created a new item. It's six. targeting a procedure for the validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. I am opening a discussion on § 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 according to the Commission's numbering. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u36	Mr. Chairman, in one of the proposed editorials to create a new para. 5 and 6 says: "An alien benefiting from temporary protection under the Law on Asylum and Refugees may be registered at the address at which he is established and resided. The address can be verified by an address card of a foreigner, registration In fact, at the moment we say that people who have come, for example, from Senegal, from North Africa, from Pakistan or from anywhere, or from Ukraine, coming to Bulgaria, we open the door wide and tell the poorest, Bulgarian, people in the European Union that we will train these people, for example some profession to gain. This is another scheme in which, either close companies to this power or to the next, or I have no idea which, when the European programmes have stopped the means of developing human resources for such trainings, at the moment from the state budget to start training people who, I doubt, will gain any qualification or even get that qualification at all, will then use this knowledge to work. But certain companies will win these public procurements and will start a mass enrollment for training. This is precisely why we at the age of old disagree and cannot agree, provided that only from Ukraine we have 100,000 new people living here, Bulgaria takes care of them, they are accommodated in hotels, we provide them with food and everything they need, and just a large part of them will probably be kindly asked to sign up to say anything in courses. We do not agree with the Bulgarian budget to come up with such funds, given that we are extremely poor compared to any other country in Central and Western Europe and the Bulgarian citizen is failing. That is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. There's a line from Ilin Dimitrov here, Mr. Dimitrov. From Iliana Zhekova, too. I can't see a third line right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u38	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ganev, we are poor because we are uneducated. And we're uneducated because we're poor. We have to break this vicious pattern. Currently, according to the data of large employers' organizations, we are short of 400,000 people and we have decreased by 840,000 people in 10 years. This unpleasant event in Ukraine gives us the opportunity to integrate a group of people - 66% of them are graduates. Of course we'll train them and use them in our economy. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova, for a second line. The third is for Radomir Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ganev, you probably did not understand the proposal, which concerns the change in the Employment Promotion Act. In particular, this proposal concerns only the right of registration of job seekers, including persons who have received temporary protection under the Refugee Act, to also be able to register as job seekers in the employment bureaus and to be able to use the employment agency services. Whether it will come to inclusion in training and to a number of other services that the Employment Promotion Act provides, this is now a completely different look and so on, but we here need to enable those who are fleeing the war who are currently receiving asylum and protection, temporary protection, to have the opportunity to register as job seekers. In fact, it concerns this paragraph, which you say, and the change is in art. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, I think we should not worry, because indeed in the Bill it is about the hypothesis of temporary protection. Temporary protection, if I am not mistaken, is announced by a decision of the Council of the European Union, I think it was and there every country has the right to veto. So there are enough safeguards in the overall legal system for what you say. I think colleagues are currently trying to resolve the operational issue that the country is facing, and I think none of us is opposed to solving it this way. As I say again, to the hypothesis that you are talking about, it is theoretical and there are safeguards that do not allow it to happen. So let's back him up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For the back, Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u44	Mr. Dimitrov, it is nice when you use generalizing expressions, such as that we seem to be referring to the Bulgarians, we are generally uneducated and that we are poor and that we are poor because we are uneducated, to keep them to yourselves or it would be nice to go out in the upcoming election campaign and those people you want to gain trust in, to explain to them that they are uneducated. I will tell you that the Bulgarian is educated and in no way retreats, even outnumbers much of the so-called club of the rich. So in no way will I accept that you insult the Bulgarians. As for what you are referring to, I would like to tell you that it is not only an obligation of this Parliament, of the previous and subsequent parliaments, the obligation of this government and of all other governments is to make Bulgaria prosperous and prosperous, so that more than 2 million Bulgarians who have evacuated from Bulgaria can return. Not what you want to do, not to return to prosperous Bulgaria the Bulgarians, but to do so that people who came from Senegal, from North, Central Africa, from Pakistan, because we have years of such people who have come to Bulgaria under the protection of refugees and Syrians, and they have nothing to do with Syria, and now we have people who have come from Ukraine. Let us make sure that we bring back the Bulgarians from Ukraine who live there, who were born there, to make our country such a place that they will return on their own. And not artificially say we're gonna do programs and start training them, retrain them, or legalize what they have. They're schematics. Mr. Cholakov, there are wonderful mechanisms, I agree. However, for 32 years we have witnessed how these mechanisms are a door in the field and are being circumvented by all governments that have been so far, including by this government. I cannot agree that we will rely on safeguard mechanisms, provided only a year ago we have a series of your governments, then official governments, for half a year we have had this government a door in the field! Door in the field. Everyone does what they want. You have heard today what we are talking about - we will give 10 million to a company that will explain how prosperous it is to have euros in Bulgaria. Well, that's not gonna happen! That's why I'm saying again: we don't have regulatory bodies that really respect and make sure the rules are respected. You saw last week we were discussing another regulatory authority that did one check in one year! The Commission for Protection of Competition - one check! So many checks will do those who now want to open the door to do trainings for these people. So, again, since the Renaissance, we can't agree to this thing. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. To speak, Hasan Ademov. I'm also recording Iskren Mitev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues! My statement is under Paragraph 7. Paragraph 7 in art. 20, para. 4 t. 6 of the law in force says: "In one of the cases where registration in the respective departments of the Employment Agency is terminated. Here, in the current law, it is about those who have acquired the right to a pension. But there is a hypothesis in which you may have acquired a pension and not receive a pension. This text says that when you have a pension right and you receive a retirement pension and age, the registration of the employment agency is suspended. It is quite natural, because one person who has acquired pension rights, why he should be registered in the employment agency's divisions and why he should be looking for work, given that there is another group mentioned earlier, provided that there are 900 thousand who are somehow seeking realization in the labour market. That is why I think it is absurd that the proposal should be rejected because what the colleagues of AGE say: one who receives a pension must continue to be registered in the employment agency's divisions. Why? It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u47	Thank you, Doctor. Are there any lines to Hassan Ademov? Honest Mitev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ademov, I agree with you that there is no logic in the proposals of rebirth, and this is not the first time we have seen this from the stands. The unity that we have heard today say that they think so, and although it is not logical for everyone in this House, that is what they think, so I fully support you. The proposals of rebirth once again are absolutely illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u49	Ilin Dimitrov for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'll make a line to Mr. Ademov. Yes, it is logical and illogical because non-specialists of the age speak as specialists. I don't know if I'm in a conflict of interest because I'm a teacher and head of a career university center, but, Mr. Ganev, look at a PISA rating, there's a description of who's how educated and what. So the proposals that you make are perhaps based on emotion, on an election talk, but certainly they are inadequate at the moment. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Let's hear from Dimitar Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u52	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Ganev, you said a lot of things.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u53	Mr. Nedyalkov, the line is to Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u54	I fully support what you say, Mr. Ademov. We worked together in the Commission on the points we are currently discussing. The representative of the birth was also there, and there did not present in this way the arguments which his colleague put forward in the Chamber, who all the time speaks only about fear in people, to hurt hatred, any such purely inhuman feelings that are very strange to hear from here, behave, please, normally. Let's go ahead. Keep the humanity inside you, you have to help these people, and these people will help us later. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u55	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mr. Ademov, will you find a way not to answer these lines? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just didn't understand why I was using my speech as some kind of springboard to address my colleagues at rebirth. Now, a little more serious. When we make proposals, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of the texts of both the current law and the proposals. In this case, it is obvious that there are some proposals that have nothing to do with the proposed texts. That is why my request is: when proposals are made, to get acquainted with both the texts of the current law and the proposals being made so that we do not get into a situation where we explain why we make ridiculous proposals. This is my request, and otherwise everyone has the right to make any kind of proposal. This is why the discussion in the National Assembly is so that we can understand who in this Chamber can without mistake say the title of at least one social law and then make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u57	Thank you. To make a statement, Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As before, speaking of education, members of the AGE can see very clearly that neither good education nor education are criteria for someone to be part of the National Assembly. Now, by the bill itself. We hear and support the opposition when it is constructive. This has also proved with our support for this bill, which gives arguments against one of the big lies of the opposition that we do not actually support them, not a single proposal of theirs is accepted and that nothing of theirs is heard. Here is this project proposed by Mrs. Sacheva and we see the meaning in it. He's in favor of the whole community and, yes, we support him. This project ensures that more people will participate and develop in the labour market. Real steps, Mr. Ganev, not for training, but for validating knowledge, so if you had read with a little more attention and thought the Bill, you would understand that this does not give training. This gives validation of some already acquired knowledge so that these people can actively and in the best way participate in the labour market. I wish the opposition to use its experience, knowledge and pathos from this tribune not to fuel the crises that are going on in Bulgaria anyway, but to try to make them smaller and make good decisions from the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to Iskren Mitev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion on paragraphs 6 to 10. I put to the vote Georgi Georgiev's proposal to drop § 5 by importer. Vote 150 MPs: 9 against 135, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next unsupported proposal, again by Georgi Georgiev, it is for dropping § 6 by importer, and it is § 7 by numbering of the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 11 against 132, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next unsupported proposal, which again belongs to Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs, for dropping § 7 by importer, and is § 8 by numbering of the Commission. We are voting on Georgi Georgiev's proposal. Vote 152 MPs: 11 against 131, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next unsupported proposal, which again belongs to Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs, and it is for dropping § 8, which becomes § 9. We are voting on Georgi Georgiev's proposal. Vote 156 MPs: 18, against 129, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. There is another unsupported proposal by Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 9 by numbering of the importer, which becomes § 10 by numbering of the Commission. We vote on Georgi Georgiev's proposal to drop the paragraph. Vote 154 MPs: 13 against 132 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. We have exhausted the unsupported proposals and are going to vote on paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 by numbering of the Commission. We vote for them in full: § 6 is in the version of the Commission; § 7 is in the version of the importer; § 8 is in the version of the Commission; § 9 is in the version of the importer; and § 10 is in the version of the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 143 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u61	Proposal by Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 10 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 5 words. 3 and 4 are replaced by 3, 4 and 6 Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 11 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Iskren Arabadzhiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 25 and 26: It's 25. expenditure on financing procedures for the validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences; 26. Scholarship, transport and accommodation expenses of unemployed persons for the time of participation in the procedure for validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 3 words................................................................................. 8 and 9' are replaced (b) To be created t. 17: Seventeen. t uc 25 "of an institution under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Under § 12, there is a proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop paragraph 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 13. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14, following the words "Art." 7a "A" everywhere is added "al." 3.................................................................................. A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 14. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46a the number
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u62	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm opening a discussion. Are there any who wish to comment on the texts so read by Mr. Arabadzhiev? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. I will put to the vote first the proposals which are not supported by the Commission. First of all, the proposal by Mr. Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 10. They voted 147 MPs: 11 against 129, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop the proposal. They voted 142 MPs: 11 against 127, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to be dismissed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 145 MPs: 11 against 130, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop out. Vote 150 MPs: 10, against 136 abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop out. Vote 154 MPs: 11 against 138, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I will now put the following texts to the vote: § 10, which becomes § 11 in the version of the Commission; § 11, which becomes § 12 in the version of the Commission; § 12, which becomes § 13, which is an importer; § 13, which becomes § 14, which is an importer; and § 14, which becomes § 15 in the version of the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 142 against 13, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u63	A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 15. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 16. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 3 is created t. 6: It's six. validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences under the Law on Vocational Education and Training. 2. In para. 10 words "Trainings in the performance of public tasks" shall be replaced by "Public A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 17. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18. A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 18. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Chapter 7, Section II is created art. 66a: Art. 66a. The validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences of unemployed persons directed by the Employment Agency shall be carried out by institutions under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The terms and procedure for organising and financing validation shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Under § 19 there is a proposal from Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Arabadzhiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. They're creating a t. 3a and 3b: 3a. Economicly inactive persons shall be persons aged 16 to 65 who are not insured under art. Art. 4 and art. 4a and they didn't provide insurance under art. 5 of the Social Security Code, are not registered as job seekers under this law and are not in formal education or training. 3b. "Employment resources' are persons aged 16 to 65 years. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the words "public transport" is added "or requested transport" by the employer. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 18 words at the working age shall be deleted and the words shall be aged according to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the "supplier' is replaced by the "supplier's pension and age' according to the "supplier'.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Let's stop here. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion on so-read texts. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u65	Honourable Members, I take the floor on the proposed amendment of § 20 by myself and fellow Members of the National Assembly in relation to the original version of the bill. The fact is that we have many people who are not only unemployed and lack professional skills, but also basic literacy from those targeted by the Bill. If, on the one hand, these individuals need to acquire basic literacy, we are wasting time, staying longer outside the labour market. On the other hand, if we include them more quickly in a form of professional qualifications, we risk them not having the necessary basic literacy to fail to acquire the basic skills that are the subject of the professional qualification. By joining the labour market with low basic literacy, we are risking accidents and many other negative consequences of this, and so we have tried to find the balance. Here we have also taken into account the commentary of the Ministry of Education and Science. We have tried to find the balance, and what we have proposed is to be able to involve individuals over 16 years of age in professional qualification without the necessary input level, but as a condition the output level remains.. the acquisition of basic literacy, i.e. the two things to happen in parallel. The other thing we have suggested is that this is for a first degree of professional qualification, thus thinking that we find the balance to, again, say, on the one hand, not to allow persons without basic literacy to enter the labour market and not to acquire professional competences, on the other hand, not to waste any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. Are there any lines, coworkers? I won't. Mr. Valchev, in fact you are not making a request at the moment for editing the proposal already made? [[(Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev:]] Other speeches, colleagues, are there any? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. First of all, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 15 to be dismissed. Vote 127 MPs: 11 against 112 abstentions 4. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 16 to be dismissed. They voted 142 MPs: 11 against 128, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 17 to be dismissed. They voted 144 MPs: 12, against 130, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs § 18 to be dismissed. They voted 143 MPs: 11 against 129, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Now the last proposal of the National Representative Georgi Georgiev and a group of MPs, namely § 19 to be dismissed. Please, voting mode. They voted 146 MPs: 12, against 131, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. Now we will put to the vote all the Anbloc texts, namely: § 15, which is an importer and becomes § 16; § 16, which is an version of the Commission and becomes § 17; § 17, which is an importer and becomes § 18; § 18, which is an version of the Commission and becomes § 19; and § 19, which is an version of the Commission and becomes § 20. Please, voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 139 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Arabadjiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u67	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: § 20 is proposed by the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Arabadzhiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on Vocational Education and Training (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 8. . (8) The requirements for the incoming educational level under para. 4 t. 1 (d) shall not apply to persons over 16 years of age in combination with the training to acquire a first degree professional qualification or to a part of a first degree profession with participation in a course of literacy organised by schools in the pre-school and school education system under the Law on Employment Promotion or the Pre-school and School Education Act. The starting educational level for the acquisition of a first degree professional qualification or qualification by part of a first degree profession in this way of training is a successfully completed course for literacy. 2. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9. Proposal by Iskren Arabadzhiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in § 22, t. 2. Proposal by the MP Iskren Arabadzhiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2 the words "only for the specific legal person or natural person' shall be replaced by "only for the local employer or local person who has accepted posted or dispatched workers or employees'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 5. s (5) No permission is required to access the labour market for third-country nationals benefiting from temporary protection for the period of temporary protection fixed by an act of the Council of Ministers. (b) the current para. 5 becomes para. 6. 3. In § 1, t. 11 of the additional provisions, the word........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal by the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 108a, para. 3 after the word "rehabilitation" is added. § 21. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Colleagues, we will put to the vote all the texts that have been read by my colleague Iskren Arabadzhiev, namely: the name of the subdivision which is in the version of the Commission; § 20, which is in the version of the Commission and becomes § 21; § 22, which is new on a proposal from the Commission; likewise § 23, which is also new on a proposal from the Commission; and § 21, which becomes § 24, which is an importer. Please, voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 146, none, abstention 11. With this, the proposal is adopted and the Second Voting Bill. [[Applause.]] Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Colleagues, we continue with item two of the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ENERGY OF RENEWABLE SOURCES. Importers: Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2022. Who will present the report, colleagues? Mr. Ribarsky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 11 March 2022, a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act, No 47-254-01-27, submitted by Vladimir Tabutov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 21 April 2022. A draft amendment and supplement to the Renewable Energy Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: the Act for Supplement to the Renewable Energy Act. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2th sentence 3rd of the National Assembly shall not consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 1, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in a new § 1 concerning art. 25a. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs: The following additions shall be made in § 1: A new article is being created. 24a with the following content: Art. 24a. (1) The provision of art. 23 does not apply to energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources with a total installed capacity of up to 1000 kW, which are intended to be built on roof facade structures of buildings connected to the electricity distribution network and on real estate to them in urbanised areas, the energy from which will be used to cover own consumption and to sell the surplus of energy produced. (2) The installed power of the plant for the production of electricity from renewable sources under para. 1 shall not exceed the power provided for consumption for the site/unit in which it will be built. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Vladislav Panev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Venko Sabrutev and Vasil Stefanov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal by the MP Vasil Stefanov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 25a: Art. 25a. (1) A final customer may build energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources on roof and facade structures of buildings connected to the transmission, distribution or closed electricity distribution network and on real estate to them in urbanised areas, the energy of which will be used only for own consumption, with the total installed power of the energy sites can be up to twice the amount of the supplied power, but not more than 5 MW. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the final customer shall notify the transmission network operator or the relevant electricity distribution or closed distribution network operator. (3) Within 14 days of receipt of the notification under para. 2 The operator of the transmission or of the relevant electricity distribution or closed distribution network shall provide an additional agreement to the contract for access and transmission of the final client, specifying the technical requirements for the connection scheme of the energy object to the final customer's electrical system and regulating the rights and obligations of the parties to ensure the security of the electricity system with a view to avoiding the entry of electricity and network disruptions. (4) The supplementary agreement under para. 3 shall be concluded before a permit is issued for the construction of the energy site, in which case no statement of accession shall be issued. (5) A final customer may import the produced by the energy objects under para. 1 electricity in the network concerned only after the requirements of the procedure of accession as a producer, according to the ordinance under art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u70	Yes, so far, please, Mr. Fisherman. Colleagues, I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and § 1. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, then Mr. Vladimir Tabutov. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u71	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to take account of § 1 of the proposals in the report. As we know, the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Renewable Energy Act was motivated by the fact that the purpose of this IP is to actually limit the conditions for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, which will benefit from the business to meet its own needs and own needs. Here, of course, is a serious issue related to increasing power. We know that under the current law this power was respectively for roof constructions, for facade constructions up to 30 kilowatts and for production buildings up to 200 kilowatts. With the proposed bill, it is proposed that this power be increased to 5 megawatts, something that is extremely serious as power. Imagine, this is the consumption of a city in the order of Vidin, so this is offered as own consumption. However, between the first and second readings in the proposals that have been made, it is clear that the philosophy of this change, which is proposed in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Renewable Energy, has changed since in the provision of art. 25a, para. 1 says that this energy will be used only for own consumption, with the total installed power of the energy objects can be up to twice the amount of the supplied power, but not more than 5 megawatts. At the same time, in the new para. 5 says that a final customer can import the produced by the energy objects under para. 1 electricity in the relevant network, understand this means to sell. The idea was here to satisfy the needs of the relevant business, which would like to satisfy its own energy consumption. But here with al. 5 it is practically said that this energy can be imported into the network, respectively, only after fulfilling the requirements of the accession procedure under art. 116 of the Energy Act. Here, fellow Members, there are two risks. On the one hand, all those who wish to build such a type of capacity up to 5 megawatts under the motto that this will be the capacity that will satisfy their own consumption will use an eased regime, which is created in practice with the changes in the Law, will build these capacities without submitting applications, will use only a notification mode, will not wait for opinions from the ESO or ERP Tata, will build the relevant power, then decide that these 5 megawatts, 2 megawatts, 3 megawatts or as much as they consider to build, are not necessary and will want to be put into the network, that is to be sold. This means that the order provided for in Article will be surrounded. 23 of the Renewable Energy Act. That is, under the motto of someone producing energy for their own consumption, there will be one plant being built to sell electricity, and that I think is more than clear. The second risk that is really serious, and I fear that it will come to it, is that at some point there will be a complete misunderstanding as to what energy and how it will enter the network, whether there is a technical possibility to do so, and this will in practice create a problem of a technical nature relating to the security of the system, as the construction of these sites, again I say, will be without an opinion from the ESO or the ERP without applications, without research, just with one notification mode, someone will notify the ERP or ESO that he wishes to build, build an object with photovoltaics, say, whose power may eventually end up in more of the relevant business and he will want to sell it. So, honourable Members, in the provision of art. Art. 25, § 1, the provision of art. 25a, para. 1 I believe that there is a contradiction with the philosophy of this provision, because this is no longer about meeting its own needs, but about selling electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Are there any lines? Vladimir Tabutov. Here you are, Mr. Tabutov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u73	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Petkova, as we have also commented in the Commission, your concerns are identified and addressed precisely in para. 5, where it is said that if the owner of this power plant wishes to return electricity and sell on the network, this can only happen after the procedure under art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act, namely the procedure includes all the necessary opinions for accession. To date, if this procedure is not initiated, there is no technical possibility for the owner of this power plant to return or sell electricity in any form to the network. So I think that we have already commented on it during the Commission and tried to change the provisions of the CID so that it could not speculate in any way with potentially ill-intentioned investors who would benefit from a light regime. I also assured you then that it is our desire not to allow such companies, which, under the pretext of wanting to use their own energy, to subsequently start selling electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there a second line, colleagues? Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, for a second line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Petkova, in fact, in the Commission we commented and it became clear what is the contradiction and what are our concerns. Perhaps for the majority of those present in this Chamber, it must once again be repeated that, in fact, the provision that allows for the so-called import, and it is the sale of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, which have been built in order that is intended to meet their own needs, creates two dangers. The first danger is to disrupt the balance and security of our national electricity distribution network. The second danger is, and here I will give you the following example: And what are the hypotheses? The possibility of blackmail and corruption is created by the party, including the company because the element of subjectivism is imported how the conditions under art. 116 that should be fulfilled. Once this system of renewable energy sources has been built in a relaxed mode, how will it sanitize the procedure that is under art. 23. This did not become clear in the Commission. We have not received an answer to these questions and are again paying attention, we appeal to whether this is the right way to go. I believe that this also changes the philosophy of the Law, the amendment of the Law, which was proposed and which you proposed, and passed at first reading. The idea was to regulate the way electricity is produced for its own use and not to allow that electricity to be then sold and returned to the network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u77	Mr. President, Mrs. Petkova, explicitly in the Commission, we have taken these decisions precisely so that we can protect ourselves from abuse in this way. So the idea of this CID is really us to ease business. From then on, who wants to sell energy, he will have to go along with the general order with the opinion of the ESO, the ERP, and so, that is, there is no possibility. This is only about consumption for own use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tenev. You have the floor for the coat, Mrs. Petkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to the colleagues who did the lines. Colleagues, I will start by saying that at first glance a good intention to ease the business so that it builds photovoltaic installations in order to satisfy its own consumption, I fear it will be corrupted. Mr. Tabutov and colleague Tenev rightly noted that we at the Energy Commission had a serious discussion on this issue, but we never received any guarantees regarding the construction of the sites. Our main thesis then and the point of the discussion was that these objects would be built under preferential regime. They will not follow what the Law provides when someone wants to build a photovoltaic installation in order to sell that energy. So there is no guarantee in the Law here. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 25a, para. 1 says that this energy will be intended only to satisfy its own needs, but in para. 5 says that this energy is created to be sold, that is, the construction of the object itself will be under ease. You understand that from now on no one will follow the provisions that are in the Law when an installation of up to 5 megawatts will be built. Everyone will want to stick to this relieved regime and once he has built the object, he will say to me that this energy is too much for me, I want to sell. If I've built five megawatts, I want to sell two of them. And here we will now have to go in order as it is written in para. 5 to follow the procedure of the Ordinance under art. 116 of the Energy Act. But what will happen if there is no technical opportunity for this accession to happen. Does this mean that an investor will have to destroy the object he has built or will stop using it, because a technical opportunity may not exist. The ERPs and ESOs can say that there is no such possibility. Then you understand that the risk remains 100% at the expense of the investor. So these are the unanswered questions, these are the topics that have remained unanswered. I say again, otherwise it is a good intention to create some relief for the business, although even in the current law such reliefs exist and they are completely consistent and give really very serious advantages to those producers who want to build up power to meet their own needs. So, colleagues, my concerns, unfortunately, have failed to distract them, and I continue to believe that there is a contradiction here and this will create serious risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. To speak, Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, according to art. 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly declare private interest. The proposed changes have two main objectives. Firstly, to significantly facilitate and shorten the procedure for the approval of the accession of photovoltaic power plants only for own use for non-bit consumers with a capacity of up to twice that already indicated by the electricity distribution company, but not more than 5 megawatts. That's the first target. The second is to enable more Bulgarian companies and manufacturing companies to make a quick investment with a short period of return. By the way, as a key pillar and a way out of this crisis before the war in Ukraine, Europe had drawn the future of its economy, based on the green transition and decarbonisation of the industry. As early as November 2021, at the UN Climate Change Conference, the EU leaders stated their leadership in the fight against climate change. The war in Ukraine has given additional impetus and incentive to leading economies in the European Union to speed up the decarbonisation process and achieve the highest possible levels of energy independence. On 8 March 2022, the European Commission presented the RepowerEU Plan as an instrument for overcoming Russia's energy dependence before 2030, and just before a week, on 18 May 2022, the final version of the RepowerEU Plan was also presented in response to difficulties and disturbances in the global energy market. Why am I saying this? Because the reorganization of the European energy system is urgent for two reasons. Firstly, to end the European Union's dependence on Russian fossil fuels. Secondly, to overcome the crisis caused by climate change. And the changes proposed in the current bill address exactly that. The main objectives of the RepowerEU Plan are achieved through three measures. The first measure is energy saving, the second is the accelerated release of energy from renewable energy sources and the third measure is diversification of energy supplies. Through the proposed changes and as the bill has been signed after the discussion at second reading in the Commission, the texts address precisely two of those objectives mentioned in RepowerEU. With the introduction of the reductions and reduced procedures, all production enterprises and electricity consumers will be able, in a much faster order, to build up own-use capacities and reduce their electricity bills. Any domestic consumer in the field will be able to quickly invest in their energy independence and increase the predictability of their electricity costs and thus improve their competitiveness. The adoption of the proposed bill will bring our economy closer to the implementation of national and European objectives, namely the strengthening of energy independence of our economy as a whole, decentralisation of electricity production, which eases electricity and electricity distribution networks and increases the rate of decarbonisation of the economy. So fast, cheap and long-term each consumer of electricity, which is also a producer of other types of services or products, will be able to decide their level of energy independence and competitiveness. When more non-bit electricity consumers become producers of their own electricity, their competitiveness and independence will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Hey, guys, any lines? Here you are, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u83	Mr. Tabutov, I will give my opinion on the proposed bill when it is my turn to speak. At the moment, I will just point out something that is.. I fully understand your priorities here of the European Union, of directives, of the whole thing that you have mentioned explicitly, understandable is also when this Parliament is guided by the directives of the European Union and not by what is beneficial for us. But specifically on what you were commenting on. There is an opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of this Government, which says basically the following increase, is about the power of 5 megawatts is significant and is contrary to the requirements of art. 17 of the EU 2018/2001 Directive, where that power can be increased to a maximum of 50 kilowatts if the stability, reliability and safety of the network are maintained. When and what are we doing at the moment when the so-called European directives are brutally applied in our legislation and we respect all what is required of the Brussels bureaucrats and when we have, again, an opinion of the MRDP, stating that there are conflicts with these directives? How and what are we doing right now, because the entire bill is starting and starting with the five megawatts in question that you are enabling to build? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Guys, are there any other lines? No. Mr. Tabutov, do you want the floor for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, just to clarify that Directive 2018/2021 treats mostly domestic consumers and it is precisely the limit of 30 kilos that is imposed in view that the maximum of one household consumer is within this range. What treats our proposal is precisely non-bit consumers, and here I dare say that we are perhaps a step forward, looking at the details of REPowerEU, and what should happen as an update of the pan-European renewable energy directive. Here, in short time, the European Commission should update the directive, bearing in mind the achievement of three main objectives. The first objective is to sign a European Union strategy for solar energy in order to double solar photovoltaic capacity by 2025 to 600 gigawatts. This will impose a trend and I believe that with the legal changes made, we are, again, one step ahead. The second objective is the initiative "Sun roofs" with which legal obligations will be carried out to install solar panels on new public and commercial buildings. The third is dealing with delayed and complex procedures for issuing decisions on large renewable energy projects, which is part of the amendment of the Renewable Energy Directive. I mean, with one sentence. I believe that, with this change, we are one step ahead of what is to come as changes to the common European directive and we are in no way at all at odds with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. To speak, Borislav Panev, you have the floor. Colleagues, maybe after this speech, I'll give half an hour's rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u87	Mr. President, I believe that Bulgaria needs to accelerate and implement the process of installing new energy capacities, especially those that will reduce the cost of production of Bulgarian companies and make them more competitive in the markets, including on the international and Bulgarian markets. This is the first, albeit small, step towards the deputinization of the Bulgarian economy, namely the introduction of new energy sources that diversify our dependence on Russian ones. Yes, of course, there are thin moments in it, but eventually there are always risks, such as someone first installing capacities for own consumption and then deciding to sell them. There's nothing wrong with that. I think there are thin moments in the electrical distribution system like this. The most serious of them is how the network can withstand the rapid heating of many thousands of megawatt photovoltaic projects. We know that projects are worth 16 or 17 thousand megawatts so far. It is clear that in the current state of the network they cannot be implemented for one or two years, so perhaps with the next action we should focus on improving the quality of the energy network, building the so-called SmartGit, but these are further steps. We will, of course, support the Law, as this, although small, is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u89	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Panev! My reply is related to the development of renewable energy in Bulgaria and here we are pleased to say that Bulgaria is one of the few Member States in the European Union that has exceeded its national objective in terms of the final gross consumption to contain a certain percentage of renewable energy. Our national objective, according to European requirements, by the end of 2020, was to make this amount 16% of the country's final gross consumption to be precisely renewable energy. At the end of 2020, we have implemented this goal and Bulgaria is among the winners within the European Union with 24% renewable energy production in the final gross consumption. So we can safely say that the development of renewable energy in Bulgaria is really at an enviable level. Here I would like to draw attention once again to this power risk. Again, colleagues, five megawatts is an extremely large production power. This thing will cause a problem, as well as European rules and directives, but will also cause a problem related to the technical capabilities of the country's energy system, because, again, I say, the regime that is envisaged here in the construction of these sites is a light regime, everyone will build, will invest in some 5 megawatts and will expect afterwards, if he decides to sell 2 or 3 of them, to be connected. But our network can't withstand such a huge load. So the biggest risk is security of supply, security of supply. Again, think of the people who will invest. Because if you invest in one, two, three, five megawatts, that's a serious resource. Then, if these megawatts cannot be put into the network, if they prove unnecessary, it means that the risk is 100% for the investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Second line: Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Panev! Maybe we're shifting the focus of what we're talking about. I agree with you and with your claim that procedures need to be significantly improved. It's just a small step. At the moment, unfortunately, anyone who tries to build such an installation for their own consumption is faced with some heavy procedures and months of walking through suffering, figuratively speaking, so that they can draw electricity that they produce. On speculation during a discussion in committee at second reading, para. 5 of art. 25a was proposed precisely by the electricity distribution companies as an instrument to limit this type of speculation. So I think we've taken all the necessary measures to minimize such an undesirable effect. I believe that the positives will be much more than speculation will lead to a deadlock when an investor tries to take advantage of such a relieved regime. As to whether or not electricity can be sold, let's say, after an activity is terminated, this will be determined in general order. So there are no risks to the investor here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. The third line asked Mr. Manev. Here you are, Mr. Manev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Panev, I fully agree with you, with what you have said, and I would ask you again to explain to Mrs. Petkova that the goal is actually a reduction of cost, and the cost of production of the Bulgarian producer is not fulfilling any state commitments for a percentage of renewable energy. And the other thing I want you to note again is that 5 megawatts is the maximum power, and if someone, let's say, decides that they're going to make 5 megawatts, at some next stage, they're going to want two or three of them connected to them. Yeah, if there's a chance, it'll be connected. If there isn't, wait in general order. It shall not be connected until it has received the appropriate coordination from the ERPs and the energy system operator. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u94	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Panev, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Petkova, first. Yes, Bulgaria may have met some goals, but there was basically a boom of investments in RES until 2012 and then a very serious standstill that does not meet our potential and which I believe over the next one or two years will be overcome by seeing what the investor interest is, seeing what the market levels and cost of energy from photovoltaics and the market price of electricity are, so I believe that with this project we will be able to speed up in some way, in a concrete way, the faster installation of photovoltaic capacities. Mr. Tabutov, my professional experience has passed on the stock market, so when I talk about speculation, I don't mean anything bad at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Colleagues, I'm taking the 12-10 off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u97	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Mr. Nenkov, you're welcome to speak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The subject which we are debating, in particular, art. 25a, it can really have a huge impact on the future development of our electricity system. The good thing is that these debates are remembered, stenographed and in the future will be seen whether we were right in our concerns about what you will do today or not. As you know, colleagues, the road to hell is generally paved with good intentions, and I suspect in your desire to make amendments to the Renewable Energy Act that this is precisely what a good intention is and not a lobbyist interest, because if we elaborate on what is being proposed today to the people's representatives, we can draw such a conclusion. I'll explain why and where our concern is. We are also and have always been in favour of developing green energy, only we must always take account and always take into account what our electricity distribution and transmission network is capable of. If you are going to build one such park, which is renewable energy, there was not for a reason one such longer co-ordination procedure, which was already mentioned, precisely in order to ensure that there is no breach of security of supply. I understand your desire, but if it were only for the purpose of helping the producer himself, who needs energy, to produce electricity, which is only for its own production, I would agree and would support it with two hands, not to require the heavy coordination procedure, but only notification to the distribution network operator or transmission system operator. However, you are doing another one, you are actually opening one door, and you are telling every single manufacturer who uses electricity that it can exceed twice what it needs for its own consumption. Yes, it is true that in the original version of the Bill there was no such limitation: On the other hand, here you confuse the basic concept of what urban territory is and why it is urbanized because there is a common plan for it. Each piece in this urbanized territory is intended to carry out some event. You're actually flipping the lining of reverse planning, and you're saying that in an urbanized territory, this UPI could be intended for kindergarten, sports events or any other such activities, and it might actually turn out to be solar parks on this territory. What if wind fins show up? Imagine now in an urbanized territory to start spinning and some fins to spin because the law says and treats all RES equally? All RES, including biomass production, including wind generation. I don't think you've really thought much about what you're doing here and what door you're opening. The other, which is very important, in this way, bypassing the more difficult order, you are actually putting an investor in an uneven position who wants to build such a power to sell on the free market, they no longer have preferential prices, we have already banned this possibility, and an investor who has passed this entire procedure. In fact, you say, "I'm sorry, but those who have some kind of production power have a need for energy." They deliberately exceed what they need for their own consumption, give one notification and there is no one to stop them, because what you have quoted just now that you are forwarding the power that is not needed to be able to sell and to be included in the electricity distribution or transmission network, you say so: it will pass according to art. 116, para. 7. For Bulgarian viewers looking at us, this means by regulation of the Regulator, which determines the way of accession. And what is our guarantee that tomorrow the regulator will not change its regulation and we will actually end up with some power that has no one to control them in any way and even more... I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...I am convinced that this opens the door to some very bad corruption practices because the uncertainty in the Law, the ability of many of the producers to take advantage of these texts, will lead to the moment when it precisely creates such a corrupt environment so that this power, which is above what we need, can include it in the electricity distribution network. That's the problem, and I hope I'm wrong, but alas, I'll most likely turn out to be. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For your reply, Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I've lived to hear about fins in urbanized territory! Feathers in urbanized territory can't, renewables aren't just fins. As we have set out in the Bill s twice the amount of power provided, this implies that you already have a consumer contract to which you are making an additional agreement, which clearly specifies the technical means by which the dedication to the network will be limited. That's one of the restrictions on the network. Then we bet that if you do decide to sell that energy, you have to go over the procedure again. It means that you must also receive a contract for a producer, which is a completely different type of contract with the energy distribution company, and this contract implies that the accession of that power has something to do with the energy distribution company. No one will give you a contract of accession as a producer without a clear estimate of what will happen to this energy that you will eventually put on the network, so the bill is protected by several countries for your concerns. Potentially in a kindergarten territory, there is no way to become such a project for own consumption because there is supposed to be some consumption already. A kindergarten area is supposed to be under construction and there is no electrical supply, so I believe the Bill is well protected precisely from those concerns that we heard today in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u101	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. Mr. Tenev, come in for a second line, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Nenkov! Mr. Ribarsky, thank you, and thank you, but you forgot to say that these restrictions, up to twice the power, we have provided them for this purpose so that we can stimulate investment in energy storage schemes. In this way we will relieve one producer, on which its cycle is 24/7, i.e. it, by financing with batteries, will be able to use this energy, so this limitation to twice the power is completely, I would say, in plus for the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u103	Thank you, Mr. Tenev. Mr. Tabutov, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act refers to Decree No 6 of Accession, right? In general, if we assume that this CI is not accepted, any producer who wants to sell to the electricity distribution network will have to follow all the provisions of Regulation No 6. It is precisely because of this fact and at the insistence of the electricity distribution companies during the discussion in the Commission at second reading that we included this text, which was not part of our proposal, in order to make it very clear that everyone who has already built a power plant for production under ease regime, but only for their own consumption, if he says to sell the surpluses or to sell this electricity entirely, must again turn to the provisions of Decree No 6, which does not in any way oppose and does not favour any of the investors. So accept the hypothesis that we have described the text and everyone must comply with Regulation No 6. This is no different from what we have at the moment. I don't see the loopholes you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u105	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ribarsky, I'll read to you because the viewers will most likely be interested in what we look at as a text, I'll read what they say. Article 25a says: The final client can build energy sites for the production of electricity from renewable sources on roofs, facade structures and so on on real estate to them in urbanized territories. Could you define renewables for me? Yeah, these aren't just fins, but it also includes wind energy, including, if you will, biomass production. Is that right? Is the text clear here? No, it's not clear. I'm not saying it will, but the hypothesis exists. You open that door. Someone may want to make a fin in the urbanized territory. For example, a plot that is intended for a sports playground may want and there is no one to stop it, but that is the difference. In the case of art. 116, para. 7, I just told you. Let's do it, let's have more renewable energy sites, let's just, just that you're putting in an uneven position an energy producer who wants to invest, to build such an object to pass a change of purpose, to pass all the heavy co-ordination procedures, to ask for an opinion from the electricity distribution and transmission network, and you say otherwise here. I, for example, need some power a megawatt. In this order, by notification, I am building, for example, a solar park with a megawatt. Tomorrow I say, well, I don't really need this megawatt anymore, and I need 500 kilos for my production, for example. You've already built it, you've already surrounded the Law and these 500 kilos, so I said that here creates a very serious door for corrupt practices, you'll be willing to all these 500 kilos to be connected to the network. You're not gonna destroy them, you're not gonna destroy them, I'm pretty sure there's not gonna be a case like that. And as for the guarantee and the security that no one is going around art. 116, para. 7 and the reference to the regulation of the KEWRC, I must tell you that very easily tomorrow the legislator accepts these texts, are promulgated and after a few months no wonder the regulator will change it. Exactly one sentence should not be able to refuse it already built such power to join it to the network and by changing the Regulation, it has already tied its hands, and those who are already going to build on the channel line, they are already two breasts back. That's the problem, guys. Again, we are not opposed to building such power, but you should have limited yourself only to the need to satisfy your own need. It doesn't have to be twice on top. I want you to imagine, for example, five megawatts because viewers must be watching, five megawatts is 50 acres. 50 decares more or less, on average you do such a business and know about how much it is like an area, just imagine 50 decares of solar park.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u107	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Ramadan Atalay, then Mr. Tsoncho Ganev. Mr. Hristov, in order to alternate the groups, you stay behind them. Here you are, Mr. Atalay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, firstly, I welcome you for the courage to make for the first time the first step towards amending and supplementing the Energy Act in the interests of society, in the interests of those enterprises that have long been waiting for such a change. You have promised many other licensing regimes that you said you would remove, but you do not really dare to do anything in terms of direct contracts that had to be done with electricity enterprises. But actually, let's get back to this bill, so it doesn't turn out that I'm praising you a lot and taking off all of a sudden. Colleagues, what you're proposing is very good, but it's still being offered... If I said she was lobbying, you wouldn't understand. You're offering to take one step, but you've raised your leg and your leg is standing in the air. Why? I will tell you this: we have proposed with the installed capacity that businesses have to be able to build from renewable energy sources that they can use. I suggested, of course, that by consulting with all those who are interested, the energy generated should not remain the way people say to flow through the channel, but to make sure that this energy that is produced is able to go into the network and reduce the price of electricity that we need so much and is now so expensive. I don't understand, just because of Mr. Tabutov, do you do it because he owns a PV company and we only let him build photovoltaics, and from there where will the energy go, how will it be used and what will be done? You're sending me to art. 117, para. 6. [[Reply.]] Article 116, para. 7, okay, you're correcting me, Mr. Fisherman. And in the morning, when Mr. Ribarsky is asked on the radio, "How are we going to do so that this energy is produced, what are you going to do with it?" And after a week of putting in a new bill, that means that this bill that we are adopting right now is not working. There's no one to go and build a five-megawatt power plant when they know they're going to use a maximum capacity load of 4.2 megawatts. What do we do with the rest? You're sending them to the capitalists to make batteries? So, we also work for those who are going to make batteries because they had to buy batteries. Where are those batteries, guys? [[Heckling]] Please. My proposal solves the problem, so I've proposed it: the surplus of energy, agreed with the electricity distribution companies, with a separate electricity meter, the excess of energy that is above the production, goes to the electricity distribution company and we reduce the price of end-users to end-users. Is there anyone who can disprove me? I won't. [[Heckling]] You'll probably come out here to protect some others, but that's the logic of energy being used. If you only have a way to produce without going outside the enterprise, then what will those enterprises that Saturday and Sunday do not work? Where will this energy go? What are you going to do with this energy that people have given so much money for and installed these power plants? Please, we don't have any lobbying. Lobism, if it's just for those who are going to build batteries, it's already a fact. If we're gonna make a bill that works, let's take the next step. I am also prepared for my next suggestions to take note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u109	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Fisherman for a line. Tsoncho Ganev for two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Atalay, you've been listening to the radio again. This morning I explicitly said that today's bill is to facilitate production and own consumption. What you are proposing is not without logic, but in your proposal, you refer to the surplus of the quantities produced to be sold to a trader for an excess price. This thing does not bring great benefits to producers that generate these surpluses. Across Europe, the trend is that producers are consumers and sellers of their excess energy as a last resort. But today, our bill, which we hope to adopt, is making the first step -- precisely with small steps -- to secure the participation of all those who wish to build such installations, to achieve some independence of their energy consumption and only at the next stage, but not next week, as you have heard on the radio. It was about a bill that is consistent with both compensation and something that we are preparing for discussions with employers. So the next steps are definitely in this direction for excess energy to be able to reach the market, but not to put the distribution grid to the test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. Mr. Ganev, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u112	Mr. Atalay, as a representative of the DPS, you just confirmed why you're in the DPS. We have now an extremely lobbying bill that protects everything else, but not the small microbusiness that could ensure independence. You directly suggested, upgraded their lobbying and said: you have a small cow farm with 100 animals inside. You use between 10 and 15 kilos, you make 5 megawatts, according to your logic, and what you offer is to start selling. Why wouldn't you? This is an upgrade to the lobbying bill of the "We are continuing the Change." I can't, and I'm glad he's not going to be accepted at all. I have no idea, perhaps the Change to support your request and accept it, but for me what you have proposed here is, to put it mildly, lobbying.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Third line, guys. Mr. Tabutov, come in. Welcome to our little guests today! [[Everyone welcomes the guests with applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Atalay! I also congratulate those who have just arrived! You are right in that the trend is the excess of one electricity produced to be used. Logic talks about this thing. Accordingly, we support it as an initiative in principle, but the subject of the Law at the moment and what we want to amend is to ease production and consumption only of energy, which is being used by the already connected customer. From this point of view, speculations as to whether a small cow farm with 15 kilowatts can actually build 5 megawatts are non-essential, because the Law clearly states that power can be up to a maximum of twice what is connected as power. So if you have 15 kilos of connected power as a client, you can set up a power plant for a maximum of 30 kilos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you are, Mr. Atalay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u116	I thank Mr. Tabutov for answering to Mr. Ganev because he... The point is, coming into the room and jumping into the stands isn't helpful, mate. Because first, you have to read what we're talking about and then explain. But look, Mr. Tabutov, as a builder of photovoltaics, understands if in a cow farm the power you use is 50 kilos, you have no right to build for your own use more than 50 kilos, and now they say you can build up to 100 kilos. So about what you said, he very correctly explained to you, but he didn't explain how he knew these things. I thank both the President and Mr. Tabutov for agreeing to what I'm offering you. If you have a power of 5 kilos, you build 5 kilos, but your enterprise uses 4.2 megawatts. And the other 800 about them is where to go? You're thinking small and small business, aren't you? I suggest you get this part into the network, that's what this is about. Otherwise, their law is lobbyist, it's lobbyist, but they can't get through it. They are also not competent to do so because they work only for one person and for the other person that is there by the capitalists. They're all gone. One here, even Commissioner Dunchev, had suggested that the Deputy Prime Minister for the Environment become Minister of Energy. Have you read his suggestions? And have you read Mr. Panev's proposals, where he says: immediately the balancing groups will recover. So you can steal another 100 million with Kolyo Nikolov and the others? You guys take a look at this lobbying stuff. Or in a word, the bill you proposed is a timid attempt to do something useful, but it's not over. You're not gonna do anything. You will accept the Law and no one will go to construction because man has nothing to do with excess energy. I won't. Let's make a working bill. That's what I'm telling you. And the working bill is when you start from production to realization of all that remains, to the final client and the entire chain to have people involved in it. Why didn't you accept a change of land? What is there to go to pay the Ministry of Agriculture for 100 acres of change to change the status of the land? And what do we pay? After 20 years you pull out the stakes, you may not even pull out the stakes, but plant tomatoes directly, but we must load the investor. We have to load all those who for one reason or another... Colleagues, if you want to give up and be an independent state that reduces the energy we use from the outside, the first thing is to build renewable energy sources. Secondly, it's the sanitization of everything that uses power, and then we can go spit in the well and yell that we don't want the Russian gas that we're using now, and as you've seen, Europe is taking Russian gas very seriously. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u117	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mrs. Kirova, who was recorded far earlier, Mr. Ganev. Then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking about what Mr. Atalay said about not having to come into the room and take the floor right away, because I interrupted following the discussion for about 10 minutes. Either way, what I'm saying is addressed as a start to Mr. Panev, but he's not in the room. Before the break, he said something that impressed me very much: about the thin work. That, yes, there is a thin job that remains for smoothing and that there is an opportunity to abuse the installations that are built within the meaning of the new text, which is yet to be voted on, but this is a matter of future resolution. For me, as a man who has spent his whole life doing business and working in real production, what is most important in our legislation is stability. In this regard, I believe that if we adopt changes in terms of amending the Law on Renewable Energy, they must be stable and should not allow for further interpretation after the Law has been adopted. Don't let them give us a chance to move in. Do not allow for further documents and regulations to create a basis and prerequisite for both blackmail and corruption and for something extremely dangerous to breach the security of our transmission network. I fully support the idea and efforts in this respect that legislation on electricity produced from renewable energy sources for own consumption must be alleviated. I'm repeating my own consumption. It can be used from both household and business when it is for own consumption. Under no circumstances is the introduction of an opportunity through this para. 5? giving an opportunity by para. 5, this energy shall be returned to the network and sold under any condition even if, in this case, the condition is that it must be in accordance with the Ordinance under art. 116, para. 7 means that we allow for an additional interpretation. Once again I ask my question, I did not get an answer in the duplicate: how can an already built under ease mode installation meet the requirements of art. 116, para. 7. It must be demolished and rebuilt. In fact, it turns out that this article. 5 it could have been safely dropped, because we are misleading both the working people and the business with this paragraph, unless that is the purpose of legislative change. And she's in no way in the right direction of stability. In the light of the energy crisis, which is not only for Bulgaria but is throughout Europe, all countries will strive to improve their capacity to produce electricity from renewable energy sources. We must not forget that the system needs balancing. We must not forget that the capacity of the transmission network in Bulgaria is precisely defined. That's why it's the long co-ordinates. It is therefore in the other order that procedure which requires the opinion of the competent authorities of the companies concerned to be heard. Sometimes we need to distance ourselves from the very narrowest, private or business interest, or personal interest, and look at things from above. We, as MPs, as MPs, must defend national interest. Bulgaria's transport network serves all Bulgarian citizens and the whole business. When we threaten the security of this network was because of accidents, it was because of overload, it was because of cases when on the thin line, as Mr. Panev said, on the thin work someone would abuse, we do something that is actually to the detriment of Bulgarian citizens. We don't have to do this. We have indeed had an in-depth discussion in the Commission, but we have not reached a consensus. I suggest that it be reconsidered what is offered with para. 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Are there any lines, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kirova, I give it to you for missing one moment. All those concerns that you addressed in your speech have already been discussed in the Chamber and have been refuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u121	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Second line, Mr. Vasil Stefanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kirova, there is no risk to the network. Article 25a, para. 5 in fact, the one you are talking about is an additional mechanism for protection against the construction of RES, the more relaxed order we are setting at the moment, and the subsequent sale without the whole procedure under art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act. In fact, we have placed two more mechanisms with this bill. That's the first one. Two more. The second mechanism is to conclude an additional agreement to the accession treaty... to limit the return to the network, which is set out in the new article. 25a, para. 3. The third mechanism is to actually limit the electricity produced in the new para. 1 of art. 25a where the total installed power is connected to the provided power. So the limit to twice in the example, which was given a little earlier, with 15 to 30 kilowatts, not five megawatts. This is a real third limitation mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mrs. Petkova, you have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kirova, you have very rightly understood that in the proposed provision of art. 25a has a significant contradiction in the philosophy of this provision. The aim of the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act, as fellow importers have mentioned, was precisely to ease the business so that it would produce electricity from renewable energy, which it would use for its own use. As you can see, art. 25a, para. 5 changed the philosophy of the proposed law completely, so your speech was absolutely correct and correct. This is no longer about own consumption, this is about selling this energy. This, of course, leads to a series of problems. I hope our colleagues disprove us with this change. I think this will lead to very serious problems. First, there is an inequality between the subjects. One entity that has decided and honestly says that it will build an installation for renewable energy sources in order to produce and sell this energy. Another investor, who, under the motto of meeting his own needs, started to build under a light regime such a single power and eventually decided that he would sell this energy, put them in an absolutely disadvantaged position, which is a serious problem. The other big problem is the power of five megawatts. You have rightly pointed out that there will probably also be a violation of the European directives here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Sabrutev, I was absent from the gym and apologized for this in advance. If necessary, I can repeat my arguments during the duvet, even though they have been heard in the hall. Because the difference between being spoken on a microphone in the room and really being heard and accepted and understood proved to be huge. That we will see, of course, with the next vote. I would like the arguments to be understood, really taken into account. We also had this conversation in the Commission. Mr. Stefanov, the limitation on the production of electricity for its own needs, which was commented in the Commission twice on the basis of Mr. Ramadan Atalay's proposal, was argued by Mr. Delyan Dobrev and you know that we agreed. In fact, we asked you to include it as some kind of protection for not being abused in building such an installation and then for them to be connected to the network and to sell electricity. This, however, does not solve the problem with a consumer who consumes 300 kilos and is resolved to 600 and one that consumes two megawatts and is solved to four. The difference is huge, it gives some kind of protection, but then the rest is much bigger. The financing of the construction of the plant is much greater and creates an opportunity, naturally, for the investor to apply different thin lines and techniques, as Mr. Panev said, to connect it, i.e. to be able to return electricity to the network. So that doesn't entirely solve the problem. What I would like to say in conclusion, and I sincerely hope that you, fellow Members, understand that we are fully well-intentioned, there must be a relieved regime. We agree, although there is one in the current legislation. This regime and the latest change proposed between first and second readings actually opens a loophole for the sale of electricity from installations built a lighter regime than those built to sell electricity. The agreement that will be missing in the second type of installations should also be an obstacle to their connection to the network in general for the purpose of selling. Here's the main difference. That's what we should all have in mind. That's why I'm asking you to drop out. 5 as proposed by the importer. We also offered it to the Commission. He didn't take it. I'll propose again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. To speak, Mr. Tsoncho Ganev. You have the floor, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u128	Mr President, several times this tribune has commented on the big problem with this bill, namely the possibility to build up to five megawatts and to be used by the business. The truth is that in Bulgaria there are, depending on the times of load, between 5 and 10 companies that use such large quantities of electricity. Because this, as has been said, is a small town in Bulgaria. What is at stake here is really something very big for the scale of Bulgaria. That is why this bill is everything else, but not solving current business problems. On the other hand, however, we strongly stand behind the need to be supported and enable family micro-, small, medium-sized businesses to really have some independence and use all the opportunities that RES technology gives. It's not normal for us if you have a garage in a building where you live, and you buy an electric car in order to make a simple contact in which to load your car, you currently need about two years to reach the final point of contact. Different co-ordinations, different opinions, from the ERP you can think of. That's not normal. This should be regulated in such a bill, supported and supported in this version. It's okay to want this thing to happen. It is normal to want this thing to happen when such RES technologies are used on buildings. It's not normal, however, to use five megawatts of electricity, let someone do it, and so something goes over 50 acres. Because to make solar panels for five megawatts, you need at least 50 bucks to say no more. Now imagine, when Bulgaria to date in its huge part and all the largest municipalities, including them, are under the leadership of GERB and the municipal councils are more or less controlled by them. What are you opening? You give mayors the opportunity with municipal councilors controlled in different configurations, of course, where with IMRO, GNI, where with other such local players, you give the opportunity to change the general planning. You give the opportunity at some point to come one such moment, at which you need to change the overall design plan. Well, yeah, you're gonna run your companies. They will be able to do these things, but at the same time you will open a large ulcer in many other municipalities where you have no business interests with this bill, but they do. This whole thing is why we have these comments here from our part of the process because this does not support small and medium-sized businesses. On the contrary, this does not even support the possibility that the blocks, as in Central and Western Europe, housing neighborhoods have really some kind of energy independence, using the whole thing that new technologies have. It was commented at the beginning when the review of the Bill began that this bill contradicts one of the European directives. I would like to say that when it was stressed that this directive concerns domestic consumers in this bill, it is indicated that there is an end-user. The end user again includes household users and non-bit users. And the justification that, you see, with this bill, we are one step ahead of the European Commission and all the central and Western European countries, and they will change this directive, and I can say on this principle that it will not have the European Union then. Why should we do something that your mantra European directives, right now you are stepping on them, and not that I say it, says your Ministry of Regional Development, because that is what your Ministry of Regional Development says: this bill contradicts and should not be done. It is not normal to change the closing provisions to ZUT. This is something that you have constantly said that GERB have done for years. You're doing it right now! This is not normal and should not be done this way. You should also hear then your Ministry of Regional Development that it is not normal to make such large installations of over 50 decares in which this thing is simply with one notification that you will do so. Who will be responsible if we have a problem, God forbid, with a death case, because someone hasn't checked and hasn't coordinated such large-scale projects in advance?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to Tsoncho Ganev? Ivan Manev for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, let's just say you're not prepared. It's okay for you to come out and speak such nonsense. I just don't have words. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] And now I'm going to focus first on the points that we're talking about. Several times you said, up to five megawatts, how people... five megawatts. In the Law we offer, it clearly says: "To two times the power supply... " and I will give an example exactly with your cow farm with 15 kilos. If the cow farm is connected to 15 kilos of power, it will be able to build 30 kilos of solar park, not 5 megawatts, and 30 kilos will require 3 decares, not 50 decares. You've said several times how this law has been addressed maybe in relation to what you think of the 5 megawatts, only to the big business, the big fish, those 10 companies that you yourself have listed. And the law that we offer applies to absolutely all companies -- micro, macro -- the 15-pound cow farm you mentioned, as well as domestic consumers. I mean, at home, at my villa, I can also build RES for my own needs, without having to get permits from the ERPs and the ESOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u131	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Second line to Tsoncho Ganev? Venko Sabrutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ganev, you called it a problem with municipalities, in fact this is a huge help to municipalities. Imagine the municipalities will be able to build RES for their own consumption and will be able to use electricity at a price, say, about 70 BGN. of megawatt instead of current, let's say 300, 400, 500 in the winter months, reaching 1,000. This is a great measure aimed at municipalities as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u133	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Is there a third line to Tsoncho Ganev? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for the back. In the meantime, I take the opportunity to congratulate the students from the 125th school of Boyan Penev. [[Applause.]] Welcome to the Bulgarian Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u134	Undoubtedly today, we have a sensitive, significant progress "We are continuing the Change" started to protect the bills they are putting into place. I welcome and congratulate you, because until now there has been total silence, more than six months of absolute silence, the opposition is speaking, you are silent, and finally you accept what you have decided. Either way, this is a good step, I really am saying this very seriously, and I congratulate you that you have finally decided to defend what you stand for with your votes. It is an extremely exciting moment, and I am absolutely certain that it is realistic for municipalities to start building solar parks and own solar parks. I'm not gonna define this insanity, but in the end, maybe if you have a mayor someday, it'll happen and this thing gets voted out and you do it. And as for the first line. I'm so sorry, this thing you're describing, you're not commenting on essentially real in real life what's going on with business! Because it is very easy from this tribune to describe ideal situations in which with one declaration the one on the other side will respect absolutely everything or that he has declared absolutely everything and that we have functioning organs. We, if we had active bodies in our country, would not be the poorest country in the European Union. We have everything else, but not impartially functioning and controlling bodies. Anything but that! On the contrary, at the moment you are opening a big door for another dose of speculation, another dose of opportunities to develop a new uncontrolled business. Regarding getting to safety or accession, it was commented, by the way. It would have been very interesting earlier if you had commented. And what will happen to your KEWRC, because you appointed it, if you change another sentence, and the next thing you know, there's absolutely no problem with starting to join the power and gaining from what you weren't in any way controlled about, is it at least safe? You underestimate the moment, and I said in my initial speech: you underestimate the moment for safety, you underestimate the moment when, in order to earn really serious amounts, huge amounts of money to be earned, someone somewhere will meet all the necessary requirements. So there's nothing left to waste any more time on. We of old age are precisely because of these things these paragraphs and members will not support them. In the Bill there are other things that are good, we will support them, but in terms of what we are currently commenting on, there is no way you can get our support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Rumen Hristov is listed for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a electricity user within 900 kilos, I declare a conflict of interest because perhaps if this law is made so that it allows the construction of such capacities, I will be certainly one of the candidates. Bulgaria produces relatively cheap electricity, but in terms of our obligation to be in a common energy system with the European Union and to sell this electricity on the free energy market, it is getting expensive. What's the target? The aim is to be able to deliver the possibility of production being carried out where the consumption of the consumers, which have consumption within 10 kg, to produce for their own use, the enterprises that consume electricity, as well as for their own use. It is a good idea, but it makes sense of all of what we are commenting on if we allow those who are building such capacities to have the opportunity to sell free electricity. The proposal for twice the capacity required for me is a bit large. I'll tell you that my enterprise for 17 years has increased its installed capacity by about 20%, so 10 In general, the power grid, if it can deliver, for example, a kilowatt, can return a kilowatt. That is to say, there is no need for further expansion of the transmission network, and that is why this programme is being made in the European Union to take electricity production where it is being consumed. However, businesses work with an 8-hour working day, Saturday and Sunday are not working. A single electricity is produced which, if allowed to sell it, will have the opportunity to restore the investment made by them an hour more recently. What's the point of all this? The point of all of this is that summertime, when mainly power plants work, especially RES, will not work our base capacities. The base capacity, taking into account mainly coal plants that pay carbon emissions, will work when there is a need, i.e. in winter, and the overall final price of electricity will not be increased. In this sense, my appeal is: think about it, I am not a energyist, I am making a suggestion as a person who deals with these things by coincidence, whether to be twice over the current capacities with which both domestic consumers and non-domestic consumers operate. And secondly, this electricity, which is produced on the days in which it is not working, and keep in mind that Bulgaria has about 25 non-working days, can be sold to help both domestic consumers who have invested and non-bit consumers who have invested. After all, we provide our production and our consumers with cheap electricity, because you know that soon the non-bits have to pass on the free market, and then those who buy electricity outside will raise prices and must pay the high price by the consumers themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u137	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Replices to Rumen Hristov? Mrs. Kirova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice when there is discussion and when there are different views and opinions. Let me disagree with you, Mr. Christov. What you have presented to us in the second part of your speech can also make the following picture: moments where there is a peak of return to the electricity grid, and this will be the moments when businesses do not work, and moments where there is also a shortage of electricity if we stop in some form the base capacities, which in fact in terms of balancing the system is impossible. I believe that people who work and who have an idea of how to balance our own system should still be speaking on this subject. And I'm saying this in the following relation, I'm not talking about shutting down the power plants of the brands that produce coal, we're talking about that we have to give the population the maximum cheap electricity. Yes, everyone is good to be independent and to build capacities where there is actually consumption. And in this sense, it is a good proposal to ease the regime. But when we give the opportunity, I repeat, to sell the electricity in light mode, which is accepted as surplus or which is previously at stake and it is known that it will not be used that goes beyond its own consumption, then we put at risk the entire system of distribution in Bulgaria and I would not want to go into such situations. I am convinced that we on the green deal have commitments as a member of the European Union and yet the price of electricity from renewable energy sources until recently was one of the most expensive. This was the reason why there was no such big boom as everyone expects outside the applications of real construction and not just administrative procedures. Today, when we have a gas crisis, today, when we have a problem with the supply of various energy products, perhaps it will be somewhat justified, but in no case should it be at the expense of our electricity distribution system. And I don't think we should put her at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Second line from Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Hristov, to bring some clarity on the scope of the proposed bill. In principle, there are three hypotheses in which such a plant can be built, from the point of view of the sale of electricity or consumption. One hypothesis is when electricity is used only for own consumption. The second hypothesis is when this is done for the purpose of selling all the electricity produced. And the third hypothesis is the mix of this thing, that is, to produce, to consume one part and to sell the surplus. I would like to assure you again that what I propose as a text in the Law currently addresses only the first hypothesis, namely the consumption of 100% of the electricity produced. In respect of art. 25a, para. 5 The electricity distribution company, which has received a request to join a power plant for the purpose of selling electricity, must refer to Decree No 6. This text, which is described in para. 5, addresses an existing legal framework anyway. We included this post-factum as a text precisely at the insistence of the electricity distribution companies so that it could be clearly described how they would possibly join such capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u141	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Is there a third line to Rumen Hristov? Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, I think that things are quite well described in the Bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. Here every business will make its assessment whether it wants to install RES for its own needs, or wants to install RES for production. When it wants to install RES for the production and sale of electricity, it will have to pass at the statutory deadline. We here in EVI only concern people who want to help their own business with electricity production for their own needs. So I don't see all these hypotheses and suggestions about how to make five megawatts, how to make large installations. It is explicitly described to a maximum of twice the power input. So I do not think that in any way it is not good for the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tenev. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not an energy grid balancing specialist, but I said before the simple rule that a network that can deliver a megawatt can return a megawatt. This is not about building larger capacities. I set an example with myself again: I have 900 kilos, I build power for my needs - 900 kilos, only on Saturdays and Sundays the enterprise does not work. What are we doing with electricity? The same goes for domestic consumers. They've built up a power of 10 kilos, only they're on vacation for 20 days, they're producing electricity, and that power can't get in again to be consumed by the population. Or if it is allowed to be connected in any way to the common network, the manufacturer shall not be paid that electricity. Where is she going? That is the question. Otherwise, I say again, the intention is good. The point is to look at all possibilities. This is not about building companies with the production and sales hypothesis.. it is about producing electricity for own use and answering the question: when the undertaking for one reason or another does not work and photovoltaics or fins work, what do we do with this electricity?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u145	Thank you, Mr. Christov. I give the floor to Tomislav Donchev for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u146	A brief transition from electrical energy to other energies. Dear colleagues, on the occasion of yesterday's bright holiday, we are accustomed to listening or reading speeches as if written by machines for cheap love novels from a book by Orwell. The keyword Arsenal rarely exceeds 200, and the question is to be permuted in an unidentifiable way in the previous speech. And if you're a victim of clichés, you're doomed to only reproduce clichés. Yes, for a century and a half we celebrate the Day of the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius, of the Bulgarian alphabet, of education, of culture. We also celebrated yesterday, institutionally organized, perhaps somewhere sincere and spontaneous. I wouldn't criticize the institutionalization of the holiday. Traditions and collective memory are supported as much by public identity as by the state. My word is for something else. When the celebration began in the middle of the 19th century, education, education, literacy were one of the causes of the Bulgarian revival and this was purely a public cause for the simple reason that we did not have a state then. The meaning of this holiday is not only the historical reviews, the strengthening of national memory and identity. That's not the point, or at least it should be the other way around. It is an illusion, ladies and gentlemen, that a people enlightened once, awakened, educated, will remain one forever and it is enough to put money aside for education in the budget and celebrate on a regular 24 May. Because, like entropy, the dissipation of energy is the destiny of every thermodynamic system, and without will, without effort, without a personal example, any society can be broken down under the influence of entropy, of ignorance, simplicity and unenlightenedness. And it's not an abstract threat that's stalking us today around every corner. Yes, today, when we have institutions, we have an education system, we have a country. Today, the mass-organized resistance to illiteracy is at least as important as during the Renaissance. Firstly, so that we do not melt as a people, a language, a culture in the highly corrosive environment of globalisation. Right in the times of global mass culture, an ecosystem of subcultures, attempts to impose a global language, it is often more important to be Bulgarian as a cultural identity, not as a record of nationality in the column of a form. Secondly, without a common language, culture we cannot be a community, but only a large group of people who live in a whole or purposeless territory. Common culture in the sense of culture shared by everyone, not in the sense of underculture, is probably the strongest fortification element of society! And finally, without enlightenment, without spirituality, there is neither national security nor economic development. What good is it if you have a strong army if someone can take people's souls without a fight? And what economic development are we talking about if the population is illiterate; if the teacher, if the teacher is assigned the heavy responsibility to disperse the darkness of ignorance in relation to the generations that come? We, you, have an even more grave responsibility, I don't know if you feel it on your shoulders. We, on the one hand, must speak for the people, we must speak for the people, give them a direction, which means, honourable Members, that we ourselves should not have a deficit from the direction! And I'm not talking about topography, I'm talking about jumping through letters and difficult transitions on the rough surface of words. Because if something connects us to people, that's the word, the letters, the words, the whole sentences, the numbers, the emotions. There is no way to meet every Bulgarian, there is no way to visit every Bulgarian, and hardly anyone would invite us to visit, but with a written word, a spoken word can come to anyone! And it doesn't matter at all whether you promise Závet or zvet, on Uvaliev, or things, or nothing if we use Heidegger; one or ten if we use the first grade arithmetic textbook. And it's not like we're going to see it, it's not even like we're going to see it, it's not even like I'm going to do it! "Yes" means only and only "to." Our people need clear messages, not elastic fabrics, tangled by the soft edges of the words....................... properly arranged letters. No, my fellow Members, speaking right is not a sadistic whim, but a way to properly arrange the world. And if we use Heidegger again, he used to say that language is the home of existence. Both here and there and from Silistra to Petrich, from the hammer to the Rezovo words make sense. And we have to make sense. We say where we're going, where we've been, where we're going, where we're going, that's our ultimate duty. And please, caught up in party and catholic passions, remember that when we talk here, we give our word to the people who have supported us or not, and that is a heavy responsibility. Please, fellow Members, do not order words in genetic mutations that do not make any sense. Do not count on the fact that by pressing keywords, such as outrage, corruption, robbery, this will make sense if the thought itself is poor. It's as likely as making a successful installation, for example, from a Christmas star and grilled pig ears. Don't say things you don't believe in. They can write you a wonderful speech, only it shows when it comes from the printed list, and it doesn't come from the heart. And no, it's not important to humiliate the political opponent, it's not important. The most important thing is not to humiliate yourself. In this tribune, some young speaker would say it was the pulpit of democracy. No, it's not true, it's just a tool, like a loudspeaker doesn't produce music, it just amplifies it. And be assured that if there are false words, this particular speaker will amplify them to the end. Opening the sticky patches of ignorance is associated with pain. Thus, many prefer to sleep or sleep and escape from the light clichés again. Memory is pain. Forgetting is therapy; efforts are pain.. laziness is sometimes bliss; truth hurts.. lie gives us comfort; status quo, i.e. what is.. status quo, gently lies in its comfort zone, and change is difficult. Happy Thanksgiving! I wish you the sweet pain of remembering, trying to tell the truth and change. Wake up, open your eyes, remember, read, think. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u147	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there any other statements on the name and § 1 of the Bill? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. There is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev, which the Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. One hasn't looked at it. It has taken a decision not to examine and vote on the substance as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. An identical decision must also be adopted by the plenary on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 sentence last, so I suggest, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 sentence last let's not vote on the substance of Alexander Dunchev's proposal. Voting mode. Vote 150 MPs: 98 against 11, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Alexander Dunchev's proposal is not under consideration; we will not vote on it in substance. We move on to Ramadan Atalay's proposal, which is not supported by the leading Commission. We are voting on the proposal of MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs, not supported by the leading Commission. They voted 164 MPs: 51, against 63, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We are now starting on the Commission. I put to the vote the name of the bill, which is in the version of the Energy Commission. Vote 150 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Energy Commission to reject the text of the importer for § 1. Votes for the House mean that we support the leading Commission. Vote 157 MPs: 104 against 2, abstention 51. The motion is accepted. Finally, we remain to vote on § 1 (new) in the version of the Commission. We are voting § 1, as proposed by the Energy Commission. They voted 164 MPs: 109, against 11, abstention 44. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u148	§ 2 by importer. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions are made in § 2: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: - in para. 1 is added. 24 a.m. and the text acquires the following content: (1) In the cases referred to in art. 18, para. Art. 2, Art. 24, 24a and 25 requests for examination of the conditions and method of accession to the relevant electricity network operator shall be submitted under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act. - Al. 2 to fall; - in para. 3 shall be added................................................................................. . (3) For the sites referred to in art. 24, p. 1 et c. Art. 2 and Art. 2 24a The conditions of accession shall be laid down in an opinion issued within 30 days of receipt of the request and in the cases referred to in art. 27, para. 5 - within 15 days of receipt of the request. - in para. 4 the following amendments and additions are made: (4) In the cases referred to in art. 24, p. 1 et c. 2 a preliminary accession treaty shall not be concluded and an accession treaty shall be concluded under the conditions laid down in the opinion referred to in para. 3, and in the case of a valid active building permit. - a new para is being created. 5 with the following content: . (5) the cases under art. 24a preliminary contract and accession contract shall not be entered into. - Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended by the following: In the event of a request for a contract of accession under para. 4 The distribution undertaking shall submit a draft contract within 21 days. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Dunchev: In the original § 2 (new § 8) a new item is added. 2, and the old point 2 becomes point 3: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 2. In paragraph 2, the word "the request" shall be replaced by the word "the notice." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 2, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in a new § 1 on art. 25a.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u149	And the next suggestions, Mr. Ribarsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u150	Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Offers on grounds of art. 80, para. The National Assembly shall not consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Offers on grounds of art. 80, para. The National Assembly shall not consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Offers on grounds of art. 80, para. The National Assembly shall not consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the CST adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Offers on grounds of art. 80, para. The National Assembly shall not consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u151	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. I'm opening a discussion on the texts read by Mr. Fisherman. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the two proposals by the MP Aleksandar Dunchev and the two of the MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs - these are a total of four proposals which the Commission has not examined and voted on the substance on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and on the basis of art. 80, para. Two last sentence. I propose that we adopt a decision by which we do not consider and do not vote essentially on these four proposals. It's an anbloc offer for all four of them. The adoption of such a decision means that all four proposals which the Energy Commission has not addressed will not be voted on in substance. Vote 124 MPs: 110 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal by MP Ramadan Atalay and a group of MPs to amend § 2, which is not supported by the Energy Committee. They voted 150 MPs: 38, against 60, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Alexander Dunchev to amend § 2, which is also not supported by the Energy Committee. They voted 147 MPs: 5 against 53, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the leading Commission for the rejection of § 2, as its systematic place is reflected in § 1. 135 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 36. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u152	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provisions'. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Vladislav Panev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs: In § 3: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 is created. 4. 4 (4) No change of purpose in land estates under art. 8, p. 2 A construction of the sites is allowed, subject to the current legal framework and based on a detailed design plan or visa issued by the main architect of the municipality. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 2 after the words under the terms of art. 12, para. The following shall be added: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 3, p. 11 after the words "objects under art. 12, para. The following shall be added: 4. Point 5 concerning art. 147 point (d) is amended as follows: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: l47 t. 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. installation of installations for the production of electricity, heat and/or energy for cooling from renewable sources with a total installed capacity of up to 1 MW, as well as the linear facilities of technical infrastructure for the connection of such installations to the electricity network; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Radoslav Ribarski, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 1, 2 and 3 after the words 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137, para. 1, t. 3 point (e) shall be added at the end of the 14th year. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 is created t. 14a: 14a. construction of an energy site under art. 25a, para. 1 of the Renewable Energy Act with a total installed capacity of up to 5 MW; (b) in para. 2 is created sentence two: "For the constructions under para. 1, t. 14a Opinion of an engineer-constructor and/or electric engineer with drawings, schemes, calculations and instructions for their implementation and additional agreement to the contract of access and transmission concluded between the final client and the operator of the transmission or of the relevant electricity distribution or closed distribution network shall be submitted. According to § 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Dunchev. The Commission on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 sentence, third and fourth of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted a decision not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Offers on grounds of art. 80, para. 2th sentence 3rd of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly not to consider and vote on the substance of the proposal as inadmissible, as it goes beyond the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. A proposal by the MP Vasil Stefanov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4, which becomes § 3: .................................................. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 6 words................................................................................. 57a, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 57a, para. 1, t. 3b (b) in para. 7 words.............................................................................. 57a, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 57a, para. 1, t. 3b and 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84, para. 21 words. 57a, para. 1, t. 5 shall be replaced by............................................................................................... 57a, para. 1, t. 3b and 5 Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Vladislav Panev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal by the MP Vasil Stefanov, made in accordance with art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 3, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u153	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. I'm opening the discussion. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on behalf of the importers, I would like to withdraw into the "Transitional and final provisions" in § 3 the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The proposal to refer to that in art. 12 is created. 4. Consider it withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. - What's the line? I guess I won't? I won't. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u156	Mr. Chairman! At the moment we are doing another practice, which for 12 years GERB has introduced and changed a series of laws through quite other radically different laws. We adopt the Energy Act and, at the same time, in the Final Regulations, we change one of the very important laws in Bulgaria............................................................................................. In itself this is wrong and should not be done after acting large-scale with your presumption that you are changing an extremely important law and will ease business with which, of course, I do not agree, but it does not matter at all. What is important is that at this point you must introduce and propose changes to the Law on Device in the Area and not to do so in the Final Provisions. This is not the way to fix energy. It is extremely important that this bill influences and gives extremely diverse opinions, these are: at first reading we had a negative opinion of the Ministry of Energy and at the moment we have a negative opinion from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In the latter opinion, it is clear and precisely explained why it should not be done in this way by simply notification, with one declaration to allow for a construction of more than 50 decares in certain options and to do things that can have lasting consequences. None of you commented on this and feels it necessary to say "Why are you ignoring the opinion of one of your ministries? And this is not the Ministry of Culture, this is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. There is no opinion of the Power System Operator. Why? And how are we going to amend the Energy Act right now when there is no opinion in which to clearly and accurately say what this regulatory authority thinks of your proposal that you are currently adopting? There is, by the way, an opinion of only one of the ERPs, only one, the others did not consider it normal to give an opinion to the ruling coalition, which also in itself, as you know, the lack of response is also an answer. In this bill you do not decide or specify what we do with the so-called batteries. Do they have the right to be kept, to apply them in such a quick way that the entire parks are built or not? What is happening to this whole thing called "batteries," and how will it proceed? Looks like we're gonna have to redo the repairs in a few months. No one commented, during the entire debate was raised several times, the problem of creating conditions for corruption, but no one commented and how will it be ensured that when you build such capacities, you will not start selling to your neighbor next to you. With just one affidavit that you won't do it? Will anyone at all take an opinion on these really important things, not for the opposition, things important purely principled, because exactly one week from now, when the Law starts to work and when the companies start working, these problems will start knocking on the door. Will the Energy Commission then take an opinion, will the ministries take an opinion, or will we start preparing for amendments to the Law that you are now adopting? I ask you very much that someone get up from the importers, argue, convince us that all this thing has a solution, a solution, and we will avoid all these thin moments, as announced by Mr. Panev at the beginning of the discussions, that there are some thin moments, but we will tag them afterwards. No, not later, now is the time. Let's solve them, convince us that this is how you will solve these problems, which I am currently raising as real problems to move forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. - What's the line? Mr. Tabutov, okay. Let me just say, it's 1:57 p.m., will there be a time extension procedure? [[Reply.]] There won't be. Okay. Here's a line for you, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ganev, I am surprised that you are still talking about a declaration. This was the original text, we changed the way the relationship between the client and the electricity distribution company is regulated. So, please, get acquainted with the final text. We are not talking here about declarations and, accordingly, the potential risk that you mentioned, whether there will be anyone who will monitor these declarations whether or not they are respected. I'm already describing how relationships will be regulated, so this risk is minimalized. Regarding the absence of an ECO opinion, the ECO is irrelevant, given that it has no contact with the electricity distribution or transmission network. There is therefore no opinion from the ECO. During the Commission's second reading, representatives of all electricity distribution companies were present, and what they submitted as comments was taken into account. So what you expressed as concerns was already addressed during the Commission once again. And here I will address very briefly the subject of security and what has been speculated is a problem. There will be, as at the moment, projects in terms of constructive opinion and electro-projects, which will be agreed anyway and the procedure is currently the same, and security will be ensured. We don't change anything about security here. It simply changes the fact that we will shorten the time by which we will be able to build such plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Mr. Tenev, for a line? [[Reply.]] Here you go, for a second line. The third is Iskren Mitev's, then the doppelganger, and I'm adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ganev, all the opinions of both the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and the committees were taken into account, as were the representatives of the ERPs, as well as the ESOs. So of the original type in which the Renewable Energy Act was proposed to the final, which we accept, all of this has been carried out in the Commission thanks to the opinions of the Ministry of Energy and the ERPs. So you're wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tenev. Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ganev! Please, this is the second point today, you came out unprepared again, read these laws a little bit, prepare yourself better. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u163	Mr. Mitev, let's get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u164	There were changes between the two lines. This is just an insult to the Bulgarian citizens who witness your absolutely empty statements here from the stands. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u165	Here you are, Mr. Ganev, for the back-up with which to put an end to today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u166	The last one who speaks will not comment, he commented on himself and what he says gives his own assessment. Regarding what was said mostly by one of the importers. I'm sorry, I can't agree with what you're saying for one simple reason. At the beginning of the discussion, you said that there was no problem with the regulation of the European directive, then I showed you how there is a problem in the way of defining what you give as a definition of end-user. The same goes for everything you've listed. It was nice to comment on the substance of these problems that I have raised right now. You didn't comment on them. I will just mention that the ERPs have come and commented does not mean that they will stand up with their signatures, with their views in writing it matters. It matters that only one ERP has considered it necessary and it is credible to guarantee what it has said. It matters and you say: ECO has no opinion. On the contrary, there are a lot of hypotheses here, in which they should have an opinion, and that is why they do not give an opinion, because it would not be good for you as a ruling coalition if they give an objective opinion. What they'll give, I have no idea, but if it's objective, it's hardly for the importers. With regard to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. If I have to quote a hypothesis for which it is necessary to lay down provisions in legislation which oblige the contracting authority of the installation to provide in an investment project technical means to limit the return of electricity produced to the network. In this case, the only, the declarative nature of the fact of the intended limitation of return, we consider to be an insufficiently reliable approach. That's for the other replicator. It is good for your minister, because he is from your quota, to agree with him, because his ministry gives a negative opinion on what you are discussing, and you are currently disproveing him. Is it I.N.N. against his minister, or is the minister against you? I have no idea, and I don't care, the point is, there are irresponsible cases. About the batteries, you didn't say anything about how we proceed with this bill, if someone decides to do a quick procedure, to build a battery system? Doesn't matter, the bill looks like we're gonna be changing it again recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mladen Shishkov is listed for a speech, but he will stay for the next time. Due to running out of time, I'm adjourned. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u168	There were two declarations.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-05-25.u169	They shall not extend the time of the meeting only when they are during parliamentary control. The next regular meeting will be held tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
