ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There are 171 Members of Parliament registered. We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Affidavit? Here you are, Mrs. Mihailova. You have the floor for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister in resignation, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Fuel prices in Bulgaria reach historical values and trends are more than worrying. As the cold months approach, more and more Bulgarian families will become financially weak as a result of the national irresponsible behaviour of our government. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u3	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u4	No, it's not about today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u5	Let's hear it, guys. Mrs. Mihaylova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u6	In the face of this harsh reality, the Bulgarian prime minister decided to play geopolitics as if it were a trade of questionable food supplements. First were the hasty sanctions against the Russian Federation, which we supported without thinking about the consequences. Then came the insane refusal to pay for gas supplies and the urgent visit to the United States, where Mr. Petkov had to request some urgent supplies with an unclear horizon in the future. It has come to the culmination in the government's ignorance, which we have just witnessed. Pó Catholics from the pope, we managed to amaze the world by banishing 70 employees to a country with which we have no practical interest in ending our relationship. As complicated as Russia's relations with the West are today, we cannot move the deposits of natural resources that the whole of Europe relies on, and that is clear even to children. Such are the facts and no Euro-Atlantic spells are capable of changing them. On the contrary, everyone in this Chamber should be aware that when it comes to the standard of living of the Bulgarians, all ideological clichés, all personal beliefs and all political preferences must be in the background. In order to be adequate to the situation, we need a simple thing to work on the basis of reality. And the reality is that about 70% of our oil processing is Russian. The reality is that this origin is also more than 90% of the diesel fuel distributed in Bulgaria. Every responsible politician should be aware that Lukoil Neftohim "Burgas" is one of the most powerful industrial enterprises even at European level and generates nearly 10% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product. Here comes a question: are you able, honourable Members, to look at the situation clearly, beyond the ideological concepts of your overseas, to call it partners? Because of the Organization of the countries - exporters of oil - are adamant that not Bulgaria, but the whole European Union to date there is no alternative to Russian oil supplies. In the media there are statements from colleagues from "We continue the Change" and "Democratic Bulgaria" who generously distribute statements from "alangro" as the Prime Minister said in resignation, how Bulgaria can easily find an alternative to Russian raw materials. In fact, even if such an alternative exists, let's face it, it will be much, much more expensive. According to experts, possible supply of tankers from Turkey or Greece would have a significantly higher final price. There are clear limitations on the tonnage of ships passing through the Bosporus. If we had an economic benefit from such diversification, we certainly didn't need to wait for Russia and Ukraine to be at war to realize it. We will be very expensive, colleagues, our community commitments and your Komsomol flame to defend them every last penny in the budget of Bulgarian families. Meanwhile, we have learned that for the first six months of this year, 24 million have been unloaded in our country. crude oil barrels, while last year's quantity was 17 million for the same period. barrels. I think it's more than clear where it goes more than fuel obtained after processing. To Ukraine! But it is not clear at all what the direct effects of this export on the Bulgarian market and what part of the Bulgarian companies would consider it more profitable to sell their fuels on the Ukrainian market, where the purchased prices are significantly higher. Yesterday it became clear that the Russian Federation is working on concrete countermeasures against the unprecedented and politically infantile improvisation of Prime Minister Petkov to expel dozens of diplomatic representatives and many employees without such status. We will soon find out what they will be and how correct the direct consequences for the bilateral relations will be, but especially for the life of the ordinary Bulgarian. Dear colleagues, in real politics there is no room for childish improvisations, because they always lead to real consequences. There is no room for sentiments and preferences when it comes to the prosperity of Bulgarian citizens. We have always stated that the Community commitments often differ with the national interest, and it is the duty of every Bulgarian politician to place it as his main priority. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Before we move on to the agenda, I have two messages for you to meet. Yesterday in the Ministry of the National Assembly was notified by the MPs Momchil Ivanov, Toshko Yordanov and Alexander Alexandrov on the basis of art. 81 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act, No 47-254-01-62, of 3 June 2022. The second message reads as follows: On 4 July 2022, the Annual Report on the status of financial management and control systems and the internal audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 was received at the National Assembly. The report was adopted by decision of the Court of Auditors of 28 June 2022. The material is presented to the Budget and Finance Committee and the Public Fund Control Commission. Colleagues, in connection with the first item, which we adopted for today, namely the hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria in resignation Cyril Petkov and the Minister of Energy in Retirement Alexander Nikolov on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the delivery and price of natural gas, in this regard, the following documents have been received in the National Assembly's case-law, which constitute classified information, namely: Report No. NSA, Reg. No 1-548 of 6 July 2022, as well as AB-2030-01-01-001-05/2-35 of 12 May 2022. They are with a Griff The following documents have been received from the State Agency: weekly information for the period 01.07.2017, Reg. No AB-2020-01-001-03-KA-6-19-31 of 11 December 2017, as well as weekly information for the period 21 September No AB-2020-01-001-03-KA-6-15-07 of 10 October 2017 These papers came in late yesterday during the day. I have ordered them to be made available to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly, which are located in the Secret Office. So any MP can meet them. In so far as they have entered the National Assembly's case-law, it is in connection with this hearing that the persons to be heard today, Prime Minister and Minister, please confirm whether these documents will be the subject of the hearing today?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u9	Colleagues, to the extent that information which is classified should be provided on the basis of art. 44, para. 1, t. 2 This sitting should be closed. This should not be voted on in accordance with para. 4, which is why I will ask that all cameras and microphones in the room and all outsiders be switched off. You have the floor for procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u10	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct for two reasons. The first reason is that you have just reported materials that have been admitted to the Secret Office. The secret office of the National Assembly is located in the other building, the so-called Party House. Firstly, do you think that the Members of the National Assembly, having started a plenary session, can get acquainted with the reports in question at the moment? Secondly, do you think you can apply double arsin in the work of the National Assembly? Just 10 days ago, there was a proposal for an open meeting of the National Assembly by you regarding the decisions on Northern Macedonia and a hearing of Minister Genchovska. At that time the majority in fierce resistance claimed that there was nothing to be hidden from the Bulgarian citizens. So how did the decisions on Northern Macedonia, the memorable notes, the dual foreign policy and everything that happened in the Council of Ministers on this case become public, and the topic of gas price, gas supply, with contracts concluded, with tankers, with the lack of natural gas and gas connection for diversification suddenly becomes a topic that Bulgarian citizens should not hear? How do you imagine that the topic of increasing 32% of the natural gas increase requested by the KEWRC will remain outside the Bulgarian citizens and their hearing capacity because this determines both the price for the business and the price for the household and the price for the heating and everything else? Mr. Chairman, don't make this mistake! Bulgarian citizens, who are taxpayers and pay your salary, and those who resign, must know what has happened during the entire six months of failed management...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u11	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u12	And they must learn it now from the Chamber and from the hearing in question! I strongly ask you not to put this proposal to the vote. [[(Replies from]] I think you'd be mistaken. Otherwise, if you do decide to make a mistake, I am making a motion to postpone the hearing until the MPs get acquainted with the documents in question that I was able to write, I do not know whether correctly, in the Secret Office of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Dobrev, before I give the floor to Mr. Ananiev and Mr. Stefanov, I should point out a few things. The griffin of the documents from the State Agency is "National Security" and is "Secretly." In addition, there is absolutely no double standard because two weeks ago, when we heard Minister Genchovska, she did not say that the subject of the hearing would be information that was classified. [[(Replying and shouting from GERB-SDS and ITN: "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] Wait a minute! Apart from that, no documents had been submitted to the National Assembly. [[(Replying and shouting from GERB-SDS: ……]] Yes, you are! At the time of the hearing, there were no documents. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS and ITN.]] In today's meeting, both Minister Nikolov and the Prime Minister said that their answers will contain information that is part of these documents, which I quoted, so no analogy can be made between the two cases at all. Colleagues, I will make a suggestion, however, that the other parliamentary groups also express an opinion: should we postpone this point so that all colleagues can get acquainted with the documents presented in the case-law, possibly delay it to later today or tomorrow? Mr. Dobrev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am the importer of this request for a hearing and you are currently distorting my will, so to speak, because I do not want to be given any secret information. I want this hearing to make it clear what the price of gas is, and will it be there, which means we don't want to know anything secret, and I see no reason why you're closing the meeting. We want Bulgarian citizens to hear that the gas has jumped 32% since the beginning of this month, that next month it will jump again, that it probably will not even be there at all and I see nothing secret about it, that is to say I am strongly opposed as an importer of this proposal for a hearing to close this meeting. In my opinion, you are doing this to hide the truth from Bulgarian citizens, but you will not succeed. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]] Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, Mr. Stefanov, Mr. Kostadinov, Mr. Balabanov and Mr. Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u15	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! My procedure is in the manner of conducting things that we have heard from the unspeakable colleagues. I think that everyone who attended Mrs. Genchovska's hearing, we saw when she was asked whether or not there would be secret documents, she did not respond, and this was stated very clearly by the Prime Minister and the Minister and by our appointment without voting, the meeting was closed. The problem we see in GERB, however, is that they do not want information and the truth what is happening and how some of this truth is secreted because of the rules of the state, they want political speaking, pointing fingers, but the truth is actually in the report of the DANS and when the meeting is closed, we will be able to discuss it. Okay, I agree with the argument. I met him this morning, I went, I met him, but everyone has the right to meet, 240 MPs. I'm okay. Let's reschedule a week for next Thursday. [[(Voices from GERB-SDS and ITN: ……]] , to give all colleagues the opportunity to get acquainted with the report, as they still cannot 240 people read two reports at once, it will take time for this thing, and next week, after they get acquainted with the colleagues, to do the hearing, because really the information there is very interesting and I am very interested in some of the answers that you will give as a guide precisely on the issues that you raise in this hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Kostadinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u17	Mr. Chairman, the work of this current National Assembly is becoming increasingly meaningless. Only two weeks ago, we had a similar case here where we listened to the Prime Minister on the case with the decision to expel Russian diplomats. Then we asked to get acquainted with the reports that he referred to as grounds for the withdrawal of these Russian diplomats from our country. We were told: "Yes, you can meet them afterwards. " - That was no problem at the time. We are now told that first perhaps we should meet and then listen to the Prime Minister. In an absolutely identical situation, two different solutions. Not to mention what was mentioned here about Genchovska's hearing. She then said clearly and categorically and is written in the protocol.. There is no need now to make a stenography reference to the question that she was asked: "Yes, there are documents that refer to those with a griff................................................................................................................................................... From this point of view, we AGE to consider the following. If someone here now wants to hide what is actually yesterday it has already been made clear that there is an increase in the price of gas, or rather one will be asked with more than 30%. 32 was the exact amount, and if someone wants now here to hide the details of the economic catastrophe to which our country is headed, it is an attempt to hide something extremely important from the eyes of the Bulgarian society. It's not gonna happen. We don't have to say it. As for these so-called closed meetings. As many times as we have heard from the DANS reports here, we have never heard anything, because closed sittings before 240 MPs is, to put it mildly, Big Brother, and from this point of view, it is absolutely pointless and we will never hear anything concrete. It is only right that the Prime Minister here as the man who still rules the state and on whom the fates of six and a half million Bulgarians depend will provide answers to the questions to be seen by every Bulgarian citizen. If this thing does not happen, we do not see the point of being here in this Chamber at all, and I will call on my colleagues to simply leave and not provide a quorum for such masquerade and hypocritical circuses.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. I would not like to give an assessment of what is hypocritical, what is a masquerade, because just to remind you how it was conducted and how it came to the Prime Minister's hearing last week. It was held by a decision of the National Assembly, including with your votes of the National Assembly, and it will be in an hour and a half. With all due respect, for an hour and a half there is no way for any institution to prepare any information, to provide it in the Ministry of the National Assembly and even less public representatives to get to know it, so that you, by voting on this hearing last week, will be held in an hour and a half, you yourself said: "No, we do not want to get acquainted with these documents before the hearing. So let's not speculate, let's not distort the facts. At the moment we have received documents in the Chamber of National Assembly, which have received an accompanying letter stating explicitly that they are for the hearing to be held today, and I provide the opportunity or the MPs with a vote to take a decision to postpone this point so that you can meet or hear what the Prime Minister and the Minister have to tell us and then get acquainted with the documents. If necessary, a retrial may be held, colleagues. This is the simple truth that I think is easy to understand. Are there any other procedures, Mr. Balabanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure, of course, is in the way of conduct, because we've been talking about archaic in this room for half an hour. Now the negotiators also said that at a meeting about 10 days ago, the situation was like this. First there was a vote in plenary that the sitting at that time was put to the table. Two votes were held, and it was closed. The reporters had left the hall, we had taken out our phones to listen to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in closed session regarding documents with a secret griff, such as the procedure, and these documents, Mr. Chairman, you were mistaken because they were introduced into the National Assembly the night before. Then he presided from this tribune another man who broke the law and is no longer president of this National Assembly, after which you through procedural loops did everything possible, all you could really do to get the then Minister of Foreign Affairs to commit a crime just so that he wouldn't break the law of these documents. Now I don't believe what the Prime Minister might be worried about in resignation. So let the whole of Bulgaria watch and listen, because we are all consumers, we all care what happens at the cost of gas, so let the meeting be opened, let the reporters report it live. Never has the Prime Minister in resignation allowed himself to lie, so let him speak with facts and hear all the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u20	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Regarding your procedure. Mr. Balabanov, please take a look at art. 44, para. 1. There are two hypotheses of point one and point two. I would like you to meet the transcript of that plenary sitting in which the following happened. Minister Genchovska was asked: whether documents that are classified information will be discussed, and she did not give a positive answer, respectively we cannot enter into para. 1... [[ITN lines]] [[Reply from MP Hristo Terziyski.]] Mr. Terziysky, I'd like you to meet the shorthand. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Meet the transcript, it's not classified. If you want and if you think I'm lying, introduce her to the media. Introduce her to the media! I didn't say that, unlike you. You say I'm lying. Then we could not get into point two, but at point one, which is put to the vote, and that is why President Nikola Minchev then invited the guests in the Chamber to come out because the motivation itself was done in closed session, and Mr. Yordanov's request was for a hearing in closed session, that is to say, he had to motivate why he wanted to be closed and therefore the journalists were invited to leave, respectively the meeting was closed at point one, which is done by voting in the Chamber. Mr. Tsonev, since we haven't heard the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u21	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. I regret that for the second time in less than a week I have to remind you of some things, but do not feel obliged to enter into detailed explanations from the place you occupy, because you are beyond the Rules. You're there to give the floor, not to give the mind. [[Laughter]] Every parliamentary group and every MP has the right to an opinion, and you, again, do not feel compelled to disprove its opinion, because we will enter into some... [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Ananiev, do you understand why they treat you so aggressively every time? To say it in front of the whole audience. [[Laughter]] Because from where you're standing, you call like a radio point. Do you understand? [[Laughter and applause from GERB-SDS and DPS.]] And you don't shine with any originality. That's right...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u22	Mr. Tsonev, don't enter the controversy, please! Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u23	Well, make him a note. Every time he talks from there, from place to place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u24	It's not just him, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u25	Where's that in the book?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u26	Unfortunately, it's not just him.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u27	No, it's just him, he just shines in the room with these phone calls, and then the aggression was on him. Of course, when you challenge her...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u28	Oh, so on purpose?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u29	That's right, on purpose. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, well, you're safe. Yeah, that's how it's gonna be. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Chairman, it's the easiest way to get into such explanations, to tell you that there were exactly two inaccuracies in your last explanation. You know the other synonym of inaccuracies. President Minchev, the ex who came out of this place with our applause, because he managed the man within the framework of decency, left everyone convinced that he was shot down because he was absolutely innocent. No, it's just in her procedure and you now lied, to tell you already with the full true name, it wasn't like that. First of all, I have the transcript and I read it. Minister Genchovska said: "What I'm going to say is referencing to Griff documents, which means that in order for us to know everything, we need to refer to documents with Griff "Secretly" and "References" does not mean that we should not have a closed session, this first. It's in the transcript of her response, I've read it. And secondly, the former chairman sent us to the Secret Section to read who he wants. His words were: "The man who wants to go and read. " There, first of all, there were no employees because they were here. We asked them, "Why are you here?" and they said to us, "I am keeping us here." and secondly, he had not signed us to read the documents. He didn't sign them till 1:10. Now take my speech at exactly 13:00 p.m., where I turn around and tell him, "The time is 13:00 p.m. and you didn't sign the papers and send us to read about it. "Is that his innocence?! Yeah, you guys gotta pick it up! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Gazhev or Mrs. Atanasova? [[Heckling]] Find out in what order. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u31	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u32	You want one too, Mr. Atalay? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u33	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister in resignation! Now, remind me, there are two documents, as far as I understand one of the DANS, which is classified...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u34	Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u35	Four documents. And what are the other documents, if you could just remind me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u36	Two from the Ministry and two from the NSA, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u37	I mean, the minister himself has sealed off the documents he's about to present to us. As for the hearing...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u38	He's probably legally obligated to do that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u39	Now it's a question of seeing if there's really classified information inside. Unfortunately, I, like some other colleagues, have not slept in the Party House building that I could, distributed yesterday evening documents, read them the morning before 8:00. But you mentioned the transcript for the discussion of Mrs. Genchovska and the discussion at the time. Since I then took the floor, I sought to see my speech and what to see That's what the transcript says. In the shorthand itself writes: "Nikola Minchev announces under art. 44, para. 3 before giving the floor for a reasoned request........... the meeting to be held in closed doors.......................................................................................... The Stenogram that follows, from an hour and a debate, is closed and has a griff. I mean, we can't meet her because she's classified. So there was a closed session during this point. But back to the example. Then you, or rather, the then President of the "We continue the Change" insisted, although then Mrs. Genchovska refered and said she would turn with documents of classified content. In the open transcript she also repeats it and says that she cannot answer, as she should refer to documents with classified content. Then President Minchev said the following without quoting it verbatim: if you want to have an additional meeting on this topic, get acquainted with the document. Now let's hold the open session, and then, when you get acquainted with the document, then we'll do a second, closed session, because, you see, the motive is the importers didn't ask for a closed session. At the moment, importers also do not want a closed session. Let us observe what you were defending for the right 15 days ago and proceed with an open session when there is already time and opportunity for people to get acquainted with the documents. Because even with a few hours off, I guess there'll be more than one willing to read them. Then let's have an additional closed session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Yordanov, make it Mrs. Atanasova, and then you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume you are aware that from this debate we are going back ten days and overthrowing President Minchev, overthrowing the government, we do not need it right now. We need something else and it is to hold a hearing in the open session as the importer Delyan Dobrev requested under art. 47, para. 3 that is: A hearing of the Prime Minister in resignation and the Minister of Energy in resignation on the supply and price of natural gas shall be held. I, Mr. President, believe that it is absolutely necessary now to have an open session and to discuss these issues, and you can make a proposal next week - Mr. Ananiev has already made such a proposal, to hold a closed session and to discuss the four documents in question, which are in the Secret Office. But the price of gas, I repeat: 32% more wants from yesterday to the KEWRC. [[Heckling]] It's unclear, it's not a secret, what's the secret of this?! In addition, it is not clear whether these supplies of LPG are available or not? Where are the tanks in question unloaded? [[Noise and lines.]] Lapsus, I'm sorry. Let me point out that a long time ago... It's been a long time since June 6th and June 8th and June 23rd, and no one has any information on it. These are the issues on the agenda. I therefore propose that we hold the open session at the point that we all voted on yesterday to enter today's plenary session and that it be a hearing about the price and supply of gas. The following week Mr. Ananiev suggested that we have a closed session on this agenda - the four documents that have been received in the Secret Office and which follow all, you are right Mr. Ananiev, 240 MPs to get acquainted with. We can't do this Adhok right now, everyone. Therefore, please put this procedural proposal to the vote: an open meeting on the item on the agenda. If Mr. Ananiev wants us to have a procedure closed next week, with another agenda on the subject of these 2017 reports, which do not know what they have to do with the state of energy in 2022, please also move on to such a discussion afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Toshko Yordanov, then Mr. Stoynev, as from the BSP to Bulgaria......................................... to Bulgaria........ no one has spoken, and then Mr. Atalay. [[Heckling]] Mr. Atalay, on the same principle, Mr. Tsonev took the floor before several colleagues who had raised their hands earlier. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice for the MPs to respect what the MPs really want, because at the previous meeting, when we wanted to hear Minister Genchovska, we wanted a closed session, and you did it openly. At the moment, the importers want an open session, and you're trying to do it indoors. Either way, you are doing it because in one case you were afraid that directly read the documents here in the Chamber would become brutally clear what the former Prime Minister Kiril Petkov did, and at the moment you want to hide people from hearing the questions that Kiril Petkov would still have to answer because he was the person who in the United States at some meeting with Kamala Harris, lasting between 30 seconds and two minutes for a photo, negotiated a new gas. He has to answer. The Minister of Energy there was to shine with reflected light because the leader and father of everything negotiated cheap gas and promised it had it. This must be heard by the citizens. Now you want to hide it. After all, last time the meeting was opened and Minister Genchovska was, and she was intelligent enough, and she answered precisely enough without breaking the law, so we all understood what was written in those documents. I mean, it's a point. Whoever went to read them saw that they did. I am convinced that Mr. Nikolov is also intelligent enough to answer the questions without breaking the law, although some are with a Griff. I am not sure the same for the Prime Minister who screwed up a military rescue operation for the Bulgarian sailors said that there is intelligence involved, which was simply genius, but I hope he will gather to respond and he intelligently enough without breaking the law. So, please, keep the will of the MPs, let this sitting be opened.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u44	Mr. Yordanov, at the previous meeting, it was not me or Mr. Minchev who decided, but the Chamber decided. [[Noise and lines.]] There is a big difference between who has decided to open or close the meeting. Mr. Stoyev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues, we have been debating for 40 minutes on a procedure which, for me personally, is entirely unnecessary. There was a time when we didn't see the Prime Minister here. Now the Prime Minister has come with the Minister to answer our questions and I propose to the President of the National Assembly that the speeches be terminated and started the procedure. Whether it will be closed or not, the parliament will decide. But, honourable Members, you know very well that there is a trade secret in all contracts. Whether it's open or closed, the Prime Minister has no right to mention these parameters. He's got the appropriate reports he wants, he can go and meet them. So I suggest we get started, because we all have questions. The price of natural gas from yesterday is clear what it is. You can ask yourself, colleagues from the opposition, specific questions. We BSP as a coalition partner also have questions. Let's start the procedure. After all, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy have come to parliament to answer questions from the MPs. I don't understand why we're delaying time right now, why are we really trying to be so interesting? Let's start this procedure, finish it and get on with our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u46	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Atalay. [[Heckling]] Mr. Svilensky, I'll give you the floor, too. [[Heckling]] Wait a minute, guys. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister, welcome! I'll try to explain to Mr. Stoinev why we're delaying the procedure. Dear colleagues, there is a request from Mr. Dobrev for a hearing of the Minister of Energy and the Prime Minister for the price of gas and gas supplies. As you can see, the Prime Minister and the Minister have prepared themselves and are here with us, Mr. Stoinev, and are very eager to come out and tell us that missing information about society and the MPs. If all the information received from the MPs and the public knew what was happening with the price of gas and the gas supply, there would be no hearing, and that is why the meeting should be opened in order not to re-transmit what happened when the Prime Minister with Borislavova, with Asen Vassilev were and agreed the gas, what happens with the security and stability of gas supplies and how the enterprises in Bulgaria will work from now on. Mr. Chairman, I don't know why you want the House to make a decision again when the House made a decision yesterday? You want the MPs to vote on the Prime Minister's conscience and not on their conscience? You told them in advance that there should be a closed session. Documents that were submitted five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u48	There will be no vote, Mr. Atalay. Under the Rules of Procedure, it will be closed. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u49	Under the rules, Mr. Minchev is gone. [[Laughter and applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u50	He's gone for a vote, Mr. Atalay. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] You're mistaking procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u51	Now, please understand, I'm really not out picking on anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u52	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u53	I came out with the best desire to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to come out and brag, to say what he's done so far in connection with gas supplies, after stopping the gas from our only supplier. Why are you taking away the Prime Minister's opportunity to come out on this stage and say what happened? My request is, Mr. Stoinev I think he understands, let's start as the agenda has been adopted at an open session. If there's anything they can't tell us, we're going to go and read what they didn't want to tell us, but there's nothing secret that can't be said from here. Prime Minister, if there's anything secret, don't say it. [[Laughter from DPS and GERB-SDS.]] We'll find out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u54	The weather, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u55	But I beg you very much, let's be high. We can't take away the Prime Minister's opportunity to tell us what he's done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u56	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u58	I'm only making one clarification, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Minchev left because the House decided, not by the rules. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I invite you, fellow Members...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u59	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u60	Wait a minute, Mr. Atalay. I didn't give you the floor. Once you do a procedure in the manner of conduct, I also have my two minutes to respond especially when the procedure is aimed at me personally. And I, for three weeks, Mr. Atalay, have given the new majority the opportunity to elect a chairman. The new majority won't do it. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] If I am so uncomfortable with you, if I do not follow the Rules of Procedure, the point of election of President is included in the Weekly Programme and I will make a procedural proposal that it be the first for today's agenda. Then let's see what the court decides! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u61	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u62	I didn't give you the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u63	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u64	I'm sorry, but there are a few other colleagues waiting. What's it about, Mr. Atalay, the personal explanation? About what? [[Reply from MP Ramadan Atalay.]] Mr. Atalay, I didn't give you the floor. Please! [[Heckling]] Mr. Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u65	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u66	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u67	Colleagues, I ask you very much, if we enter into a dialogue right now what happened to Mr. Minchev, what will happen now with Mr. Ivanov, we will lose a lot of time. Please, let's start working today and everything will be clear. That's my request.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u68	All right, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Svilenski, then Mr. Gurov, then Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Mr. Cholakov, Mr. Manev and then Mr. Yordanov. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Rules clearly and accurately describe how today's sitting should take place. Article 44, para. 1, t. 2 says: "When there are documents in the Secret Office, the President is obliged, whoever he is, to record the meeting without voting. " It's very, very clearly written. If anyone isn't aware, that's another question. Mrs. Atanasova in the first procedure requested that the proposal not be voted on. The second one asked for a vote. If, Mr President, there is a desire from the Chamber of Members to request a closed session, it is also written in the Rules of Procedure, but it is not signed when it is asked openly what needs to be done. For indoors it is clear or one of us wants this thing, you turn off the microphones, we draw here arguments why it should be closed, the room decides. In this case, we are clearly not in this hypothesis, but we are in the hypothesis of art. 44, para. 1, t. 2 p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p. 4 where it says no vote. This is your right, and you are absolutely right that, by virtue of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly has been replaced, but under the same rules, we have been watching for three weeks how those who brought down the President cannot now propose a new one. And now they're accusing you of breaking the rules. Colleagues, for three weeks you cannot broadcast one candidate for President of the National Assembly, but you frighten anyone who sits behind to lead, including Christian Vigenin, and Miroslav Ivanov, who starts the meeting, you frighten him with the Rules. There is a great risk of releasing the entire Presidency without proposing people to lead the meeting. So, Mr. Chairman, my procedure, except in the manner of conduct, is also formal, to proceed to a closed session and to stop with these procedures more. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u70	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Gurov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Obviously, today we need to have a hearing that will answer some questions, namely, how the current government is dealing with the management of a crisis that has been created by the former rulers. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]] We've seen that he's doing very well so far. The gas didn't stop. The businesses are secured. So my request is as follows: because there are many actions that have caused these consequences and this crisis, we naturally need to get acquainted with all documents classified or not which have led to this state of affairs in which we now have to look for answers to your problems. So in this regard, because we want to get acquainted with the documents, I would ask Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova also to provide the MPs here to get acquainted with the road map that she signed with Mrs. Gszprom, in order to have all the information and to know why, and the Bulgarian citizens to understand in the end why these things happen and what the Bulgarian government does to protect them from the former rulers. [[(Applause, chanting by..) We continue The Change...................................................................................................]] Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u72	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mrs. Petkova, you have the floor, whether it's a personal explanation or a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u73	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister in resignation, Mr. Minister of Energy in resignation. I'll start with the procedure for you first, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I urge you to stop this masquerade for one reason only. You're talking about secrecy at the hearing. What are you secreting?! This company, which works with the information related to natural gas supplies, is called Bulgargaz. This company doesn't even have a secret record. What secret documents are you talking about and what do you want to hide from many of the Bulgarian citizens?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Stop it! I understand your party discipline, I understand your loyalty to your presidents because they are more than one of your party's, but just be professional and responsible to your tasks and to the obligations you have towards this House. There's nothing classified. I've been in the Ministry of Energy for seven years, I've had the honor of being a minister of energy, and I'm telling you there's nothing classified about this information. It's information that's public. It must be transparent and be accessible to every Bulgarian citizen. Because those who pay the price are the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business. What are you gonna hide?! What is secret about the fact that you have brought the company into bankruptcy? That the company is in financial collapse. Is this the secret information?! Or that yesterday the CEO of Bulgargaz said that there was no gas, that gas was not provided by the end of the year. Is that what you have to hide from people?! I think you want to hide a big lie, Mr. Chairman, another lie from this government. I understand that the lie has been raised into a cult by this government, but you have no right to lie again. When the Prime Minister was on TV explaining how successful you were with natural gas supplies, he was fine. Now suddenly, when failure is in place, the meeting must be secret, and people must not know what happened. Lies are short legs. Your time is up. So tell the truth to the Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u75	Personal explanation for the road map.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u76	That was the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u77	No, that was the procedure for you. Personal explanation, Mr. Chairman, regarding what Mr. Gurov mentioned about the road map. As I recall, in another meeting of the National Assembly, the services informed that the roadmap was made available to the Members of the National Assembly. Even Mr. Atanasov said he met her and saw that there was my signature. Of course it's my signature because I was Minister of Energy at the time. Tell me, is there anything disturbing about this road map, Mr. Atanasov, that you saw? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u78	Mr. Sylvie Kirilov wanted the word a long time ago. [[Reply.]] He's giving up. Okay. Mr. Cholakov or Mr. Manev, as you agree? I'm recording you too, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, at some point we will really have to stop these procedures that are statements on the substance. So far, I am tolerant, because the issue is specific and I am giving the groups an opportunity to express their opinion. But agree, there is no way that 240 MPs can express their opinion in a procedure that is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. So at some point, I'm gonna start taking the floor, guys. Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The procedure will really be procedure and it will really be for you. True, you will need it to carry out, a little assistance and to the right of the standing Prime Minister in resignation and his resigned minister. Colleagues, I'm going to start by saying that this National Assembly of all the National Assembly that I remember is probably the most secret. If we make one reference, we will certainly find that more requests for secret committee meetings, parliamentary sessions and documents are not available at other meetings. The most interesting thing, however, I have bothered to check is that in fact the most secret topic in this National Assembly is energy. If someone thinks it's national security, if someone thinks it's guns, if someone thinks it's an army, the police, the DANS, not energy! And in this regard, since the President has apparently decided that he will apply the Rules directly today, he will record the sitting because someone has told him that there are some secret documents in a secret section that we need to read. And he made up his mind. And whatever we talk about here, he'll do it rightfully, without right, with respect to us, without respect for us, it doesn't matter. I have a proposal for you, Mr. Chairman, and the Prime Minister in resignation. Record the accounts of the people and the companies. Record them, put a griff on 'em, 'trogo classified', because whatever we talk about here today, whatever you're hiding or not hiding, whatever we're secreting today, eventually what you're doing, in a few days, in a couple of weeks, every Bulgarian citizen will get a bill, each company will get an invoice and go, and he'll squeeze his money out there. And that would be your fault. [[Replyes: "The time has run out. "]] For the time to remind me, and not to remind me, at the beginning of my speech, the President made a long introductory speech, but I was finished. I suggest you secure and account the monthly accounts of the people with a Griffin. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Wait a minute, Mr. Cholakov. In response to Mr. Manev's procedure, I do not know if it is the most secret National Assembly in history that you remember, but it is certainly the National Assembly, where the most effective parliamentary control is being held. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Because Mr. Kiril Petkov, unlike Mr. Borisov every time he is called, with very few exceptions is in the Chamber, answers our questions. And not just him. So this is the most effective parliamentary control that has been taking place for sure in the last 20 years. For procedure, Mr. Venko Sabrutev. Then Mr. Cholakov. [[DPS lines.]] Mr. Tsonev, you've already spoken once, let's give other colleagues the opportunity to take the attitude. Mr. Sabrutev, come in. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u82	Turn to me, Mr. Tsonev, the procedures are for me. Here you go, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u83	I'd like to make a procedural proposal. It has just become clear from Mrs. Petkova that there is nothing secret about this information, I quote. My procedural proposal is if Mrs. Petkova believes that there is nothing secret in these documents to come out and read them at an open session. Mrs. Petkova, one thing is clear and it is that the only thing that is unsecret in this room is the truth that for many years you and Mr. Borisov lied to us that so-called energy diversification, gas supplies and so on was made. It became clear that in the last seven years more than 90% of the supplies are from Russia. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u84	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Cholakov, come in. Until Mrs. Petkova gets out, Mr. Cholakov, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u85	Dear colleagues, I am watching this discussion, listening to it from the sidelines, and I suppose that, like most of you, I am asking myself: what is really going on? And I come to the conclusion that what's going on, Mr. Chairman, is that you're making me into an ahmak. I don't like feeling ahmak. I don't like being bullied. And they're messing with us and we're falling for it. And I can't figure out why we're buying it. Why are we so naive?! These two people here have decided to mess with the National Assembly for the last time. They're gonna be messing around for a few more hours. And I don't understand why we fall for it. Why do we keep going? There's nothing secret that doesn't make sense. Colleagues before me said, so these secrets, you see how funny everything is. You see how pathetic it is. It's another mantra, something classified as secret, and we still get caught up in God's, secret, secret meetings, who knows what secrets. What secrets does this country have? What's a secret? A secret that these people deprived Bulgaria of energy resources as a result of which the economy will collapse and for me this is a deliberate action. Intentional and purposeful performance for six months of action. This isn't about chaos. This is about a plan to destroy this country's economy. And there's no way to hide it, because it has to become obvious. They make it so obvious. Let's continue our session, listen to what they have to say. They won't tell us anything, of course. For a few more hours, we'll look at their cheeky smiles, and then we'll open up all the accounts...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u86	Mr. Cholakov, with respect, if you please to the Prime Minister and the ministers in the Chamber. Let's not impose punishments, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u87	...will open all protocols and everything will be known what it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u88	With respect to representatives of the Council of Ministers. Neither Mr. Petkov nor Mr. Nikolov have come out to tell you what your smile is. Please respectfully, though. This is extremely unacceptable. Where are we?! With all due respect to you, where are we?! Elementary upbringing to show. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mrs. Petkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues! My personal explanation is to Mr. Sabrutev. Mr. Sabrutev, you cannot forgive Mr. Borisov for making the diversification of gas reality. You can't forgive him! You just can't fit into your skin! Where does liquefied natural gas for Bulgaria come from now? By infrastructure that we've done. Is that clear?! Do you understand that?! You made so that under the motto for energy diversification Bulgaria again receives Russian gas, but 30% higher price because of your intermediaries. Is that what your diversification is?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And perhaps you should have heard, Mr. Sabrutev, true that years ago, you were working in NEC, but you should know that even then, in 2019, and in 2020 we made the first deliveries of liquefied natural gas to Bulgaria. We delivered half a billion cubic metres of gas, including from the United States of America on 3 June 2019 and 2020. So you don't brag about imports of liquefied natural gas, you don't find America. We have done it long before you, because we care about what will happen to Bulgaria. And you're the one who got things there so there's no gas. And yesterday, the Executive Director of Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) made it very clear in the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u90	Colleagues, I suggest we proceed to the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u91	I waited quietly till the end!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u92	Mr. Yordanov, you already had the word once anyway. Colleagues, we've already made statements here for over an hour. That's how it is under the Rules of Procedure. If anyone comes to the point from now on, I'll take the floor, colleagues. So you decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u93	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u94	Okay, here you go. I have warned you, I will take the floor for any procedure from now on, which contains a statement on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u95	The way you really are, and it's right at you, because I don't use the procedure to talk to the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u96	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u97	Mr. Chairman, you must be first among equals, right? And don't take any, how can I say, political statements to make out of that tribune where you are. That's not your function as chairman. I understand when someone from the Chamber, whether he from BSP, DB or there, comes out and says some things about a new majority, because these are political statements that work for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u98	What's the procedure, Mr. Yordanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u99	The procedure is that you allow yourself to talk about it. You have taken to talk here about new majorities, conveniently forgetting how your parliamentary group voted with GERB and DPS on various issues, including Macedonia, and is coordinating to do so. My request is that you stay out of these lines for new majorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u101	Because there's a lot of things going on right now. I just want to let you know that there is such a people at the moment are not in coalition with anyone and are opposition to everyone. [[Reply from the National Representative Venko Sabrutev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u102	Okay, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u103	And if you could just tell the guy with the glasses out front to stop calling while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u104	Mr. Yordanov, with a call for you with respect to your colleagues, please! Yesterday you received a punishment for that reason. [[Noise and lines.]] Each punishment contains not only the penalty itself, but a moment in which the person concerned can be retrained. Mr. Stefanov, and to you the same call procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u105	Yes, of course, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, Minister! The closing of the meeting, colleagues, is absolutely undeniable by virtue of art. 44, para. 1, t. 2 when documents classified under the Classified Information Protection Act are discussed. They have confirmed that such documents will be discussed and they are part of the hearing. However, why, colleagues, when you wanted to make a hearing with the Minister of Energy, yesterday as the first point in the Energy Commission was a hearing with the Minister of Energy, which you failed? [[Noise and lines. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u106	To me, Mr. Stefanov. The procedure to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u107	The procedure could not be to you because yesterday there were zero representatives of GERB, zero representatives of IHN, zero representatives of DPS and zero representatives of ARC.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u108	Okay, Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u109	Last I say that the closing of the meeting, colleagues from GERB, is actually in your interest. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u110	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Mr. Gazhev, come in. [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor.]] I thought you gave up, Mr. Tsonev, because you didn't raise your hand anymore. You're after Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, at times I am fascinated by what kind of pranksters you are from
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u112	The procedure to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u113	Firstly, I do not know that yesterday the meeting of the Energy Committee was closed so that the same issues could be discussed. Obviously, this number won't work. But I will take note of what you said that this National Assembly was conducting the most effective parliamentary control. Yeah, and I remember there was about an hour of parody here when there was parliamentary control, but there were no ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u114	What's the procedure, Mr. Gadget?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u115	Mr. Chairman, the other thing I would like to draw your attention to is the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. You said there were several reports received.. one from the DANS and two from the Ministry of Economy. It turns out that the company, which is responsible for the price negotiations, does not actually issue or cannot secure any documents, as there is no, first, secret business...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u116	What's the procedure, Mr. Gadget?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u117	The procedure, Mr. Chairman, I read to you the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, art. 28, para. 2, p. 3, what is Griff "Confidential": "Confidential" is placed in cases where unauthorised access would endanger the sovereignty, independence or territorial integrity of the Republic of Bulgaria or its foreign policy and international relations related to national security. "Explain to me how the price of gas, which should normally be public to everyone else, and that... [[Reply from Prime Minister Kiril Petkov.]] So international contracts are different.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u118	Mr. Gajev, you haven't even met the documents that are classified.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u119	That's why I ask: Are you, as someone who has distributed them, familiar with them accordingly, meeting the requirements of the just read article, or are they merely a trade secret? Because commercial secrecy is completely different from classified information. And here, by the way, the classification body is the Minister of Economy. Is there any confidential information in this question, or has he classified commercial secrecy as classified information that is a violation of the law? DANS is another job, DANS is another report that has no cashiership, unless the secretary of the DANS is the one that negotiated the price of gas, and it is not the one who signed the contracts for delivery.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u120	We get it, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u121	Then it means that we don't need the Ministry of Economy, but that SANS becomes a State Agency for National Security and Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u122	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I hope I misunderstand that you want me to check the paperwork. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the floor after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u124	I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u125	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! I insisted on taking the floor in the manner of conduct to help you, Mr. Chairman. These several dozen procedures in the manner of conduct, if you want to stop, it is enough to stop talking from where you are. Because they are procedures, at least 80 percent of them are caused by your explanations. I suggest that you, as a more experienced colleague, stop for a while what you are doing and concentrate on the main work, give the floor and move forward. Because when you say from this place: I suggest that you elect a president every week, but the new majority does not elect him.. This immediately triggers a procedure where you should be told that if you do not choose him, there is no new majority. It's very simple! Because if there were a new majority, the Members would understand what the Members familiar with parliamentary technology tell them, and it is that when you do not have a President of the National Assembly, you cannot impose an agenda and the topics that a certain majority or certain parliamentary groups want. Since you haven't understood that, there's no new majority that wants to impose an agenda. And that's what this chaos is about, because you don't have an old majority and the agenda goes like this. The procedure shall be followed or not followed. There is a quorum or no quorum. This is a consequence of the fact that the old majority has fallen apart and there is no new majority. And I say again, if there is, you would hear colleagues from IHN, AGE, GERB and we from DPS, that it is imperative that the choice of a new president so that this Parliament can complete its work normally and not waste its time in scandals, procedures, people watch and that it affects all of us and especially the institution. That's what you couldn't understand for three weeks that when you downloaded a chair, you immediately elected a new one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the first item on the agenda, namely: the hearing of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy. As I have already laid out earlier, on the grounds of art. 44, para. 1, t. 2, to the extent that documents which constitute classified information within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information will be discussed, and in accordance with para. Art. 4 of art. 44 of the Rules of Procedure will ask all cameras and microphones to be switched off and all outsiders to leave the room. Colleagues, take 10 minutes to leave your mobile devices outside the room. [[The next part of the sitting is closed.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u127	Honourable Members, please take your seats so that we can continue with the items on the agenda that are to come. I'm resuming the hearing. Mr. Gurov, you have the floor for procedure. Mr. Tsonev after that too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I would like to make a procedural proposal to extend the work of the National Assembly today until the conclusion of item 7 including from the agenda. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u129	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Tsonev. I guess it's about the agenda, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u130	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u132	In connection with the upcoming vote, I propose a name check, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, check the quorum through the computerised system. Please register. Hey, guys, aren't you gonna check in? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Because of committees? [[Reply from GERB SDS: "Yes! "]] It has become clear that there will be an extraordinary Energy Commission, hasn't it, today? Is it going to happen? [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. A line from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] Abort registration. I'm giving you 10 minutes off to try to get the quorum back together. Please show the result of the registration on the dashboard. Ten-minute break, guys. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u134	Honourable Members, please take your seats so that we can make another attempt to collect a quorum and possibly vote on Mr. Gurov's proposal. Please, registration mode. Abort registration. Please, Mr. Zashkev, if you'd like to register here with your colleagues. Is there such a possibility? Here you go, Mr. Zashkev. Please show the result in groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the 6th and 7th points of the weekly programme, in respect of which Mr. Ghurov proposed an extension of the time, so that the National Assembly could still rule on them, refer to point 6th of the Law on which a criminal procedure has been initiated against Bulgaria. That is, our country, if it does not accept this bill and these envisaged amendments, will be sanctioned against Bulgaria. The next item concerns reforms in the Higher Education Act. For these reforms, to the best of my knowledge, there is a broad consensus in the Commission that has been supported by all the parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, again today, some of the colleagues have decided not to fulfil their obligation to be in the Chamber, to express their views on the bills, i.e. whether they support them or reject them. Colleagues have decided that they do not want to work, which will consequently result in a lack of some reforms that all parliamentary groups allegedly support.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u135	Yesterday, 40 pointless reports, you didn't think about the penal procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-07.u136	Secondly, sanctions should be imposed on the country. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Colleagues, in view of the absence of a quorum, I am calling off today's plenary session. The next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held tomorrow, July 8, with the already adopted agenda. Thank you. Have a good day! [[PHONE RINGING]]
