ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u1	One hundred thirty-two MPs have registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, the agenda for today's sitting shall include the following points: 1. Choice of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The procedure of choice shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 16 March 2022. 2. Hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Teodora Genchovska on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning: - a statement by Josep Borrell, High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union, during the Council "External Works" in Luxembourg; - a statement by Annalena Berbok, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, concerning the statement of consent by the Republic of Bulgaria to start negotiations for accession to the European Union in the first half of 2022 of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. Importer is Desislava Atanasova on 12 April 2022. 3. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. I would remind you that regarding the hearing, we have not voted on whether to be held in a closed session, as is the request of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group. Moving on to point one: SELECTION OF THE MANAGGER OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK. The selection procedure shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 16 March 2022. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Affidavit? Here you are, Mr. Kostadinov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u2	Mr. Chairman, it all started a long time ago with a big lie by a foreign citizen who, although with dual citizenship, became Minister of Economy and then Prime Minister of Bulgaria. A lie that was exposed by the Constitutional Court of our Republic, shifted in time afterwards by many subsequent lies spoken by our Prime Minister. A little more than 100 days Bulgaria is governed by liars, and the people's wisdom with which you gather, such you become confirmed every day because the liar meets with liars.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u3	Mr. Kostadinov, I'm only asking you not to be so qualified!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u4	Okay. Thus, the museums, which have not yet received from the Ministry of Finance 12 million, have been lied to. BGN, so were the Chitalishtes, which were forgotten by the Ministry of Culture, so were the transport companies that would not receive the promised funds by the Prime Minister. The sailors from the town of Tsarevna and their relatives and all Bulgarian citizens, who were worried about the life and health of our compatriots, were blocked for a month and a half in Mariupol. If we do an overview of the last 100 days of our country's rule, we will realize that in the entire 32-year history of the transition, no more lies have been told, concentrated in such a short period of time as have happened in the last 100 days. Lies that are not harmless because they threaten not only the prosperity of our people but the lives of our people. The situation with the ship "Tsarevna" has shown us that the pathology of lying has already been embedded in our daily lives and in the TV screen, where mostly the rulers are present, so that they can lie to us more and more effectively. However, we do not find ourselves in the popular children's game a liar, but in a cruel reality in which we cannot entrust our lives and health to the Bulgarian government, because, apart from lying, it simply does not cope with the management of our state..............................the refugee wave, which they took care of and continue to care mainly for civil activists and volunteers. Currently there are several tens of thousands of foreign citizens in Bulgaria. More and more are the cases of aggression that are manifested by these refugees, who are beginning to insist that their flags be waved to Bulgarian institutions. And if this issue is resolved by the law, which says that only the Bulgarian flag can be waved to the Bulgarian institutions, and the flags of the foreign countries have their places only in the embassies and consulates of the foreign countries concerned, then the other one can not be solved purely human. In Bansko two days ago we had a situation in which a Ukrainian threatened Bulgarian citizens and clearly stated that he had come here to kill. This was subsequently interpreted as a statement under the influence of alcohol, only the other day two apparently sober women of Ukrainian origin, passing past Bulgarian protesters, showed aggression towards them. And yesterday companies in Varna have threatened employees of their own with the presence of Azovs in our country. In this regard, I would like to ask once again from this parliamentary tribune, both our Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior, the heads of the Bulgarian services: do you have any information on how many members of the regiment have entered Bulgaria or with this seemingly easy reference you will not manage and will use a lie. But let's stop talking about the lie. The lie, as is well known, the legs are short. It is time to talk about the truth, and the truth is that our country is in danger, led by an infirm, impulsive, severe and manageable completely impotent government. It is sinking into the deep swamp of the constitutional and political crisis, bequeathed from the previous government of GERB and the so-called patriots. This is why it is time for the following: resignation, new elections in which the Bulgarian people will appear as a referendum for their future. It's time for our revival. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u5	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Gochev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I want to say to you is that we must stand against hate speech and the list of crimes and the list of agents to be described by their ethnic sign is by all definitions the language of hate. Please make a comment to colleague Kostadin Kostadinov. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gochev. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have already raised the issue of putting an item on the agenda on Wednesday, and we are now demanding that you do it yourself as President, that we make a point with which to consider our proposal for the President of the Budget Committee. I'll explain it clearly for what purpose. Mr. Asen Vassilev and Mr. Kiril Petkov for several weeks claim that Mr. Karimanski does not have a good enough reputation to be governor of BNB. We didn't say anything about that. That is what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say. For us, if they have any doubts about Mr. Karimanski, I do not see how we are continuing to support Mr. Karimanski as Head of the Budget Commission, which is perhaps the most important committee in Parliament, even more in terms of that after a month and a half, Mr. Karimanski, possibly if he is not elected head of BNB today, and Mr. Asen Vassilev will have to make an update of the budget after everything they have said from. That is why we insist on seeing if you do not display some double standard and some thin bills and do not want to support Mr. Karimanski as the head of the BNB, not because you think he has a bad reputation, but because you have something else in mind. If you are sincere and consistent in integrity and in your sense of integrity, then you must immediately release Mr. Kariminski and as Chairman of the Budget Committee. I demand that you put this item on the agenda, and if you don't, we will conclude that you have no problem with Mr. Karimansky's reputation, and you have a problem with some unexplained accounts inside the coalition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. I'm not proposing to change the program for today. A declaration from a group of people please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u10	My fellow Members, on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria, I wanted to say a few words about what happened yesterday, because it seems to me that it is worth considering, considering and politically. Yesterday I am referring to the debate and ultimately the closure of specialized justice and the decision of the Sofia District Court, which was discussed in this context, and what is next. Yesterday we closed an institution that had become the emblem of political abuse of justice in Bulgaria. It was created to avoid the need for a real reform of regular justice, especially of the Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria. It was created, so to speak, to implement the program we catch them, they let them go, that is to stop the normal court in Bulgaria from letting those who were targeted by the then government for capture. It was created to be a parallel structure of normal justice in Bulgaria, which in one way or another to meet the expectations of a particular political situation. The liquidation of this structure for me was a very important step towards normalization not only of justice in Bulgaria, but also of political life in the country. Something that is now against the backdrop of the huge crises that the country is facing is so much more necessary and so much more important. Bulgaria is located and the world is in an absolutely unprecedented situation. The political generations that are represented in this House, I think you will all agree, and my more experienced colleagues, that it has never been so complicated, politically, geopolitically, economically. It's never been this complicated! The war that is being waged in Ukraine has been unprecedented since the end of World War II in its size and potential global scope. The economic crisis that follows the crisis, the military conflict in Ukraine, Russia's aggression, the Russian challenge against the established international order is all facing monstrous shocks and challenges. And it happens at a time when the Bulgarian political system absolutely does not have a language in which to produce an agreement. Because we're not just arguing about ideological differences, we're not arguing about idea differences, we're accusing each other of criminality, of criminal addictions, of conspiracy theories, and I've done it, I'm not pointing fingers at anyone else. But this divides Bulgarian political life in a way that makes it morally unacceptable to even seek consent on some important things, such as what we do, how we meet the challenges in Ukraine. Totally unthinkable makes it possible to search for some national consensus. Whether it is about the Ukrainian crisis, whether it is about our need to solve the problem with Macedonia, the very possibility of some conversation is being questioned because we have called each other criminals. And we call each other criminals, including because in Bulgaria we cannot agree that this is only the prerogative of the independent judiciary because we do not trust it because we cannot reform it. In fact, what we need to do, from my point of view, and I try absolutely frankly to place this topic on your attention, we really need to agree that we need to find agreement to reform justice in Bulgaria, so that we all agree that it can be ruled on suspicions of crimes committed, including political persons, with full confidence for its independence, respectively, the political system and here this Parliament does not need to pronounce sentences from this tribunal, right? But also that the political system should not be a refuge for people who hide behind the immunity of MPs or political leaders from justice. Because if we agree that justice should be able to rule, it should be able to pronounce and not turn these cases into political cases, right? These are both sides of an equation of the possible normalization of Bulgarian political life, so that we can say: yes, we have political differences in x, y, z ideas, concepts, but when it comes to national interest, we can give ourselves a hand and talk about some things. And yesterday, Mrs. Atanasova, quoting the decision of the Sofia District Court, said something very interesting: "I hope you said Mrs. Atanasova. "You will not close it, too. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Listen to me, you'll be able to react to me. I'm not gonna say anything provocative, nothing offensive. I say things that seem important to me. ...all cases must be settled in the conventional court, not in that, political court. Because actually the easiest thing was to try to catch it and turn it into the same political use, only with another sign. By closing that same day, we said: the independent Conventional Court will rule. Yes, this decision, this pronouncement is obviously not in favor of the government. However, I also say: "Long live the independent Bulgarian court! " - Behold, we have an independent court that can rule freely, not in the interest of the government. Isn't that right? With a very, very, very articulate solution. That's nice. We must draw our conclusions on how to create such procedures, such institutions, such conditions, that all this matter is dealt with by an independent court, and yesterday we took an important step in this direction. The next important steps are: to reform the CONPI, to change its leadership so that this institution can truly be trusted that it will be able to collect evidence of the investigation of corruption, including on the high levels of power, to pursue money from criminal activity in a way that does not conflict with fundamental standards of law. And the next step we need to take is to address the opposition here, I will still seek contact with you, let us try the platform that was created and in which you did not wish to join the Committee on Constitutional Changes, to find a way together to use it to work out a joint draft for constitutional amendments. Not ours or yours, but a common one, so that we can take the next step towards a normalization of Bulgarian political life. One last thing I would like to say is that yesterday's vote on the Special Court against the backdrop of all the divisions and tensions there are in the ruling coalition has shown that the meaning of this government is still important enough to unite us. I hope that, especially after a short break at Easter holidays, the emotions will give way, the mind will return and we will be able to continue working together because the alternative to the elections is absolutely unbearable for Bulgaria now, at this time. The risk of challenging elections to be won by Putin is something that no one can afford... [[Voices of ARGUMENT: "Eee! "]] Yeah, yeah, unfortunately. ...is something no one can afford to challenge. So, my fellow Members, I suggest that we proceed with justice reform, find a way to restart the Constitutional Reform Commission and normalize political life in the country with at least one idea. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the procedure, Mustafa Karadaye, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u12	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov said important things from this tribune that we need to find a way to reach agreement on important topics, to implement with content the concept of the reform and not in any way trying to devalue the meaning of the concept of the reform and many other important things that we need to think about. Mr. Chairman, when Mr. Ivanov mentioned that Mrs. Atanasova quoted one decision of a court for police arbitrariness and police in the country, you should have reminded Mr. Ivanov that there are dozens of other decisions and other courts for police arbitrariness and police, and Rashkovshina during the July and November elections in Bulgaria. [[Private applause from DPS.]] However, when we are going to make an objective picture, we must look at it in full and all those wicked phenomena that are happening today in society, to cross them and to seek maximum broad agreement in the National Assembly and then in the society to carry out the necessary reforms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye, for this procedure. For a statement on behalf of the group Desislava Atanasova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I address you personally because you provoked me to take this procedure. If I wanted to, Mr. Ivanov, make fun of your position, I would say that your speech was just in the styles of [[Noise and lines from BSP.]] Suddenly, having experienced some kind of catharsis or what I personally can't explain to myself yet, maybe later, you realized that political parties exist, that parliamentary groups in parliament form not only public confidence and public opinion, but they are neither mafia nor mafia nor status quo. They are here thanks to the vote of the Bulgarian voter. No matter that thanks to the machines of the last elections Bulgaria can boast of the lowest turnout, but the situation is this. You talked about seeking national consent. Personally, I think that the debate on possible conversations with anyone and on any subject, including the topic of the Constitution, which you have repeatedly tried to label to your "Yes, Bulgaria" goes, first [[speaking indistinctly]] Yes, through this parliamentary tribune, but with an apology, Mr. Ivanov, with an apology for a few things. First of all, a few months ago, you were persistently refusing to even talk to us. Remember? When GERB received the mandate when GERB invited you to talk, the reaction was: status quo, goons, Gypko-bibitkov and everything else, we will not talk to you. Well, the moment has come when you will realize that there is a parliamentary group in this House, broadcast by the vote of the Bulgarian voters, with which it is imperative that you speak. Because to change the Constitution is not just a slogan of just a political party participating in elections and exploiting this topic, as well as the topic of judicial reform. This topic is not just a trademark of your political coalition. This topic is state-owned and out-of-party. [[Conversation away from the microphones between the MPs Antoaneta Tsoneva and Radomir Cholakov.]] Next thing you know... Colleagues are pretty excited to the right. No need, colleagues, for such excitement. Those are the facts. That's the objective truth, and I'm just reminding you of it. For this objective truth to be heard...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u15	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u16	Mr. Chairman, calm down... Mrs. Tsoneva is very excited.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u17	Not just Mrs. Tsoneva. Mrs. Tsoneva is not having a discussion alone. I can see from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u18	...must have a calm debate. We must seek consensus, Mr. Ivanov. Yeah, you should. There was a consensus to be sought. And when there were other crises, and when in these crises we were dealing with it ourselves, we were handling it ourselves then, none of you for a year said: Bulgaria is in crisis and this GERB government must be helped or at least kept quiet in order not to oppose society more and more. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] And then, when you made a coalition, first it was the coalition of the protest, it was seen that nothing came out of it, now it is a coalition of change, you can see that nothing comes out of it, you suddenly realized that there were other parties in this parliament. We were here last year. And last year we repeatedly said that we were here at the will of the Bulgarian citizens. And when you insult our parliamentary group or the leader of our party, you insult our constituents. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Repentance and catharsis, Mr. Ivanov, and others who may be repentant in the upcoming Passion Week do not go through political hooligans. He doesn't go through with it. Yesterday, colleague Cholakov said: he went through an apology, we were wrong. Let's put everything back in the past and talk about Bulgaria. Unfortunately, I didn't hear that from the parliamentary tribune. I want to hear you deny everything you've been saying for years. How do you assess that a political party, whoever it is, is not just talking about our parliamentary group, is here thanks to the vote of Bulgarian citizens, those we are representing, too? And yes, you did, Mr. Ivanov, a retrospect of yesterday's events. What happened yesterday? In addition to the fact that you have implemented that old reform, which is not a reform for us, but the fruits will be harvested later as a state, and that is why you will be responsible all the rulers, and something else happened, Mr. Ivanov. Your majority has not been able to vote on any of three possible, unknowingly how they came up, decisions. That happened yesterday, too. There's something else going on today. Your majority cannot choose a Governor of BNB, but the coalition is stable. By the way, are you in a coalition, Mr. Ivanov, with BSP? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Something else is going to happen. It will turn out that the opposition will have a decisive vote in this choice, as there was a decisive vote in last night's decision, as there was a decisive vote in many other decisions, because it is aware of its responsibility. Do you know what will happen then, Mr. Ivanov? You're gonna have to get out of here and call for your resignation. Because you can't handle anything! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Professor Gechev, I now give you the floor to brief us on the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have just consulted the President of the National Assembly to save time and to base on the facts. On 12 April 2022, our colleague Andrey Gurov withdrew his candidacy, so, if you don't mind, in the protocol, I will only introduce you to the materials that concern the only candidate who has remained. Report of the Budget Committee on the hearing of the proposed candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. In this case, as I said, it's about a candidate. At an open session held on 31 March 2022 and broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank under Section IV of the adopted procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly ( SG No. 22 of 18 March 2022) , hereinafter referred to as "the Rules of Procedure'. Mr. Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski's candidacy, proposed by the parliamentary group of Lyubomir Karimanski has a Master's degree in Economics from the University of National and World Economy. He has a Master's degree in Business Administration from the International Business University Hult in London. He has numerous specializations in the field of finance and banking and senior management "Global leadership" in Bulgaria and abroad. Lyubomir Karimanski began his professional development in 1991 in the Bulgarian banking sector in the field of international monetary financial relations. He is one of the first experts to implement and validate cart payments in Bulgaria and establish direct relations with international card associations - VISA and Mastercard, for Bulgaria. Over the years, he has built a team that successfully implements innovative banking business models for the development of retail banking, payment infrastructure, as well as loyalty schemes for the use of banking products. For more than 10 years, Lubomir Karimanski has been involved in the management of several commercial banks and financial institutions as a member of the Management Board and executive director, in which he monitors the implementation of the European Banking Regulatory Framework with regard to operational and credit risk and capital requirements for banks. Over the years, he has been an active participant in the transposition of the Payment Services Directive into Bulgarian legislation, as well as in its revision at European level. The long experience gained in the banking sector in Bulgaria, including the International Banking Institute, builds upon it the authority of a highly respected professional in Europe, allowing it to hold independent positions in the management of SEPA payments in the European Payment Council in Brussels. In the last six years Mr. Karimanski has actively participated in the changes of European regulations relating to digital banking and innovative payments in the banking sector. His professional involvement in European banking structures continues with his election as a member of the Banking Stakeholder Group to the European Banking Authority in Paris. His active participation in it gives him a leadership position in the working group for payments, digital banking, financial and regulatory technology companies. Takes active part in the meetings of the Board of Supervisors of the European Banking Authority in relation to the development of the European Digital Financial Strategy and the transformation of the banking sector. Before being elected MP, Lyubomir Karimanski is a digital banking and payment advisor at the Association of Banks in Luxembourg, where he manages a project on the development of Luxembourg Banking Cluster and the European Digital Financial Strategy. In parallel with his professional development in the banking sector, Mr. Karimanski is a respected lecturer in the courses "Keys of Finance" and "Corporate Finance" at the University of National and World Economy. The excellent capabilities for communication and dialogue, as well as non-standard thinking and rational techniques in applying different models for the implementation of innovative solutions are undoubtedly proven in his work over the years, said Mr. Yordanov. In conclusion, Mr. Yordanov stressed that in view of the above, Lyubomir Karimanski has the necessary education, long-standing professional experience, moral qualities and public reputation to take up the position of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. He expressed confidence that as a highly qualified bank and financial specialist with more than 20 years of experience in the development of the financial and banking sector and successfully implemented leadership experience Karimanski will contribute to the further development of the Bulgarian National Bank. During the presentation of his concept Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski emphasized that it was developed as a continuation of the strategic priorities of the current management of the Bulgarian National Bank, which are built on several new ones. He outlined six priorities in his activities as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, namely: the dynamic development of economic analyses, research and forecasts related to inflation and economic growth, including joining the euro area; banking supervision and regulation; assessment of risks to the banking system; payment infrastructure and digital transformation; institutional modernisation and development of the Bulgarian National Bank. With regard to the first priority, the dynamic development of economic analyses, research, Mr. Karimanski outlined the challenges facing the country's economy: recovery from the state of emergency of the horse pandemic, high energy costs, supply restrictions, price pressure, war in Ukraine, as a result of which there is higher inflation and slow economic growth. In a situation of uncertainty, the European Central Bank has agreed to be guided in its actions by three basic principles of choice, gradualness and flexibility. And here, according to Mr. Karimanski, it is important to clarify how it will react to the different scenarios and ensure an effective response if these scenarios materialise. One of the objectives is through the methods of economic analysis, research and forecasts of the Bulgarian National Bank to monitor inflation, aiming in the medium term to be optimally close to that defined by the European Central Bank. With regard to the second priority of joining the euro area, Mr. Karimanski stressed that the National Plan for the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria should be updated in view of the current geopolitical and economic situation in the country. In addition, a professional discussion must be held on the introduction of the euro, the results of which should be oriented towards the general public, so that it can assess the benefits and challenges of adopting the euro. With regard to the third priority, the banking supervision and regulations. According to Mr Karimanski, banking supervision should carry out an assessment of the needs and distribution of appropriate additional supervisory resources, including the provision of instruments and the management of the risk assessment process. The supervisory priorities of BNB are entirely based on identification of risks in the banking sector. According to him, the current situation in the country is the timely identification of risks in the banking sector and the upgrade of sustainable models for the management of banks. As regards the fourth priority, an assessment of the risks to the banking system, Mr. Karimanski noted that he categorized the risks of internal risks to credit institutions and external risks to the banking system. According to him, credit risk will be the main challenge for both the banking sector and the supervisory authority in the coming years. As far as the fifth priority is concerned,.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He took the view that a Coordination Council should be established in the Bulgarian National Bank to build integrity and interoperability between financial and technological companies (fintech) and commercial banks. Finally, regarding the fifth priority of institutional modernisation and development of the Bulgarian National Bank, Mr. Karimanski pointed out that it is crucial to create a cyber-resistance plan, to expand the research capacity of the bank so that the individual research and scientific projects can be created. In conclusion, he pointed out that in his concept he sought to bring out the most important strategic priorities in the coming years, and will do everything possible to apply the approach of culture and talent in preserving the conservatism of the Bulgarian National Bank and its modernisation. During the hearing the MPs expressed their views and raised questions to the candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. In response to the questions put to him by the MPs, Mr. Lyubomir Karimanski pointed out that if he was elected governor of BNB, he would insist a detailed analysis of the benefits and challenges related to the adoption of the euro and this analysis would be made available to the general public. According to him, it is appropriate for the Central Bank to be a little more open to the population and business, as it is currently very closed and overconservative. As regards the return of the gold reserves from England to Bulgaria, Mr. Karimanski pointed out that he could not answer this question unambiguously, as it is very important to see before that what are the clauses in the contracts that Bulgaria has concluded and whether they contain quite serious penalties and other criminal clauses. In addition, it must be checked whether there are violations of these contracts, as the benefit of monetary gold is to be managed appropriately so as to bring revenue to the Central Bank. The results of this examination will be presented in a report to the National Assembly, as he said at present the relationship governer and parliament is very weak. Regarding the question of whether he would criticize the government, Mr. Karimanski pointed out that he would not allow himself to direct criticism of the government, as the Central Bank is an independent institution. What he would do is lay out the facts as they are about inflation and economic growth, allowing political parties and the public to benefit from these results. It does not advocate that the Central Bank is the one who should afford to criticize the government. According to him, the Central Bank is the one that can, through in-depth analysis, present the data to the public and alert the public if there is something that is extremely distorted the picture of the country's economic prosperity and of the deepening inflation. In response to the question whether there is a lag from the timetable for joining the euro, Mr. Karimanski noted that there is a lag in view of the draft plan for adoption of the euro on the website of BNB. Abandonment may also be due to the fact that there were two official governments that could not complete the activities. Bulgaria's accession is a political and economic project, according to him whether we will join on January 1, 2024, depends on the economic situation and whether we will meet all those accession criteria or they will be derogated. The forthcoming report on convergence of the European Central Bank is also important. At the moment in Europe, inflation is not the one that meets the Maastricht criteria. Even the Member States that are in the Eurozone do not meet these criteria. Mr. Karimanski expressed his support that Bulgaria is in the European Banking Union and that banking supervision is functioning in close cooperation with the European Central Bank. As regards the management of foreign reserves, he stated that the conservative spirit should be maintained in relation to them, with no information on how they have been managed in recent years. According to the reports, more than 92% of the currency reserves are in euro at the moment, which means that there is almost no yield from them. On the second round of questions, Mr. Karimanski's opinion is that it is extremely important that BNB continues to be a reliable fiscal agent of the government and continues to have a contract with the Ministry of Finance. The priority tasks in this direction must be the development of an organised and transparent market for government securities, as well as of Bulgarian debt securities to be admitted as acceptable collateral in future operations with the European Central Bank. Regarding his understanding of payment services and payment systems in the country and their further development in relation to Bulgaria's accession to the euro area, Mr. Karimanski stressed that the payment systems in Bulgaria are one of the most secure and stable at the moment. According to him, the only thing that needs to be upgraded is more flexibility and a more adequate response to one of the payment systems He advocated the thesis that he intends to develop payment systems in respect of SEPA schemes as well as in Bulgaria uses only the SEPA scheme, which is for credit transfer but does not use SEPA direct debit and SEPA immediate payments. With regard to the supervisory priorities of the European Central Bank for 2022, it outlined the most important ones, namely: the banks to emerge in good condition from the cod pandemic; overcoming structural weaknesses through effective planning and through an effective strategy for the introduction of digitalisation and dealing with emerging emergency extreme risks. According to T. 6 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Rumen Gechev assured the MPs that in most part the questions raised by the Bulgarian Fintech Association and by the media in the face of Mediapool.bg, Economic.bg and The two questions put to them on the list of questions of the said persons were answered in detail and comprehensively. The Committee on Budget and Finance agreed that the candidates meet the legal requirements for taking up the position of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates as well as the qualifications they acquired are positive prerequisites for the implementation of the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly, under the new conditions, to examine and vote on the proposed application of Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski as Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure for which he applies to this report Draft decision for the applicant.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. For two minutes presenting Mr. Karimanski's candidacy to an importer. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I must present Mr. Karimanski, but the truth is that there is absolutely no point in introducing him to you because, first of all, Mr. Gechev read his biography in sufficient detail. Secondly, in the eyes of the entire Bulgarian society in the last difficult year Mr. Karimanski was the main driving factor for the state to have two budgets in difficult times. Those who were in the previous two parliaments know in the toupica, which came because of unreasonable proposals in this Chamber, how Mr Karimanski was redoing almost the entire state budget so that we wouldn't do anything stupid here in the National Assembly, all of us with thoughtless proposals, and hasn't blinked a single second. I don't know if any of you can imagine what it means to re-establish the entire huge state budget within a few hours so that we the next day in the Chamber can adopt a budget?! In recognition of the Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev during work on the budget, because then Assen Vassilev was also Finance Minister - true in the office, Mr. Karimanski is the person thanks to whom these things happened, and we work extremely effectively with him. Mr. Karimansky has experience in banking, not just experience, it works. He didn't just work it, he was in Bulgarian and foreign banks. It's coming from, I forgot the exact quote, but from the Consortium of Luxembourg Banks. From there he came to Bulgaria from there to enter the Bulgarian Parliament. I can very easily compare some things from his biography with other biographies. I'm not going to do it. Here, rather, the issue that is before this House is mainly in front of colleagues from the coalition, because we are part of the coalition and it has not yet broken down.. I am talking about.There is such a people........................... and at the moment the coalition has presented a candidate for governor of the BNB. Here you have to ask yourself what your responsibility is, because the candidate is an indisputable professional; the candidate in front of your eyes has shown what he can do; the candidate is a proposal from one of the coalition parties; the candidate has been known for a long time and is legally elected by the House, which means that if you approach him lightly, he can be chosen, or not elected, and that will depend on the opposition votes, and not on the ruling votes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm done. After that, no one should be allowed to say which votes are chosen if you approach lightly at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u23	I open a discussion on the item on the agenda of the President of the Bulgarian National Bank. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After 27 days of procedures, a key vote is reached in the plenary room of the only candidate for Governor of BNB of the ruling coalition. I am saying the only one, because the other was acting........................... to the state............................................................... For us now, and I think that there are many questions for the whole public, which today, honourable Members, you owe an answer. The first question is in this regard, has it become clear who and why was pressing............................................ When will Mr. Rashkov and his Ministry of Interior discover who was that threatening Romanian citizen who sent a threatening text to Mr. Karimanski? How and why did Mr. Gurov make this leadership decision? With a threat, with a text, with a promise of a higher post? It's all questions. Next question: how do you value the morals, qualities, expertise and opportunities of someone who has been supported by you many times in two or three Parliaments as President of the Budget Committee? How, exactly? How exactly do you vote for Mr. Karimanski to be President of the Budget Committee, to deliver, in the words of Mr. Yordanov, two very heavy budgets, not to sleep, so that these budgets can enter the Chamber and be examined and to fix all your bags, because you have no idea how the state budget is made, and suddenly it does not cover your zero tolerance bar for corruption, because, again, I quote, there is evidence that he does not have enough moral qualities at his height, which are required as a governor of BNB. I was just talking about remorse and apology. At the very least, I expect you, an honourable ruling coalition, to apologize to two people in this room. One of them is Mr. Gurov. Apologize to him for allowing your colleague, the chairman of the largest parliamentary group in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly to be humiliated, first of all, because 20 days in the first procedure, you didn't think of his brilliant candidacy. You didn't think of it, and you didn't nominate him. Secondly, because for seven days you convinced the public during the second nomination and procedure that this was the most suitable candidate, brilliant, brilliant, with good education, although it was not determined to the last how and where it was acquired and with what Master's degree. The second person to whom you should apologize is Mr. Karimanski, the chairman of your Budget Committee, the majority manager, because you have allowed yourself all these 27 days to do the same. First 20 days you didn't nominate him in the first procedure. Secondly, in the seven days of the second procedure, you poured, in a direct sense, sloppy on his application. What now, honourable Members? Question three: this will be a supreme demonstration of how the coalition cannot make any decision. That you cannot decide on the daily issues that are before you, it is clear to everyone. That you can't find a solution to the crises, that's clear to everyone. That you are only using slogans for political propaganda and the results are zero, that is clear to everyone. However, it is becoming crystal clear, honourable colleagues, and something else about your coalition is about to fall apart. She's even in the face of self-destruction. You can't make a decision with regard to road money three times voted, you proved it yesterday. And last night at 1:00 a.m., discovered by the knowledge of the parliamentary regulations, the prime minister and the chief of his cabinet said that today they will again make the same decision without knowing the parliamentary procedure and the Rules of the National Assembly that this is impossible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u25	On the subject, Mrs. Atanasova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u26	On the subject. Now what can we expect, colleagues? What? A new solution to this crisis? An apology? Withdrawal of this nomination? What I most expect from you, Dear One, is that you will at least go out on this platform and say that all that you have said all 27 days and more on various occasions and on a variety of media, not only here in Parliament and in the parliamentary tribune, is one single thing. That's what you were doing. The money for roads against the post of Governor of BNB! Get out, say it, the public will understand you a complex coalition, without ideology, without a program, without the ability to manage, without the opportunity to make decisions. But say something, because the answers you have to give are necessary to society every day. And from now on, and long before that, you owe the answers 100 days ago. I expect the persons affected in my speech to also take the floor. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u27	Are there any lines, coworkers? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will not take up much of your time. I would like to express my support for Mr. Karimanski because, as Mr. Yordanov said, I was also in the Forty-Fiveth and in the Forty-Sixth National Assembly and I saw what work he did. I had the opportunity to get to know him better and to me he's an indisputable professional, and most importantly, to me he's a man with a head office because I've seen him in person and that's why I support him. I congratulate him for resisting, and I quote Mrs. Atanasova, indeed the poetry that has been poured out on him, and resisting it requires courage. I'm not gonna say anything wrong about the other candidate. I don't think it's right. I just wanted to say hello to Lyubomir Karimansky and wish him luck. That's it. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u29	Are there any lines to Kiril Simeonov? I won't. Mr. Tsoncho Ganev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u30	President of the Lord, today is an extremely important day when each of the political parties in this Parliament must have a clear, precise and firm position. Not to hide, not to leave the room, not to sit in the room and not to vote. We, from the first day we are in this Parliament, have clear and precise messages that we observe to our constituents, messages from which we have not retreated. We are currently in a procedure for choosing one of the most important positions in our country.. Manager of the Bulgarian National Bank, and here comes the big problem. For several years all political parties, including six parties in this Parliament, have been testifying to their Euro-Atlantic devotion, as the liberals of the "Democratic Bulgaria" announced, that this is the only valuable choice for Bulgaria to enter the euro area and introduce the euro in Bulgaria. Given that Bulgaria introduced the euro and entered the euro area, the position of governor of BNB becomes almost unnecessary. It will simply implement clear and precise decisions taken by the European Central Bank and all other countries in the euro area. We are very strongly opposed to the entry into the euro area and the introduction of the euro. However, at the moment we had two candidates of the ruling coalition, one with undisputed qualities and professionalism in the field of banking, which he is now the only one left, and the other with qualities that are in a completely different direction. One withdrawn, the other on the agenda to support it or not. What is defining in our choice for rebirth is from two main postulates: what is the attitude of the person who will take over the Bulgarian National Bank on entry and whether Bulgaria should enter the euro area at all and what is the attitude of the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank to the fact that two thirds of the Bulgarian gold reserve is held in a private bank in England, which is equivalent to anything else but government relations. It is a fact that many countries that became uncomfortable for the world's hegemons, at one point their gold reserves were blocked in foreign banks and were told that they would not have gold until they chose governments that please the United States, the World Bank, the European Bank, to any other institution. Given that at the moment both candidates who were recently and now there is only one have not expressed a clear and precise position whether they are for the return of the Bulgarian gold reserve in Bulgaria, we do not have a clear and accurate indicator in which both Mr. Gyurov, who withdrew his candidacy and Mr. Karimanski, who said he would check the contracts, will see what, how he sits, whether we will pay penalties, but was not stated clearly or otherwise that if he becomes governor, he will sign Bulgaria's gold back here because we live in extremely dynamic times, in which military actions have only a few hundred kilometers from Bulgaria. We live in times when from this tribune half an hour ago the person Hristo Ivanov said that Bulgaria in the elections will be governed by Putin. So the next governor of BNB should return the gold to Bulgaria. We didn't hear that at the hearings that were in the Finance Committee, and it's not normal for us to be reenacted. The other and basically, which is clear from all hearings, which have been declared by the parties, which have raised the two candidates, and now only one, unknown why the entry into the eurozone and the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria is not simply to replace one piece of paper with another piece of paper. This is a comprehensive policy and denial of sovereignty because, entering the euro area, the governor of BNB and all the leadership of BNB stops having independence, he stops weighing his word when determining any policy concerning the Bulgarian fiscal and monetary policy. This thing about us from rebirth is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that six of the seven parties in this Parliament clearly and categorically stand up and read declarations from this tribune that we should be in the euro area, we must introduce it and we must proceed to the Plan for the introduction of the euro from 1 January 2024. Clearly and precisely at the hearings in the Finance Commission, when I asked why the previous governor of BNB did not make his main obligation to enter the euro area.. There is no clear and accurate analysis by all specialists of BNB what are the benefits, the minuses, the risks to the Bulgarian state, before the Bulgarian economy, before the business with the entry into the euro area. This is an escape from responsibility and has been used by all GERB governments over the years to get us into the so-called eurozone waiting room because we still do not have such an analysis. We have repeatedly asked the Governor of BNB with official letters, and in particular twice we have been told there is no analysis. And from this tribune I ask: what are we going to do with entering the euro area when we do not have a clear and accurate analysis should we, or should we not enter the euro area? Because in one such analysis it could now be clear and precise and Mr. Karimanski could have drawn the path and say: BNB has decided, rather analyzed and said that all the negatives are much more than the pros in the euro area. Mr. Karimansky has only made a commitment that he will do and will commission an analysis if he is elected. For us, the political power that raises candidates is important, the policies that will defend themselves are important. In this case it is important that the political power that Mr. Karimanski raises is clearly and precisely pro-European and pro-Natatovska, anything but not pro-Bulgarian in terms of our fiscal and monetary independence. We cannot agree to support a candidate who is a political force that raises him, clearly and precisely will work for the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria. We do not have the opportunity to lie to our constituents, the people who have voted on us, given that we believe that Bulgaria cannot choose and rather the Bulgarian Parliament has no right to choose whether to introduce Bulgaria into the euro area, to introduce euros without consulting the Bulgarian people. It is high time the Bulgarian people were asked to be asked, or did not want to enter the euro area, and after the BNB did the necessary analysis. An analysis that is at the heart of everything, whether we go in or not. And when the Bulgarian people rule, the governor of BNB will come out here and say: this is the will of the Bulgarian people and I will respect its compliance. Until now, the Bulgarian people have not been asked whether they should enter the euro area or whether they should enter the European Union or whether they should enter NATO. We believe that for these basic things this is mandatory, absolutely mandatory. And very soon, when the configuration in parliament changes, to change legislation and these referendums become possible because they are currently impossible. That is why our position in the forthcoming vote will be clear and precise. We cannot understand the parties that will hide, will not vote, will not be here because they are lying to their voters. RECOGNITION fulfills its commitments to the people who have trusted us. We have made clear and precise commitments on the first day with regard to the euro area. The two candidates for governor of the BNB and now one who remained in the end did not say in any way that they personally had obstructions towards us being part of the euro area. That is why we cannot afford to support the current candidate. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ganev, you have neglected to say something very important, and this is that we have collected 221 thousand signatures of Bulgarian citizens who want to have a referendum on Bulgaria's entry into the euro area and the adoption of the euro. Something that you notice, all here swearing in democracy, starting from the neoliberals of.. Democratic Bulgaria and ending with the supposedly new repainted Democrats of BSP, categorically refused. In practice, we have a hidden, hidden and quiet attack on democracy. Why? Because all parties in the current Parliament, apart from rebirth, I strongly stress, do not wish to have a referendum, that is, they do not want democracy and the Bulgarian people to decide whether the euro should be adopted. Something that we think is right, because what democracy we are talking about when we have six parties that simply say that we should introduce the euro, even without giving enough motive without hearing a different opinion without having a public discussion and, as we all well know, it is simply enshrined in the programmes of the future governors of BNB and the so-called "no motives," that is unacceptable. We will fight for a referendum on whether Bulgaria should adopt the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u33	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a second line to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u34	Mr. President, we really missed the moment when, a few years ago, we collected over 220 thousand signatures to convene a referendum, not enough under current legislation. Entry into the euro area is one of the extremely difficult topics in our society. A topic that was not discussed for two years because of a type of crisis, because of a green certificate, because of everything else that we have been dealing with infertilely even in this Parliament for months, but a topic that is important, and it depends on the Bulgarian Parliament. We are currently discussing the application for Governor of BNB. A topic for which we have expected to have a clear and precise position from the manager, which will be chosen in this case. It is not normal to spend your whole life in the real business, but it is not normal when you have worked your whole life in the real business or were in the banking sector, seeing what it is about when you enter the euro area and what sovereignty it can be about to enter the euro area. This is precisely why we expected all the candidates - there were two, at the moment there is only one, but we expected there to be a clear and clear position. In any case, the Governor of BNB will not decide whether we should go in or not to enter the euro area, whether to end this madness, but it was clear to have a position that would show whether this person would stand up for the interests of Bulgaria no matter what political conjuncture situations at any time. In this case, we didn't see it. Yes, Mr. Karimansky's professional qualities are undisputed. For us, it has extremely great advantages in this regard, but we cannot accept the attitude towards the euro area and gold. The Bulgarian gold reserve cannot sit in a private English bank, it cannot! In these turbulent times, we can't keep hiding our head in the sand and saying we shouldn't get our gold back. No contracts are important, and in this case, whether we will pay penalties. Contracts are broken, penalties are paid and we take the gold back to Bulgaria, provided there is only a few hundred kilometers of war from our country. Therefore these positions and these messages are extremely important and there should be other candidates and it is inexplicable why the other candidate was withdrawn, I never understood why. Because if Mr. Karimanski had the courage to stand up with his name, the other candidate did not stand up, because now we had to debate his answers, which are even more mooded for the eurozone, which categorically refused to answer the question of gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Thomas Bikov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're all here not to express our desires, to draw some world of ours that we think is the best of all. We're here to take into account the facts. Today we have a fact that a procedure is being proposed for the election of a governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. An important position, the concept of the ruling majority was at the beginning to propose two political nominations. One of us is continuing the Change, the other of the One there is such a people. We originally thought that this wasn't the right concept. The correct concept was to propose a non-political figure for this non-political position and this figure, as it has become 2014, to receive a consensus majority and political support, of course, for leading the Bulgarian National Bank during some undoubtedly very complex times. That didn't happen. This is what happened. First, Mr. Karimanski was attacked sharply directly by political figures from And it was attacked on moral soil, on a level of reputation, on a level of integrity. Of course, any such attack is generally speculative. We know that from our experience. In this part of the room you can see a number of people who have been heavily attacked speculatively over the years. They were called criminals and all sorts of things, even worse insults than they were addressed to Mr. Karimansky. By the way, from the same circles and the same people who attacked Mr. Karimansky. As you can see, and my colleague before me, Mr. Ganev, and he, and we will not afford insults to any of the candidates, although one has already given up. We will not allow ourselves to offend anyone, but we will allow ourselves to look at today's procedure politically, from a political position, because it is proposed to us, that is the concept. The first thing I'm going to tell you is that even if Mr. Gurov had stayed as a candidate, we would under no circumstances have supported his candidacy. Not because we think Mr. Gurov is dishonest, incompetent and so on. Just because he's a proposal of.. We keep changing..................... We have a political position not to support the Change Continue and I think the arguments for this are quite clear. Just a month ago, our leader was arrested on behalf of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov. From then on, our dialogue with "Keep On Changing" is over. And when we are offered a political candidacy by "We continue the Change" and there is no more political candidacy than that of the chairman of the parliamentary group, there is no way we can support this application. Even yesterday, we were called criminals by representatives of this political power. While you're doing it, we just don't need to talk. The second option even journalists and colleagues from the ruling majority who are talking to us in the corridors are calling for is to ruin the procedure they organised. This also seems absurd to me you open a procedure, you raise candidates, then you start working this procedure to fail. And this is the second time because this is the second procedure. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u37	Mr. Svilensky, grab a line later. Don't do that. We're listening, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u38	I'm trying to explain the situation that you caused, not us. Now let's blow this procedure too, let's do a third. Now, colleagues, what have you done as people have done so far so that the third procedure can be made as people and that it is different from the first two? In the first procedure, you didn't raise a single candidate. On the second, you raised two candidates and entered into a sharp confrontation. By the way, you put into this scheme of bargaining and the roads that we watched yesterday until 24:00 and finally we couldn't make a decision. And here is another question, again politically: is our parliamentary group ready to provide the regulation of the entire financial flow of a person like Assen Vassilev? Our answer is a definite no. We can't do this! Mr. Asen Vassilev has mastered the Fund Fund. He is also Minister of Finance and Minister of EU Funds. All the cash flow in the country is going through it, obviously and it's haggling, by the way, for the 50 percent roads and setting the percentages, and now we have to give it the opportunity to monitor the transactions of the money that it provides. From this point of view, my personal opinion, although in other circumstances I would not support Mr. Karimanski, because he is part of the ruling majority and because his party is not, representatives of his party have allowed themselves to seriously insult our parliamentary group, including calling it a mafia structure, but only in order to keep the balance and not give Asen Vassilev the opportunity to master this structure, I would support Mr. Karimanski, Mr. Chenchev. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] You supported him as chairman of the Budget Committee, not us. If you have any doubts about Mr. Karimansky, get up and tell me here and don't tell me from the spot. Because you're silent and you don't take any part of your party.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u39	Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u40	No, because I'm being replicated from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u41	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u42	If you're going to attack me for telling you what our political logic is in a political situation caused by you, I don't think that's a cause for an attack. You're putting us in the position to stand by and watch us decide what to do about BNB. The normal thing to do was to decide it yourself and be responsible for it. If we leave everything in the hands of Mr. Asen Vassilev, I don't think we have any guarantees of anything happening in this country, except the honest eyes of Mr. Vassilev, who assure us that they are honorable. I have no other proof of Mr. Vasilev's integrity so far. I'm sorry it came to this procedure. It's a political fact. He needs to be accounted for. It must be reacted to, and we will react as we see fit. And no one is in a position of moral or political to tell us what to do and how to do it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines for Thomas Bikov? I won't. Kostadin Kostadinov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u44	Mr. President, a very important issue has been raised here several times, which I would like to address once again, and it is the question of the future of the Bulgarian lev, insofar as it is directly linked to the election of the Governor of BNB. BNB is one of the 12 oldest similar banking institutions in the world. Twelfths! At the same time, the Bulgarian lev is in the first 20 currencies in the world, both in stability and age, because with the liquidation of most of the old European currencies in Europe, with the adoption of the euro, the number of sovereign currencies that have existed for more than a century or a century and a half is not that large. Currently the Bulgarian lev uses absolutely all the pros of the euro without using its minuses because of the Currency Board. And in this situation he is in, he is one of the most stable currencies in the world. Once again, I want to say it, to be heard here from this tribune. However, we see how the other candidate for governor of the BNB does not question the membership of Bulgaria in the euro area, which we cannot support in any way. And we must remind, by the way, that historically the Bulgarian lev is one of the very few currencies in the world that have been of gold standard, and not once, but twice in its history. Let us recall that the Bulgarian currency was tied to gold until 1989. At present, the election as governor of the BNB is as political as well as financial, only here prevail the political arguments, as is seen because there is talk about what is the balance, there was talk about who will support who, whether someone will register in the Chamber to fall the quorum, and so on, and so on................................................................ We have a principled position, and it is clear and clear. We don't care about personalities. We're absconding from their personal qualities. I am confident that both one and the other candidate have the necessary qualities to be nominated and meet the conditions for this high position they want to take. But above all, we are interested in the policy that they must observe and conduct. From this point of view, we would support each one regardless of which political power it is from, because this requires the Bulgarian national interest if he believes that the financial independence of our country should be protected. Regardless of which party it is from, I repeat once again, I stress thickly. We could support both of them if they declared such positions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] However, we are not going to do this because we are not looking for political benefits, we are not looking for positions, we are not looking for money from our participation in the government, but we are looking for realization of the Bulgarian national interest, we are looking for protection of the Bulgarian residual independence, because the only thing we have left at the moment of our independence is fiscal. We don't have military, we don't have political, we don't have economic. If we lose BGN, if we lose our own currency, we lose everything and then, by the way, we lose the meaning of the existence of BNB.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u45	The weather, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u46	Yeah, thanks, I'm done. There will just be one person and the people around him on the Board of Directors who will receive some extremely high salaries. This institution will be emptied of content. This fat should be stressed, once again to be known. Not from you here, because I am sure that you all know it very well and understand it, another question is whether everyone is interested in it and that the Bulgarian citizens are aware. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. A line from Plamen Abrovski. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, great vocabulary, but nothing more. I cannot understand why we are binding the choice of a governor of BNB with the euro and BGN, provided that you know very well that the decision whether to join the euro area or not is a political decision that will be taken here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Are there any other lines to Kostadin Kostadinov? I won't. For the coat, Mr. Kostadinov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u50	Thank you for that line, Mr. Abrovsky. You give me an opportunity to recall something that is highly speculated, and this is what it is. Firstly, it is said that Bulgaria has already committed itself to adopting the euro by signing the Treaty on Membership in the European Union, which is not because there is no fixed date and because the Maastricht Treaty does not oblige us to do this. Secondly, yes, the issue is only political and only political because the euro is a political project in which one or a maximum of two countries in the European Union are earning, all others are at more or less loss. If they had to look at their own interests, the French would, for example, never accept the euro, but they accepted it because it was a political project. And since we're talking about political decisions, you're right, the decision should be made here. We talk all the time about the position of the manager to use the Bulgarian word governor, by the way, because a governor in the Bulgarian language does not exist. The manager of the BNB should be the person who is the highest defender of the Bulgarian financial independence. He is the one who must defend the Bulgarian lev, he is the one who should want his confirmation even. In view of the current extremely turbulent economic situation in the world, it could become one of the world economy's currencies, however incredible this thing may sound. Just because we are currently on a Currency Board that binds us to the euro, which allows us to use the pros of having the euro area without using any of the minuses. We find ourselves in a uniquely profitable situation by coincidence, of course, not because of the Bulgarian political elite. The other thing I want to say, because it has not been said, is that if the Currency Board is removed, at some point the Bulgarian government, whose mandate will become this thing, will acquire several tens of billion BGN, just like that, free to steal, sorry, for spending I was going to say. So from this point of view, the issue of the position of the Governor of BNB is extremely important, it is vital. It concerns the future of the Bulgarian people as a whole and there is no escape from this issue. A moment ago it was said by Tsoncho Ganev: there is no analysis done by BNB at the moment, about what the benefits are and what the damage of Bulgaria's possible membership in the euro area, which is mandatory. And last July, when Assen Vassilev was a finance minister still in the caretaker government, he signed a Plan for the introduction of the euro from 1 January 2024, which is currently being worked on, that is, we do not have an analysis of BNB, we do not know what the damage and benefits will be, but we are already working. We are no longer in the socialist planning economy and to carry out the five in four years. Moreover, I say again, no one obliges us to enter the euro area. This could be only and only a sovereign decision of the Bulgarian people, but only after a referendum...................................... only after a referendum......................................................... We have said this many times and we will stress it again: any decision which concerns not just the next few years of the mandate of the government or the National Assembly, but concerning the future of the next Bulgarian generations, must be subject to a referendum. That's what democratic states do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Alexander Nenkov is listed for speech. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Mitev, for a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been very fun to look at you in another situation of our parliamentary group, so to speak, to look at you siren yesterday and today, about how in every decision that is essential, you blaming yourselves, how you accuse yourself of dishonesty, but the truth is that it is not funny at all, it is not funny at all, but it is very sad. I don't want to dwell on the qualities of both candidates, it's none of my business, probably both of them have enough dignity, and I can't say bad for either of them. A bad sign is the way it all happens. It is connected, of course, with yesterday, because you turned parliament a little bit into a flea market, and the choice of a governor of the BNB turned out to be like choosing a person who will head the market for example. And that, in fact, colleagues, is perhaps at least in my short political history, I do not remember any other institution that was more conservative, and an institution that was never in the focus of public attention, except when a Corporate Commercial Bank went bankrupt. And it wasn't a coincidence that a number of governments had the same almost policy, it wasn't a coincidence that they kept BNB, and that's the way it should be. We can eat ourselves here, but the BNB must be a solid institution, single in no way politically. Now I'm going to tell you what's bothering me the most. In chess there is a term chungzwang. I don't know what will happen at the vote, but I want you to think about this. If we support today, the majority will support Mr. Karimanski's candidacy despite the wishes of his coalition partners, he will become governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, but he will be and his parliamentary group will be in a continuing conflict with the Minister of Finance. When we talk about joining the euro area, you understand that there is no way all this will happen if there is no good synchronization between the Bulgarian National Bank and between the government. Come on now imagine the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in conflict with the Minister of Finance and with a large part of its coalition partners and imagine how exactly we will enter the euro area? Well, we're not going in. However, if we do not support it and Mr. Karimanski remains President of the Budget Committee, the next major obstacle comes and this is the update of the state budget, where also Mr. Karimanski, naturally, offended by the fact that his coalition partners have not supported it, will actually have to make the budget that Asen Vassilev will prepare. And now do you understand where the huge problem for the state is? The saddest, colleagues, is that... even the other day the World Bank came out with its report, where it said that Bulgaria had broken up with the last 20 years of being held not during GERB, the last 20 years of fiscal discipline and moderation when it comes to public finances, and that Bulgaria has broken up with this kind of policy. That's what's sad. I want you to make it clear that I don't know what's going to happen, but more and more the state is starting to collapse. More and more the finances of the state are getting thin. And you know, there will come a sure and certain moment when you have all wanted power, but there will come a moment when there is no one to ask for it, because hard and woe to the next government that has to deal with all these crises that you remember, we have warned you that from a political crisis will come the moment when it will become financial, and this problem is really hanging out at the moment and you as a ruling majority, and I do not know if you are already a coalition, but you are parties that govern, if you do not understand the power of this responsibility that is hanging over your shoulders, and do not get into your hands, you do not really start talking, take important action, solve important issues good, bad, the time will appreciate them, but at least, where they are called out to look solid. Well, it doesn't look like it. Can colleagues, the roads and the lives of Bulgarian citizens depend on whether the BNB will be headed by the candidate of the BNB? Well, no, guys, it's not normal! With all my responsibility and well-meaning trying to pay attention to you a little bit of thinking, we are talking very modestly, without unnecessary such politicisation of the subject. The ball is in your hands, you decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Svilenski for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I am taking a reply procedure.. It is a difficult task for you and for you and Mrs. Bikoff and Mrs. Atanasova 20 minutes. 10 minutes declaration and 10 minutes statement. There's no way you can explain why you're going to support the candidate of the ruling coalition. This was clear from 27 days ago, Mrs. Atanasova, when the procedures began when the procedures entered this Chamber. We all remember what majority came in the first time, the second time, the third time. We all told the media, and each of us who gave interviews, let him get back what he said that the BNB candidate would be elected with your votes. Your prime minister, former and chairman of the party, by the way, denied it. You will now vote against his will, publicly claimed, and perhaps that night changed. I don't know. It's none of my business. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It is your job to vote, but the important thing you must do in my opinion, if you support Mr. Karimanski, my respects, Mr. Karimanski, and as an expert, a specialist, a politician, I have said my opinion and he knows it. If you support your parliamentary group, you need to come out and say from this tribune at the price of what you are doing, because because you are properly angry with your colleagues from the Exchanges who have insulted you, but no less we have offended you, perhaps we too, for which if I have offended someone, I apologize, no less have offended you and your colleagues from the Change. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Isn't that right? Gypko-bibbit is not my line. Now you will support the candidate of the parliamentary group who called you Jeep-bibitko. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You must explain this to your constituents, because you will not only ask for an apology from one political entity and support others. So, dear Mr. Nenkov, I fully sympathize with the role you have to perform and perform. It was played by Mr. Karimanski through a Budget Commission, through BNB, through the relations between a minister and a governor, between a minister and a Budget Commission. No, go out and say: we support Mr. Karimansky because: first, second, third, fifth. We agreed on the first, second, third, fifth, and you will be understood, otherwise we will continue to speak in this Chamber and in the State about any other arrangements outside the official ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u55	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u56	Get out there and deny them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u57	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivanov, for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, my line is for you. With regard to the term from the chess you used, I would supplement you with another term, it's a zitenot. They don't have time, they don't have time. Uncomfortable and unprecedented is the situation in which the current government is put. The bad news is that the current government and the Council of Ministers have also pushed this problem of governance to be resolved in plenary and because we see that it cannot be resolved by the government, the government very conveniently transferred this management problem, this management decision and this political responsibility to be taken, again of parliament and in the face of the opposition. Mr. Nenkov, it would be interesting to me if you didn't ask yourself the question: if your colleagues from the Change Continued were A team of Bulgaria, they might consider the other candidates for B, C, D teams and so on from the ruling coalition. Here you made a line and colleague Svilenski, who may also be interested in you, why their political party did not issue a candidacy, had twice the opportunity. Apparently it is about to fail the third time the procedure of choosing a governor of BNB. Unfortunately, this choice should not have been so political, at least in the hands of the opposition, as we are accused. Do they blame us for their own incompetence and misunderstanding, inability to make political decisions and responsibility? With respect to the two candidates who have been broadcast, but they are in one form or another, especially Mr. Gyurov for me was used by me. It's nice here to ask yourself questions and if you can answer me. I have asked myself this question: if two of the formations in the government broadcast two candidates, they are obviously A and on the team of management, why, Mr. Svilensky, as chairman of the group, the BSP did not broadcast a candidate? Why can colleagues from the rightst part of the hall and Mr. Hristo Ivanov also ask: why did they not broadcast their candidates? Don't they have any footage prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line, colleagues, is there? No. A hole, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Svilenski, yes, you have not understood anything from my speech, unfortunately. Now you're talking about sympathy, I don't know if you'll have any sympathy for this market that you've turned Parliament on, but I think I rather sympathize with the Bulgarian citizens because, Mr. Svilenski, you'll be less and less of the words in your mouth and the arguments you'll be going out with and defending your political inability to take any decision. That's, unfortunately, a fact. You said very nice words about Mr. Karimansky, then you said, at what cost? What does it mean at what cost? Mr. Svilensky, how much do you pay for Mr. Vasilev's mind? What's your price? We're opposition, we can't offer anything. At what price did you sell yourself? That's what I want you to tell me. If you really like Mr. Karimansky so much and have no argument about his qualities, support him! Why do you let the opposition decide that? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's sad that the opposition should actually... [[Noise and lines.]] And here the media has been asking us for a few weeks what we're gonna do. But our job is not what we do, you should be asked what you do. This is how people have arranged for us, and we are doing our jobs as we have been incorporated into the Constitution and into the democratic world in which we live and nothing more. Don't take responsibility from us! We've been carrying it around nice, bad, people appreciate it, but now it's you! When will you find out? You know, colleagues, you're running out of time, and very quickly, even more quickly than we'd like to. Either realize it, or just really resign and make it come to some sensible government, with people who can talk to each other who can make management decisions, and the state can come out of the crises that it's come into. Do this if you have at least a small drop of dignity and think little about this country and not about your own political interest! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u61	For speech Iskren Mitev. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Yordanov, Iskren Mitev is recorded before you. [[Replications from the National Representative Tosko Yordanov and the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova.]] I don't think there's any reason for a personal explanation, Mr. Yordanov, and neither do you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor to speak. Mr. Yordanov, you can also take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Mitev. [[Replications from the National Representative Tosko Yordanov and the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u62	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u63	I've given Mr. Mitev my word, then I'll give you...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u64	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u65	I've already given the floor to Mr. Mitev, Mr. Yordanov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Yordanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u66	You can't judge whether I'm entitled to a personal explanation or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u67	Yes, it is. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Iskren Mitev.]] All right, here you go, Mr. Yordanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u68	It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u69	We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u70	Get it read these rules finally, people. You're lawyers, you're embarrassing yourself. You can't judge whether I'm entitled to a personal explanation or not, as long as it's about me. You're not a judge in this case. You are now the first among equals, in this case you are the second more equal than equal. You can't read these rules, and you can't, when someone asks for a procedure, not give them and have your colleague act as a male as opposed to you. [[Voices by "Keep On Changing": "Eee!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u71	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u72	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u73	Mrs. Atanasova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u74	How can you give to one person and not give to another?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u75	I didn't give him a personal explanation, Mr. Angelov, it was for procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I said about procedure, and what was written on the dashboard, I don't answer technically, Mr. Angelov. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u76	Who's in charge? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u77	It was a procedure. For a personal explanation, Mrs. Atanasova, I don't think you have grounds. For procedure, please come in. Mr. Mitev, I'm sorry. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In our rules, Mr. Chairman, there is a Article. 54 to make your search easier...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u79	I know him very well, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u80	You don't know him, and you've been demonstrating this for too long, Mr. Chairman. You don't know our rules, and that's what you've been demonstrating for too long. I asked for the word for a personal explanation because according to art. 54 The public representative shall have the right to do so within two minutes if, in a speech in plenary, he is personally and individually affected. I felt affected personally and by name because Mr. Svilenski addressed me: Mrs. Atanasova, at what price do you sell the votes of your parliamentary group despite the will of your prime minister and party leader for the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u81	The procedure for me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u82	Yes, to you. First of all, the personal explanation procedure I asked for, and you didn't allow it without any motive, Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm now doing procedure in the manner of conduct. Secondly, for trading and for supporting prices or not supporting one solution or another, you cannot speak to me, Mr. Svilensky...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u83	Mrs. Atanasova, to me, please, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u84	...and your entire parliamentary group, which has repeatedly demonstrated what a price means.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u85	I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u86	I'm not taking you back...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u87	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u88	...when it was claimed that the government was falling if no decision was voted. So, be quiet, apologize, as you did during your speech, I am giving you this opportunity, and we will continue the debate on the substance. And to you, Mr. Chairman, happy Friday. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Study your rules! [[Applause from GERB-SDS. A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u89	Wait a minute, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Svilensky, I didn't give you the floor. Wait a moment. Mrs. Atanasova, I know the Rules very well, probably better than you. [[(Voices by GERB-SDS:]] Mr. Svilensky addressed you, but the statement didn't concern you personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u90	Who did?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u91	As a representative of the Political Party GERB and the parliamentary group of GERB, but not personally to you, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] On the basis of art. 155 This text I am looking for, Mrs. Atanasova, 155, Mr. Angelov I am imposing a penalty against Mr. Angelov for perhaps daily disrespect to the leading meeting of the National Assembly. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Commendations: "Eee!" (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) (We are continuing the Change)]] Mr. Angelov, I have repeatedly called on you not to shout like this: "Well, what do you do, how do you do it................ and so on." I ask that you refrain from such comments in the future. There are really multiple cases, multiple cases. Mr. Svilenski for procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u92	Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Atanasova...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u93	To me, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u94	This is the second time Mrs. Atanasova of this tribune has not listened to what I say and speculate. Take the words I told you you sold your voice out of the transcript. Do not speculate all day and last week at the same time again on Friday. So listen to what I'm saying, maybe you could use it. From here on out, think about it, and then give me a line, and a way to lead. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u95	Colleagues, let's keep a good voice and move on. Is it true Mitev is speaking? Here you go, Mr. Mitev. I remind you that in two minutes it is 11:00 and parliamentary control begins. It's our rule. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a procedure by Mr. Balabanov, first. [[(Loud noise. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You rightly said that in two minutes' time, under our rules, parliamentary control is imminent, so we propose, on behalf of our parliamentary group, that we extend the time until point one is exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u97	Just a second, Mr. Balabanov, until the end of this item, the vote and then have three hours of control, i.e. extend the meeting accordingly to maintain the three hours of control. Okay, I get it. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] In this version it will not take place the way Mr. Balabanov pointed it out. For correction, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u98	To hold a second item on the agenda with the inclusion of Minister Gencovska, then to enter parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u99	Have three hours of control and extend the meeting accordingly. I understand your procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] We didn't vote on it. No, no. We just voted to get it on the agenda. Is there a reverse opinion on this proposal? Honourable Members, we are going to vote on Stanislav Balabanov's procedural proposal to be exhausted. 1 et c. 2 on the agenda, after which we will have three hours of parliamentary control and the duration of today's meeting to be increased accordingly. Voting mode. They voted 207 MPs: 127, against 1, abstention 79. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. They voted 231 MPs: 150, against 1, abstention 80. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm recording you, but Honest Mitev... Ah, there's a procedure first. I apologize, Mr. Mitev, but there is a procedure before you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, my respects to you! You always show the necessary tolerance to the opposition, but that is not what your Vice-President is doing. I'm becoming a medical expert, and I know that we were working very late last night, and clearly insomnia reflects on normal mental tensions. In this regard, I would like to help your Vice-President colleague by giving you some tablets to give him... [[The National Representative Kostadin Angelov left a box of tablets for the Presidential Bank.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u101	No, no. Professor...! [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u102	...so he can calmly lead the meetings, not try to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u103	Professor...!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u104	...to silence the opposition's voice. And with regard to my remark, I will apply all the procedures prescribed in the Rules of Procedure to appeal to it in the normal manner. Thank you. Please calm down your deputy! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u105	Professor, appeal, of course, but still in the conduct of such procedures, retain respect for all MPs. Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Busy by humiliating each other here and obviously doing the circuses of what, unfortunately, society expects of us, we forget the most important thing, that we are people in the first place, and when we are wrong, it is dignified and human to apologize. I will not apologize for empty allegations and hollow insults, but I would like to apologize, because all of us here, conquered by the whirlwind of our roles, positions and political accessories, forget the most important of all the positions and institutions that we are voting on today are people. I wish that we could manage to keep our dignity and human self in our positions, our positions and the institutions we defend. Thank you. [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to Iskren Mitev? I won't. Tosko Yordanov for speech. I'm sorry, Mr. Atanasov, I didn't see you were... After that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, and I couldn't get a personal explanation, so I'm gonna make a statement and mix up the personal explanation in this whole thing. Mr. Svilensky, I remain behind every single word I have said here in both the previous and the previous parliament and now. But hints... Let me start somewhere else. We're in a very interesting situation right now. All of us here from the ruling coalition have come into this situation alone and none of the opposition is our fault. Nobody! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And that's why when we're in this interesting situation, it's good to watch our mouths. At the moment, from our parliamentary group, from the parliamentary group we are continuing the Change.The Democratic Bulgaria is measuring their fairy tales, they are paying attention to what they say, because after that day we will have to continue to be a ruling coalition. The only person who allowed himself to speak, at the risk of being fined, was a representative from the BSP who spoke here before and couldn't return it. Insinuations of a deal between "There is such a people" and parties from the opposition are low, disgraceful, false, disgusting and do not bring any dignity to the person who says them. I'll give you back your question. On what grounds as part of the ruling coalition will you not support a candidate of one of the ruling coalition parties named Karimanski? Head of the Budget Committee, a man who knows how to work. And my other question is: are you in your parliamentary group ever allowed to vote on conscience because we all know what kind of personal conversations we've had in the hallway? What you really feel and what you might do. So, if you please, at least inter-coalitionally, let's be careful what we say and not force me to go out and say things that knowing my big mouth is not only gonna get me fined, but it could get worse. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any lines to Tosko Yordanov? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u110	Mr. Yordanov, the motive not to support the candidacy is the coalition agreement. There it is clearly written that when such decisions are made, the coalition must have a single candidacy. Such a candidacy is not supported by three of the parties, that is, there is no way to support it and that is clear and I said it. I didn't make any suggestions specifically to you. I was simply quoting what you said from this platform and asked colleagues from GERB whether they agree with what you have said and whether they are equally angry with you and the Change? That's what I asked. I didn't make any suggestions or anything. I reminded you how this item got on the agenda, how it got on the agenda. That's what I did, and I don't think I lied to anything, so don't be mad at me. I haven't overstepped a good tone, nor do I want to spoil a good relationship, but I have said things that have happened here in front of all these cameras and all these MPs. And I have asked a single question: why will GERB support the candidate of the ruling coalition because I did not hear motives? All I heard was that the bank manager couldn't work with the finance minister or that the finance minister couldn't work with the chairman of the Budget Commission. But that's not an argument. I haven't talked about the qualities of Mr. Karimansky or the candidacy. You know, we've listened to him, we've had a meeting of the parliamentary group, we have our position, it's clearly stated, it hasn't changed for at least 20 days now, and I don't know why you have these bad feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line to Tosko Yordanov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u112	Mr. Svilensky, you are the emblematic representative of the former Communist, current Socialist Party. Why? First of all, you don't remember what you said 10 minutes ago. That's where you were insinuating, and they're gonna take down the transcript and I'm gonna give it to you. Secondly, the attitude towards the truth is good to be equal. In the coalition agreement there is no signed agreement for joint applications. There is an effort to have common applications. But unlike other things that are specific, there is no such thing signed in the coalition agreement. And here you choose the term that every person gets in their head when someone says something that isn't true, what it's called. That is why I will again address the coalition partners, including you, because they weigh a lot today. If you want, we can fight in private, but not in front of the hall to do this circus and put ourselves even more in this situation. We will see how the opposition will vote and no matter how we vote, none of us can tell her a button because we have come to this deuce.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Ivo Atanasov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech would have been different if you had followed the order of the recordings. Now, after these words of Toshko Yordanov, I will also have to measure my words, which I wanted to say, and turn to the MPs. I don't want to praise Mr. Karimansky. His qualities, his expertise and professionalism and his human qualities are clear to all. I would like to call on, whether by the ruling coalition, the so-called coalition partners whose strokes we feel every day to vote for professionalism and for Mr. Karimanski's expertise. We're humble enough, but we won't be stupid anymore. I would like to address the National Assembly in relation to the rules of both the opposition and the government, the rules that we adopt to choose a post or positions in the relevant regulatory bodies or other institutions. I remember hearing candidates in the Budget Committee. I then asked the question: are the claims of the candidates in the CVs presented only one statement, or are they supported by evidence? Mr. Karimanski's CV is clear to me and the attached evidence, but as he does, all candidates for a post must do. One is the allegations, I have nothing personal against Mr. Gyurov, his power is the teaching activity, there is a proven specialist, including he taught my son, but we cannot count on it, and then Professor Gechev agreed with me We need to review the evidence, to request recommendations from the institutions in which the applicant has worked, so that we can make our conclusion and assessment first of eligibility according to the requirements of the Law on the occupation of a post. Your answer, for example by Professor Gechev, in relation to Mr. Gurov's candidacy was such is the Rules and the Law. We need to think this through. I can claim anything that I'm invited by an Austrian bank, by an American bank, the CV to do it to myself 10 pages, but these are some of my claims. This is not proof that I have the necessary legal internship required for the job. It's a matter of rules and rules. I want to address everyone one more time. Don't pour shit on the candidates for certain posts. The shit reminded me of what happened in the summer, and it also reminded me of why no government was formed. I would like to draw more attention to the fact that we should not allow Bulgaria to become a prime minister republic and there should be no interference of the executive power in the legislative power. I was offended to hear speeches, not from party chairmen, but from a prime minister and a deputy prime minister against Mr. Karimanski. He was praised for the budget by the finance minister and then he was flooded with some ugly words. I'm gonna stop this now. And I mean, about the line, do you think there's a price to pay? I'm trying to figure out how to say this, so I think I'm trying not to hurt anyone, not to beat the coalition, and so on. Yeah, in the arrangements between these parties, the three in the coalition, obviously everything has a price. Whether there are posts or any other price, I can't tell you, but you will make sure according to the procedures that will be developed in the coming weeks for candidates for independent bodies. Then we'll make sure there's a price or no price. Thank you again. I urge you to vote for Mr. Karimansky's professionalism.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Replices to Ivo Atanasov? From Professor Mihailov. A line or a statement? Line, okay. Radomir Cholakov for speech was then recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's hard for me, colleagues, to take a direct view of the matter. I am not a specialist in the field of banking, but as a parliamentarians I will agree with my colleague Professor Angelov that indeed after yesterday's serious debates until midnight today the time of each of us is very difficult to go through such a difficult discussion. I want to protect everyone from unreasonable decisions, I want to say something that I like now, because I've been in this room for five years now. Very often here I hear from people who I respect deeply as parliamentarians that you see, there are contradictions in the coalition, there are things that do not coincide as common views. It's like intelligent people to discuss with each other, sometimes disagree with each other, but to find their way forward. I don't remember what kind of roller the parliamentary life was going for the last year four years, when without any discussion, with silence on the part of those who managed, with waiting to run out of minutes, were taking which of the more clumsy decisions that led to the division of the nation, because now I have been talking here. I see the stare in me of Mr. Cholakov, whom I deeply respect, and his words how many times he has called for humility. This government, I mean, its handicaps have led to the situation we are in right now and we are trying hard to get out. And today's argument will help us get out. I want to address those who are trying to say that we cannot make any decision, that the only way out is to apologize and withdraw. I remember your words and statements at the beginning of winter that comes all kinds of winter, that there will be hungry riots, that whatever will happen. Winter is over, the consequences for Bulgaria are serious, but in relation to a very difficult international situation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for reminding me, Mr. Chairman. And those who led the government this winter managed to bring the nation through a very difficult period. If you don't realize that it was a very difficult period, I'm sorry, it was really very difficult. And now we're going to find a way out with a good tone. As one colleague here once said, I remember from a people like this, not with a bruise on their partner's mistakes, but with respect to his opinion. I believe that there is a solution in every Parliament when there is an understanding between the people who stand in it, regardless of what positions they are in. I wish it to all of you, and I think the discussion has passed the barrage time. We should be going to the polls by now. All positions have been cleared up. We shouldn't throw any more opinions, our knowledge of chess, in different areas of life. We don't need that. Let's vote! Let's get the solution. In any case, it will be useful for Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u117	Thank you. However, whether there is a second line to Ivo Atanasov, as this was a line from Professor Atanasov. Mikhailov? No second line? Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Atanasov? Okay. Radomir Cholakov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Professor. Mihailov for the good word and I intend to continue in the same tone and in the same spirit. Today, colleagues, it will be a good day for Bulgarian democracy. Because for the first time in the majority we've heard words, excuse me, it was to each other, to the parties of the majority, still timid to us, but we'll live to see it too. We heard that you should be careful with words, because words are heavy, which is also good. And now I want to open up a third topic that we have in mind in the future, another thing that we have to stop doing, and that is talking about deals and buying and selling. Colleagues, I've opened up the historical references now, and I've established, you know what? Maybe you know it! The Tarnovo Constitution was adopted on 16 April 1879, this is tomorrow, tomorrow the Bulgarian State was established. The Statute of the Bulgarian National Bank was adopted on 25 January 1879, and its first governor was appointed on 4 April before the establishment of the Bulgarian State. Before the Bulgarian State was established, the Bulgarian National Bank was established. As Mr. Lyuben Dilov said earlier, the Bulgarian National Bank is like a coat of arms, it is a symbol, it is a sign of this country. The Bulgarian National Bank is the wearing violet. For a reason, again, it was created before the Bulgarian state was created. And I would like to say, colleagues, firstly, that the majority parties must stop making deals, stop trading. As Mrs. Atanasova said yesterday, we don't do retail trade here, we do state management and we have to keep an account of the symbols and the violets of this country. So the majority parties are good to stop trading and it is good to stop talking about trading. I think that in the coming weeks, months, and years at all that await us in life, regardless of our parliamentary representation, is to understand what is not being sold. Because until we figure out what's not for sale, there'll be no peace and there'll be no peace. The Bulgarian National Bank is one of the things that is not sold! Remember that thing! Not as a post, not as a structure, not as functions, not as nothing. I ask you to keep that in mind, and as we experience catharsis and stop doing things or you promise yourself that you stop doing them and we stop doing them, let's stop doing deals with statehood. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines to Mr. Cholakov? I won't. Victoria Vasileva for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was looking forward to reaching the procedure for selecting the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. I was looking forward to it, not for anything else, but because I expected this to become a celebration of parliamentaryism that would be at the height of this institution where we elect a leader. At least! On the other hand, we have turned the election of governor of the Bulgarian National Bank into an ordinary political orgy. It's probably a heavy and strong word, but I can't think of a better one. In the last two weeks, perhaps I have not been left with the analogy of what is happening to the legend of Pandora's box. The dear Pandora, who, out of curiosity, opened the box to see what were the gifts left there by the gods, and unfortunately for the whole world, all the evils came out of it. In a hurry to close the box of evils inside, there's still something left, and that thing that's left inside is hope. But let's remember why she stayed in Pandora's box. Not just because she was the last, but because her creator Zeus wanted her to. He asked people to suffer to stop believing in gods. Therefore, honourable Members, stop believing in false gods, even if they are your leaders. They're just people, they're not gods. Start believing your own conscience, your own self, because if, in time, you find out the truth about what is happening, the shame will be for you, it will not be for your leaders. Let us really stop the lies, insults, slanders, because we will enter into the hypothesis of that beautiful Bulgarian folk tale that the wound heals, but the bad word is not forgotten. Dear colleagues, I call on you really: forget all that has spoken to you, we have not heard a bad word here against professional Lyubomir Karimanski, trust our judgment that we have nominated him as a man we believe will really do the job at the Bulgarian National Bank, support him and I am sure that one day you will not be ashamed of your decision. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Is there a line to Victoria Vassileva? I won't. Procedure: Vladimir Tabutov, I am recording for speech Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u123	Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess until 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u124	I'm resuming the hearing. I give the floor to Kiril Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make a brief statement, as our time is limited, and to continue with the noble and humble tone with which my colleague Mr. Cholakov made his speech. Let it not sound immodest, but I think I am the person in this room who for many years has had direct contacts with the Bulgarian National Bank, with its governor, governors and managements, which are run by the manager of the Bulgarian National Bank. The role of the Bulgarian National Bank, its governor and its management is extremely important, and as Mr. Cholakov said, it is really an emblem and symbol of statehood. You know that the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank manages, controls together with its sub-governments the three very important governments in the Bulgarian National Bank. These are Ession Management, Bank and Bank Supervision. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u126	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u127	The Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank should really have a high level of professionalism, experience and expertise in banking, as you know very well that the Bulgarian National Bank is a pillar of monetary policy and stability of the Bulgarian lev. Therefore, the person we will elect as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank must meet not only these minimum requirements, I would say, but must also have very good contacts with a number of European financial institutions. The Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, especially in the conditions in which we are currently in the current state of the ERM II, or the so-called zone waiting room, must have very good contacts with the European Central Bank, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and a number of other international financial institutions. This is a guarantee that our monetary policy will be understood and accepted by these important international institutions. I think what today's Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank has done is very important because his work has been appreciated twice in a row two years, he has been declared a banker of the year worldwide. All this I am saying to bring together the professional qualities, the necessary contacts so that Bulgaria can move forward especially at this moment, as I said, in which we are in the waiting room of the euro area and we have the implementation of the plan for entering the euro area. I would like to address Mr. Kostadinov and tell him that the commitment we have made to enter the euro area is with the very signing of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. The fact that we are already in the Eurozone waiting room in ERM II shows that there is a political consensus regarding our entry into the euro area itself. When this decision was taken, a broad discussion was held. On the basis of this discussion, our plan for introducing the euro in our country was also established. I wish him I will not make a characteristic of the candidate, which we may now vote on, I am convinced that he really is a professional and has his skills, but let him contribute with his work as much as today's governor has done for the stability of the Bulgarian lev and monetary policy of the Bulgarian state! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines to Kiril Ananiev? I won't. Yordan Tsonev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! This debate is a continuation of almost half a year of debate on the subject and with a very great professional interest not only as a politician, but also as an economist, as a financier, as a person who participated in the board's adoption at that distant time, the text has been tabled by me here as President of the Budget Committee. If these inaccuracies come from young colleagues, somehow I could understand them, but inaccuracies come from the whole room. First, let's start by order of these. The first thesis in the ruling coalition in order not to unite around Mr. Karimansky's choice is that he does not have enough professional knowledge or enough authority or any other things that concern his reputation. This is not true for a single reason.. in two Parliaments part of the majority elected him President of the Budget Committee. The current and former finance minister trusted him. I know what it's like for a finance minister, the chairman of the Budget Committee. This man is more important to him than the deputy ministers, than his team, than anything else without the chairman of the Budget Committee, the finance minister is doomed to failure. Finance Minister Asen Vassilev has full confidence in Mr. Karimanski this is what the facts show, as President of the Budget Committee, and he was elected one with quite serious competition in the ruling coalition. This thesis is not true, and with this thesis you deceive society and stains Mr. Karimansky. Then I'll go back to why the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister do it. I'll be back later. The second thesis that the manager of BNB is so important that we should almost entrust the post to someone who is an absolute professional. He must come from abroad, he must have great authority, knowledge and experience. That's not true, colleagues! Article 18 of the BNB Act, which defines the powers of the manager, gives him a very modest role to be the administrative head of staff in the Bank, to lead the Governing Council. If you wish, I can read it to you:..................................................................................................... Did you know that all activities that concern the sovereigns have absolute autonomy and operational autonomy in their decisions?! Nothing depends on the manager of BNB, but depends on them. The management of the Bank's supervision is led by the respective sub-government and is self-serving in its actions, and the same applies to the other two sub-governments. And this thesis is not true! I'll be back in a little while, then why do you care so much about the choice of this regulator? Now I'd like to address my colleagues from rebirth. We are political opponents, however, I am extremely understanding and respectful of your position. Because if there is a political consensus there has been, and now there has not been, for the introduction of the euro, with your representation here, but we know that there is no such consensus in the Bulgarian society. We know that a part of the Bulgarian society is not prepared and does not want the introduction of the euro, so we respect that you represent this part of the Bulgarian society and that you are absolutely necessary for this debate as a political force to represent it so that this debate can be held to the end. Colleagues, the introduction of the euro is not dependent on the governor of BNB or BNB. First of all, this is a political act, and second of all, it will happen in this room if it does. If it does, it will happen in this room, because, first of all, the decision must be made. Secondly, the Law on BNB should be amended, where it is said which is our currency, where it is told, what is its course, which is the anchor, what course this anchor is in, how the left is tied to it and so on. What manager of the BNB?! That can't be your argument. Your argument is valid that part of the Bulgarian society does not want the euro. Okay, we're gonna fight this battle, we're gonna argue about the euro. But not by participating or voting against the election of the governor of BNB, you do another job without interfering with your political autonomy and autonomy, because it is none of us's business, at least me. I just want to clear some things up. Do you think you're putting those who said two hours ago that you wanted to take them down longer? I'm asking a question. The answer I know, and you know it, nothing to do with the euro. You said your position. Everyone understood it. The whole Bulgarian people know that you are behind this position, and we know that you are behind this position, so that you are autonomous to make a decision. I just wanted to say that the introduction of the euro does not depend on BNB and the manager, but depends on this room when the time comes. There were other arguments that were said, but I would like to return to the fact that I find no useful argument for your coalition and for the country's governance and for this whole campaign around the choice to be made in front of the public in the Bulgarian Parliament and not to have consensus. If it were anyone else from the opposition or from outside, yes, but the person for whom you have voted twice not all of you, but most, including the finance minister, to be president of the most important Commission, cannot be explained. There is another reason why the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister from Ivo Prokopiev depended on it. [[Laughter]] You laugh, but you know that the DPS is an extremely informed party and alabalisms from this tribune we are not talking about. The man, the oligarch, who tries to swallow the whole of Bulgaria, and Bulgaria sees it, will sit on it. This regulator is very important to him. Do you want me to explain why? I can talk to you for half an hour on this subject at least. [[Noise and lines.]] He is very important for this post, this regulator, to get the license of the Macedonian Bank to drive the banks that have left them with Bulgarian owners for 15 years and so on and so forth. Look, politics is a continuation action, politics is a continuity of actions and events. When I talk to you about these things, you think there's some stupid fixation here you're seriously deluded. This makes this person for years more years than some of you have lived, and now is the emancipation of his work. That's the problem here: he wants this regulator. This guy wants it, and that's why it's all about commitment, and that's what's hurting the country. The third argument, which I would like to refute, is that if the ruling majority does not have a single candidacy, the governor will depend on the choice of the opposition. And who's the opposition? GERB and DPS. And who chose the current manager, who's still the manager? Who picked him? Good Radev, who picked him? In your opinion, according to everyone and in my opinion Radev is doing his job well. [[(Replies from]] He was elected GERB and DPS. [[(Replies from]] Yeah. Okay, how can the opposition choose a good governor, and now it is: "Oh, horror, opposition will choose a governor!" Well, he'll choose. His term of office is six years old and he will anyway skip your term of office. [[(Replies from]] Perhaps if they are as brief as yours seems, it will skip several terms. So, colleagues, let's choose a governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Mr. Karimansky is a decent person, we have entrusted him with the most important committee. Stop serving the oligarchs, Prokopiev the chief, because you will pay a very cruel price in the elections. You're smiling now, however, in the West, and here they see what's going on. It's very clear. And if any of your managers are trying to be there and be connected to this person, I advise you not to. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines to Yordan Tsonev? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Before we proceed to the vote, I will read to you the draft decision, as it was not read at the beginning, which concerns the only remaining candidate. Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He chose Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski as the manager of the The Bulgarian National Bank with a mandate of 6 years. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of the election. This is the draft decision, colleagues. Voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 58, against 36, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We want a re-voting procedure. We did not vote to see if in this half hour's rest you were able to reach any agreement within the majority. So we want a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u132	Okay, we're going over this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u133	The result was not announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u134	Do you want us to rewrite the result? [[Heckling]] It wasn't announced. Yeah, I'm sorry. Can we show it again so I can announce it? [[Heckling]] It wasn't announced, I apologize. I'm going to announce it now. Let's show the results so I can announce it before we move on to the re-vote procedure. They voted 178 MPs: 58, against 36, abstention 84. Colleagues, 84 plus 36 is 120, if that's what you're wondering. It's a re-vote. Vote 235 MPs: 59 against 36 abstention 140. The offer is not accepted. That concludes the procedure. Here you are, Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor, of course. Let's hear from Mr. Karimansky, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I didn't take the floor today, so I'm asking you in three minutes to listen to what I'd like to say to you from this high tribune. I thank everyone who voted for me and everyone who didn't vote for me. I know very well that many of those who did not vote for me in a private conversation have told me that they support me and because of a political decision in the exchange of positions in the coalition will not be able to vote as they would like to vote. Thank you, too. Either way, I received a great and wise political lesson. He will help me because not control of the money of Bulgaria, but knowledge is an indispensable value. That is what I hoped would be understood, but in the end I received the knowledge not you, the MPs. Thank you very much for this lesson. It was claimed that I was honest and hardworking for almost a year since our joint sojourn in this Chamber. I seem to have been that way twice during the Budget Committee, or by people's terms, the budgets of Bulgaria passed through my hands for about 60 billion. lv. I have made every effort and shown an injustice to the people who protect Bulgaria's cultural memory, as museum workers are undoubtedly, to correct at least partially this injustice. I have endured my independent position as a free man who can offer and stand up for a position despite coalition partners. Turns out I wasn't in a controversial position until after that, though. Interesting lesson. It was claimed that 60 million of the budget by mistake of the Finance Ministry had gone to companies for which the opposition was interested. I found out today wasn't a mistake. That's a good lesson. It was claimed that I relied on GERB and DPS when I was left alone in the race, but no one calculated that they were being relied on the moment you raised a second candidate, otherwise the bill did not come out. That's what I'd call a strange lesson. It was claimed and continues to be said that Bulgarian bankers are not fit. Isn't that right? Until this choice, colleagues had saved this opinion of their own. I just didn't know it was true. I'd call it a good lesson. It was remarkable that there was no slop against me while I was the only one who was an announced candidate. I think those are the facts. Isn't that weird?! The first handful of brown liquid flew an hour or two after the application procedure was completed and we became two. Amazing coincidence, but still a good lesson. Offering positions has begun to be bribed, for which the so-called reputation clearly does not matter. I didn't know the World Bank didn't care about that, they don't have an ethical code. Absolutely news to me, but still a good lesson. In Parliament's work and decision on the election of the governor of the BNB, Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister and even senior administration officials intervened, and I thought that they themselves wanted this to remain only in the past. But I'd call that an old lesson I've learned. The insinuations and threats to give up I wouldn't like to count them, I wouldn't like to comment on them because they turned out to be part of the landscape, not a personal case, and this is a relapse and a problem for the country. I pay attention to those who really want to change something in the coalition that they do not change this relapse, that they do not remove it, but only confirm it now. I understand that chasing the account is more important than continuing the change. Give it to me for an earring! Guys, there's something else. There is something in common between the work of the banks and the policy and that is trust. I would not want you to forget it, as I did not forget at the beginning of the opening of this Parliament to remind you of the three values for the prosperity of human life, but now I will not dwell on them. Trust is a very valuable capital. I don't know if we know this lesson. I don't think we know that. And one more thing I don't know. Was it worth spending so much trust lightly? I'm addressing my colleagues in the middle. You'll probably learn this lesson in the coming days, months and years. Thank you for your attention. [[There is such a people standing up and clapping violently and continuously. Applause by GERB - SDS and DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u136	Honourable Members, we have exhausted this item from the agenda. Moving on to the next point: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE OUTSIDE WORKS TEODORA GENTCHOVSKA ON: 1. COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVE IN THE EU'S EUROPEAN POLICY AND SECURITY, DURING THE COUNCIL'S OUTSIDE WORKS 2. STATEMENT OF ANALLY BERBOK First I give the floor for procedure to Mladen Shishkov and then we will have to vote whether to open or close the meeting as requested by the importer. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask for a three-minute procedure that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u139	...will change the atmosphere and the mood in the room a little bit. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're on the eve of the brightest Christian holiday. Today the Catholic community in Bulgaria is overwhelmed by a special thrill and excitement in anticipation of the event, which brightens our daily lives with special charge and emotion. Today, the world's largest Christian church is preparing to celebrate its Passover. This year we celebrate the Savior's resurrection not with fireworks and fanfare, but with explosions and sirens. We're celebrating in a frat war. It was as if they had forgotten the commandments of the Holy Father, who three years ago visited our country with the call for Peace on earth! Just as our ancestors are bearers of the ultimate covenant, reminding the world that there is a heroic nation thirsting for its sacred freedom, so today, more than ever, it is necessary to remind our neighbors that the peaceful cohabitation of people of different ethnicities and religions is a fundamental human value. Today, we must multiply our efforts to share good with our neighbors, the good that we have received in inheritance, is the result of the struggle of many people, a struggle carried to our hearts. Nowadays, Bulgarian Catholics live in peace with everyone, celebrate their proverbial hard work and vitality, do not save energy and strength, giving all their affection for the progress of the motherland. And today, they have harnessed the strength and energy to help the brotherly Ukrainian people. By finishing, I will quote the words of the Holy Father who condemned the war by calling it blasphemous outrage against God! War is a human act leading to idolatry of power. The peace that Jesus gives us on Easter is not the peace that is achieved by force, conquest, and by various forms of imposition. Such peace is actually the pause between two wars. The time we live in leaves us deeply troubled because the forces of evil pass through it. The atrocious and painful events we have witnessed for many days now confirm that war is a failure of politics and humanity, shameful surrender, defeat to the forces of evil. So today, more than ever, we need to remember why the Savior sacrificed his life for us to make us better. Happy Holiday! Be safe! Peace on earth! Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, DPS and]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Regarding the holding of the sitting, we will hold a vote as a closed vote. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal that the hearing be held in closed session. Upon completion of the hearing and the beginning of parliamentary control, we will proceed back to an open session. Vote 161 MPs: 148 against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please turn off the cameras and microphones. I ask the Quaestors to escort all outsiders out of the room. Colleagues, I'm giving you five minutes off when I ask you to leave your phones outside the room. [[After the closed session.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u141	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We will begin with the Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov, who is here, waiting for Mr. Grozdan Karadjov. Is the first question from the MP Petar Kulinsky in the Chamber? Let us continue with the issue by the MPs Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Anastasov and Fatme Ramadan about the government's actions to ensure Bulgaria's energy security. Mr. Atalay, you have an opportunity to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. Art. 91 and art. 92 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have raised a question about the government's actions to ensure the energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear Minister, the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria for the transport of natural gas together with the liquefied natural gas terminal Alexandroupolis are a key part of the plan for diversification of the energy supply of the Republic of Bulgaria so that our country can guarantee its energy sovereignty and not allow situations where the supply of energy sources is used as a political lever against our country as a loyal member of the European Union and NATO. In this regard, our question to you is: given the current challenges to the international security architecture and in particular to the energy security in Bulgaria, to answer to us what actions the government is taking to speed up the construction of the gas interconnection, Greece, Bulgaria for the transport of natural gas, as well as to speed up the construction of the liquefied natural gas terminal Alexandroupolis, in which the Bulgarian gas transmission operator Bulgartransgaz is a shareholder? If there's anything that we've been asking since we asked the question, Mr. Minister, because our question is from February, I believe that with your answer and then with our opinion we will clarify things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u143	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Atalay, Mrs. Ramadan! In relation to the question you have asked, I provide you with the following information. In the execution of my instructions, the Executive Director of the Ministry of Energy provides information on the current situation in the construction of the gas pipeline, Greece, Bulgaria, including a report on the progress in the implementation of the construction activities, technical activities, regulatory issues, as well as upcoming and remaining actions until the pipeline is put into operation. Based on this information, the overall progress in the construction of the IGBs on 14 April, i.e. yes, the information has been updated by 14 April 2022, is as follows: 91.15% degree of completion; overall progress has been made in the period 1 January 2022. "April 14th, 2022" "13.15%." The negotiations between shareholders on a new statute of the project company have been concluded, an application for certification as a transmission network operator has been submitted to the regulatory authorities of Greece and Bulgaria. The activities of changes to the Network Code, the operator's Tariff Code, choice of sub-forms for reserve capacity, choice of gas exchange, finalisation of a gas supply contract for filling the pipeline and technological needs, agreements for the transport of natural gas, interconnection, agreement for operation of a gas hub, and other commercial documents shall be taken into account as finalised or implemented as planned. The agreement on connecting to the neighbouring operators, namely TAB, Desla, Bulgartransgaz, has been completed and the construction activities of connecting TAB and Desla, have started. In view of the identified delay in part of the linear part activities and the construction of the terrestrial facilities at corporate level, actions have been taken to activate a contract clause with the contractor and to impose penalties, as you know, since 1 January 2022. At institutional level, action is taken to establish an interdepartmental group for administrative support for the process of putting the project into service and in view of the short time limits for the completion of construction activities and the legal procedures necessary for putting the project into operation. All assigned activities run parallel. Meetings and talks at intergovernmental level with representatives of the governments of both countries were held in connection with the acceleration of the completion and commissioning activities. The necessary support at the highest state level has been provided for the progress of the update of the interconnector in the context of the events leading to the increased risk of energy supply in the region, as you yourself note. With regard to the question of the liquefied natural gas terminal near the city of Alexandroupolis, I inform you that the General Assembly of the shareholders of The deadline for the construction and initial commercial operation of the liquefied gas terminal is at the end of 2023. The financing of the project is provided both under European funding, approved grant of 166,7 million. Euro under the Operational Programme "Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation" as well as under loans from the National Bank of Greece. The bank's main credit conditions are signed with a total amount of 283 million. In addition to the initial financing commitments undertaken by the shareholders of EUR 81,4 million, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR to cover part of the project costs under a signed agreement between the shareholders. Currently, the main contracts for the construction of the terminal are signed, namely the purchase of a floating facility, which will be in a terminal for liquefied natural gas, pipelines and a mooring system. Paid advance amounts guaranteeing the commitments made by the Gaztrade S.A. and ensuring compliance with the agreed timetable for the conversion of the ship and its positioning near Alexandroupolis at the end of 2023. In view of the developments in recent international events and in the course of the plan for diversification of energy supply and guaranteeing energy supply and guaranteeing energy security, the Board of Directors of Gaztrade S.A. is approving a recommendation to the General Assembly of Shareholders to apply for an independent natural gas system licence concerning a second liquefied gas terminal in the Alexandroupolis region. In conclusion, I assure you that the government is implementing all possible measures and actions for timely deployment of the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria, including the NG terminal near Alexandroupolis. The government is in close cooperation with the Greek side, as well as with the European Commission, with a view to speeding up energy security in the region as part of the process of diversification of energy sources in the context of current political events. And the latest news that came to light yesterday, all hydraulic tests on the Stara Zagora connection were successfully conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Atalay, you're entitled to a line. Whichever one of you decides.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. We're glad something's going on out there. I will remind you that you have a bet with Mr. Atalay on July 1, 2022 that gas will flow down the pipe. So if you could just tell us if on July 1st it would flow. I mean it very well. We are absolutely concerned about Bulgaria's energy independence, which in the new context has already become an absolute must, as they say in English, something that must happen. As for the terminal, the so-called independent natural gas system of Alexandroupolis, we see that there is a certain delay there mostly from a Greek side with the approval. Here, by the way, is the time to remind you that after the pressure of the DPS, the previous government still agreed to have a share in the project company of this independent gas system because the previous government had no such intention. What you have announced is somewhat joyous that a second such terminal will be built, we also have such information about the intention of the Greek side. However, as the deadline for implementation is 2023, which in the current situation is a little far from the point of view of ensuring energy security for Europe and Bulgaria in particular, as this is practically an international project, we will allow ourselves to give you an absolutely friendly advice to make things smoother. When you move on, use energy diplomacy. A moment ago, the Foreign Minister was here for a hearing. It absolutely respects the norms of diplomacy and the Diplomatic Service Act, so there is an opportunity to support this process, and keep Mr. Asen Vassilev away from energy projects because we see everything he intervenes in somehow. Firstly, he lacked all kinds of diplomacy, which is quite important at this critical time. We also see the results of his actions, so continue, but Assen Vassilev further away from energy and we will be closer to energy independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u147	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I honestly don't run away from the bet, and I don't remember it, but since the hydraulic tests are over, as soon as the water runs, we can run gas. Maybe we'll put gas on the pipe from today. It is a very different question to be absolutely correct whether the whole licensing procedure, work, confirmation by the European Commission allows commercial exploitation. That's why we talked about technical exploitation and gas leaks.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u149	You said on July 1st, Assen Vassilev said we'd get gas on July 1st. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u150	Okay. Yes, regarding the terminal in Alexandroupolis, I can informally confirm that options are being discussed, yes, with a high degree of probability there will be a second terminal. Regarding energy diplomacy, I believe that everyone is doing everything possible to the extent of their capacity, knowledge and efforts to achieve the best for Bulgaria, so I hope we will do well enough, especially in the context of the current situation, war in Ukraine, uncertainty and volatility of prices, I think it will benefit the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u151	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues, first of all, welcome to Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Grozdan Karadjov. As on a list we should start with him, the next question is to Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadzhov of the National Representative Vassil Petrov Zashkev about the repair of the road I-8 in the Elin Pelin - Ihtiman and Ihtiman districts. Here you are to develop your current question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is related to a very important section of the road Sofia, Ivaylovgrad, which enters my electoral area and is extremely important for the residents of the town of Kostenets, of which a large part travel to the capital city, should get on the highway of Ihtiman and the other part by Elin Pelin and in the district of Vakarel, practically the road is unusable. There are huge holes there. Here they had sent me pictures of the citizens of Vakarel and Elin Pelin. And the meaning of the road parallel to the highway "Trakiya" and in many cases can be used because, you know, when there is an accident on the highway or is closed, it makes its importance much greater and therefore its good condition is very important. So my question is: when and by the end of the year will at least partial repairs be carried out? I know there is a question asked to you by a fellow MP, but the citizens of Vakarel, Elin Pelin, and Ihtiman, and the surrounding settlements insist that this be done, and if possible, at least partially priority. Because, I say again, in certain sections it is virtually unusable, I mean Vakarel Ihtiman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u153	And thank you, Mr. Zashev. Mr. Karadjov, you have the floor for an answer within 3 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zashkev, yes, unfortunately a very large part of the roads in Bulgaria are in similar condition, which is why they need to be renovated. The question of road I-8 is precisely such a Unfortunately, the existing technical project that I found in the API has expired and is currently unusable under current legislation. Therefore, in 2022, i.e. very soon, probably this month, a public contract will be announced to update the existing technical project for major repair of 58 km from road 1-8, namely from km 89+170 to km 147+750. This is the section from the road node with the highway "Trakiya" to the border with Pazardzhik district. The plans are for starting the main repair of the first-class road, but an update of the project development is needed. The tender documentation for the announcement of the contract is currently being prepared. As I said, there will probably be an order for an update of the technical project this month. When an updated technical project is ready, which we expect at the earliest autumn and at the end of 2022, public procurements will be announced for the selection of a builder and construction supervision to perform the main repair of more than 58 km from road 1-8. After selecting performers and issuing a construction permit, the repair of the route will most likely start in the spring of 2023. Until the start of the rehabilitation of the Republican road it will be cared for under the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance, and in the monthly assignment for April this year for road I 8 is provided for repair of road pavement in the section of km 46+600 and km 147+0. Work is being done to improve drainage and landscape grooming. Here is the time to complain again that such ongoing maintenance, repair and re-asphalting is possible only if any of last night's decisions or like it become a fact next week, because I do not lose hope that the National Assembly will help, but here is one of the cases in which we cannot assign, we do not have a single opportunity to make a new award. These new assignments are the key to these repairs being launched, and I therefore ask the Members of the National Assembly to understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u155	Thank you. Vasil Zashkev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, we all take this issue into account, but in the end, people care when you think it can happen in a good way. You said repair, but I didn't happen to mention in my question partial repair. Is it possible, if there is still money, and at what time, of course, predictable, such a repair is possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u157	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zashkev, I will have to repeat that even for 10 meters change of the guard or for 100 meters re-assalt only one layer of road or even for filling holes it is necessary to sign the award, and such awards under the current contracts for repair and maintenance cannot be made as they have long been exceeded. In addition, they have been terminated, explicitly saying that we can currently only assign winter, provided that it is not winter and emergency, but the case of emergency is if yesterday or the other day something broke. The law there is firm. So I'm using this backdrop again to ask here Saturday and Sunday to reconsider, and if we can somehow find a solution to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There is a request on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group for a declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs! Dear Mr. Chairman, I am referring to Mr. Minchev, the MPs from the parliamentary group of the DPS make this declaration because one month on the agenda does not include the request of the DPS to hear Kiril Petkov about the management of the ubiquitous crisis caused by the war in Ukraine and the price crisis in energy from the end of last year. Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union in which the government does not have and does not implement a systematic plan with measures against these crises, and this comparison provokes the impression that our society is being punished. The agenda of the government and parliament from the very beginning of this government has nothing to do with the agenda of society and people, and this is seen by everyone despite attempts by the government to convince us that we are not seeing properly. In this unprecedented global crisis, our socially weak fellow citizens and pensioners are left to cope alone or more precisely to squander, unfortunately, in the conditions of high electricity prices, food prices, medicines, heating and so on, with the forecasts of the Bulgarian Economists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences being that by October prices will be increased by 50% to 200%. At the same time, aid for high fuel prices for low-income families is paid in neighbouring Greece, while pensioners are given 200 euros a month as compensation for expensive food. Family supplements for children increase and continue aid for high electricity prices. In Romania, another neighbouring country, the government introduced a ceiling of electricity and gas prices for a period of one year for both domestic consumers and businesses. These are examples to our neighbouring countries, but in all other countries of the European Union, and not only do such measures also apply. The rulers should have at least met them long ago and gained experience, as we have witnessed in other cases where it turns out to be related even to personal economic interests. There are no measures in our country to ensure the country's livelihood, which is a matter of national security. Farmers are failing under the current conditions of increased fuel prices, electricity, plant protection products, as we have already indicated. Unfortunately, the high prices of fertilisers for agriculture continue, and only for advance payment, which in most cases is impossible for farmers. More and more farmers are closing down their farms and handing their animals over to a slaughterhouse. The production of fruits and vegetables is about to disappear. The areas with tomatoes have already decreased six times officially, and the areas with cucumbers and pepper five times. Due to financial difficulties in the orchard, many producers begin to root out their gardens and intend to rent them out. Moreover, the government's lack of care is at risk of problems with providing food supplies from the first need in Bulgaria, as well as a drastic increase in food prices. At the same time, in countries such as France and Spain, protective buying-in prices of milk have been introduced, and in France and Greece there are minimal buying-in prices of meat and so on. With what did Bulgarian farmers, who in some extremely difficult times managed to preserve our national world recognised traditions in this sector, deserve this neglect of their problems by the state and are now forced to give up what they have been doing for years of hard work and effort?! A national livelihood is in danger and will almost disappear. According to experts from the agricultural sector, the main consumer basket in Bulgaria is already imported because the sector is in a crisis for which there is no analogue in the last 30 years. Due to the crisis of the war in Ukraine and the price energy crisis, food prices on the international markets are constantly increasing, which, naturally, is reflected in Bulgaria, and there is a risk that even basic foods will become boutique for many people because of the impossible prices. We believe that it is imperative that the government and the Minister of Agriculture be heard in Parliament in order to present what measures can be applied in the agricultural sector to preserve production and to ensure the state's livelihood. There are no measures for tourism that make a serious contribution to the country's gross domestic product. In one month the summer tourist season will start, but will there be one in Bulgaria because no visible measures are presented in this important sector. People's attitudes towards this government are already extremely negative. The results of a recent poll by the agency "Alpha Research" showed that 61% of the people say there is no government policy to support the business. According to nearly 78% the policy to tackle the price crisis in energy is unsuccessful, and nearly 89% of people believe that income policy and inflation policy is unsuccessful. Another study of the same sociological agency a day ago reported that nearly 60% of Bulgarians have a negative attitude towards the ruling coalition. The fact that it was broadcast on BNT seems to provoke the government to act through the crisis PR and here, from the parliamentary tribune, we have heard a declaration that the reasons for the failure of the government are caused by opposition sabotages, criticism of their management policy, and one is virtually lacking. She's not prominent and she doesn't feel like people. Policy is not made with declarations from the government, but policy is made with clear policies, with clear vision, with successful implementation of these policies. In this crisis situation, other Member States of the European Union, as we have seen from our neighbouring countries, are doing what is necessary for the socially weak, pensioners and the vulnerable. Therefore, dear Mr. Chairman, the DPS insists that our request for a hearing of Cyril Petkov be included as soon as possible because the problems can no longer be delayed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the MPs Bajram Bajram, Pavlin Krastev and Adlen Shevked concerning the rehabilitation of Republican road III-592 Momchilgrad You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u162	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue by the MPs from the Ninth Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Multi-Rehabilitation Region is about the rehabilitation of Republican Road III-592 Momchilgrad Last week we had asked a question again about a third-class road from our area from which we were chosen. You then gave one hope for residents in these over 20 settlements. At our meetings in the region and residents from other municipalities in the same way ask their questions. This question is related precisely to their demands, and this third-class road is the only time that can now be alternative to the section of cross-border corridor No. 9.. the section from Kardzhali to the border crossing point Makaza, because the other alternative path is currently closed due to a landslide, namely the old road Jebel. This is the old road, so to speak, from Momchilgrad to Kirkovo, which can be an alternative route in possible emergency repair activities. The reason to turn to you is that the technical and operational state of the road is extremely poor, i.e. with potential conditions for the occurrence of road accidents. Its condition is completely inoperable and almost destroyed surface, and in some places it even lacks one. Currently, in this state it is difficult to move the population from three municipalities, namely Momchilgrad, Krumovgrad and Kirkovo, with nearly 20,000 people. In recent years, numerous letters have been sent to the Road Infrastructure Agency and to the Regional Road Management Office, but no action by the government has been provided, by the relevant departments and we turn on behalf of the inhabitants of the villages Progress, Gorsko Dulevo, Podkova, Chorbadjiysko, Kukuriak, Kran, Tokachka, Topolka, Candylka, Sarnak, Zvanarka, Krumovgrad and the other municipalities and settlements, which I previously counted, for urgent action on this road. When will the necessary action be taken by the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out a major repair of the road in question to bring the standard requirements of the third-class Republican road connecting dozens of settlements? I will only recall my words from last week: we see that your coalition partners have boycotted you for a second week. Similarly, it has been boycotted by all governments since 2009. We hope you are not part of this boycott, we hope the state will finally rehabilitate this time in a decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u163	Thank you, but I'm gonna have to ask you to follow the rules. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shevked, Dear Mr. Bajram, Dear Mr. Krastev, Republic Road III-592 is not boycotted in any way or at least by the Road Infrastructure Agency. It is included in our annual repair programme, and I can say that in 2022 we will announce a public procurement for a technical project for major repairs. This is the first and main requirement to proceed with major repairs. Why? Because the route III-592 was built between 1959 and 1976 and since then no major repairs have been carried out on the route. By 2021 small repairs were carried out on the third-class road through an ongoing repair and maintenance programme, including re-asphalting of areas of the pavement, but this only delayed but did not replace the necessary major repairs. Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the Law we will announce very soon, you will see it in the Public Procurement Register, ordering a technical project for major repair of the nearly 68km track entirely. And the section is from the town of Momchilgrad through the village of Podkova to the town of Krumovgrad. The design of a technical project, as I said, is the first and compulsory step before the taking of quality construction works. The project will define the specific repair rehabilitation activities that need to be implemented, their estimated value and the duration of the implementation. An open procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractors of construction and construction supervision will be held in the event of an open project, which is again a requirement of the Law. At this stage, the main renovation is also envisaged to take place probably in 2024, but if there are no appeals and the procedures take place more quickly, it is possible to start in 2023 without sounding like a promise. For the period until it starts, we will continue by the Road Infrastructure Agency and I will say that I am seeking the assistance of the MPs from all parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they are in control or opposition position, if it can be given the opportunity of the Road Infrastructure Agency to start implementing these current repairs again, because after winter, holes are opening up, entire craters are opening up and they are hiding dangers from catastrophes, loss of life or people's health. So I appeal again, if I may, to the National Assembly to assist the Road Infrastructure Agency. According to our annual report on the state of the Republican Road Network, which we publish annually on 31 December 2021. 23.5 km from the pavement of this road are in average condition, but the remaining 44 km are in poor condition, that is, twice as much. A stretch of 16 km length has a reduced gauge and without the necessary wearability, where the technical project will be for more serious engabriate and rehabilitate this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u165	Thank you. Colleagues, come on in. You're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u166	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We, your colleagues from the Kardzhali multi-mandated electoral area, so to speak, are satisfied in part because indeed this population, which inhabited this part of the region, their main livelihood was tobacco. We know 2009 how tobacco production was destroyed by our government, and then the only major problem for them is this time, and until it is repaired this time, the population in these settlements will look for their livelihoods elsewhere. Exactly for the ongoing repairs you are saying about, I hope you now find the least for the benefit of the people to start the new repairs. You said that by 2025. A very long horizon that eventually this time may begin to rehabilitate. We see that you will have a hard time this year, but you have laid some foundations and this, so to speak, gives a partial answer, but hopefully as a minister and deputy prime minister in this field this very first year the current renovation will be on time and, if possible, in 2023, to start at least the step-by-step and in what way can the phased rehabilitation of this road begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u167	Thank you, Mr. Bayram. We move on to the next question by the MPs Sevim Ali, Fatme Ramadan and Esheref Escheref regarding ensuring the safety of all the traveling roads on the two third-class roads Which of the three will develop the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Our question to you is about guaranteeing the safety of all citizens on the two third-class roads Mr. Minister, sadly, on 9 March this year a 26-year-old woman died and three others were injured in another road accident on their way out of the town of Sungurlare towards the village of Chernitsa at the intersection where the two third-class roads crossed. These roads are owned by the state, i.e. they are cared for by the Road Infrastructure Agency. In 2019, major repairs were made on the road, with the necessary signaling and speed limitation of 50 km per hour, but in connection with the frequent traffic accidents with fatal end, unfortunately, the inhabitants of Sungurlare municipality insist on designing and building a circular movement at the intersection at which the two third-class roads intersect. In this regard, our question to you is: what measures will the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take to ensure the safety of all traveling on the two third-class roads? Namely road III-7306 (Lozarevo Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u169	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ramadan, Dear Mr. Ali, Dear Mr. Escheref, the state of the two third-class roads The struts are in good operational condition, without holes and deformations threatening the safety of movement. The horizontal marking is also in good condition, meeting the requirements of Regulation No 2 of 17 January 2001 on road markings and the vertical warning available meets Regulation No 18 of 23 July 2001 on road markings. There are no violent wood, shrub and grassy vegetation along the route, limiting the visibility of the area. The reasons for the traffic accident that you are referring to are due to non-compliance with the Road Traffic Act and the permanent organisation of traffic in the road intersection section, which is expressed in non-compliance with the road sign Stop! Skip those moving on the road with the advantage of the driver of one of the vehicles involved in the accident in question. In connection with the information received about an increased number of accidents at the request of Mr. Georgi Kenov, Mayor of Sungurlare Municipality, and in accordance with the Order of 5 November 2021 of the Director of the Regional Road Management Its task was to analyse the need to take additional measures to ensure road safety. After having carried out a review, the Commission found the following: 1. The boundaries of the urbanised territory of the town of Sungurlare on road III-705 shall be from the respective kilometres to the corresponding kilometres and on road III-73/06 from/to the corresponding kilometer; 2. Road III-705 from km 11 to km 12+527 overlaps with road III-7306 from km 7+525 to km 8+678, as the road intersection falls within the features of the urbanised territory of the town of Sungurlare and this is very important from a legal point of view; 3. The 1st-type four-wheel intersection, with no left-hand cornering strips from the main direction, with drop-shaped and triangular islands in the secondary direction. The main direction is road III-7306 and the municipal street of Grozde Georgiev. The droplets and triangular islands are marked; 4. The intersection is not lit; That's the fourth finding. 5. The main cause of road accidents is simply non-compliance with the advantage of road drivers. Analyzing the findings of the examination and the expert discussion, the Commission has considered that additional measures need to be taken to limit the prerequisites for the occurrence of road accidents and improving traffic safety, namely: In the short term, the projector is to be entrusted immediately with the transport works and transport facilities to draw up a proposal for the installation of additional vertical signalling and horizontal marking. In the long run the road intersection to be reconstructed and sanctified, as for the proposed events to be made... [[the President signals that time has run out]] Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u171	Mr. Karadjov, you'll have an opportunity in the back. Which one of you three is gonna make a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, first of all, I'd like to thank you for the answer you're giving me. Indeed, the question we are asking you is dictated by ever more frequent traffic accidents precisely by this intersection, which lies at the exit of the town of Sungurlare in the direction of the village of Chernitsa, the place where two third-class roads from the Republican road network are actually crossed. The inhabitants of the municipality of Sungurlare insist that adequate measures be taken to first design this circular intersection and then build it. The last serious traffic accident, as you said, as my colleague said before me, was from 9 March. Unfortunately, then a 26-year-old young woman, a mother of three, died in this place. As far as I have information, Mr. Chairman, about the specific problem and case in the municipality of Sungurlare, since you said that this intersection really falls within the urbanized territory of the municipality of Sungurlare from the local management, the local authorities of Sungurlare have already taken measures to have one such project under which there are currently co-ordination procedures, as far as I am aware and as far as I have information in the API Burgas, in the Ministry of Interior of Burgas, and in the RIEW Burgas. This project is then to be granted a construction permit by the Ministry of Regional Development. It can be said, Mr. Minister, that this problem is identical to the problem in Aytos Municipality at the entrance of the city of Aytos, which we have discussed many times with you, as there is also a need to design two circular intersections first and then, in order to resolve this regional problem cardinally, it is necessary to design and build a northern perimeter of the city. In the municipality of Sungurlare people are insisting on this and in order to solve this problem, the municipality is designing this project, currently running, as I said, coordination procedures. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This project is to be presented to your attention in the Ministry, approved and we hope that this circular movement for the safety of the people who are moving along both road sections will be built as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u173	Thank you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You don't. Thank you. The last question for today to Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov is from the MP Andrey Chorbanov regarding overpass at the village of Gara Elin Pelin, Elin Pelin Municipality, Sofia District. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As already mentioned, my question is about an overpass at the village of Gara Elin Pelin, Elin Pelin Municipality, Sofia District. Dear Minister, in connection with the received signal and numerous complaints by residents of the village of Gara Elin Pelin, Elin Pelin municipality, Sofia region, about the unbearable noise and vibrations created by passing heavy goods vehicles at the overpass due to the many newly built logistics and production bases in Elin Pelin municipality. The overpass was renovated in 2017 by the Road Infrastructure Agency (RD-37-13) and it did not provide for silence panels that would silence the noise of heavy goods vehicles and would improve the living conditions of residents in the immediate vicinity of the overpass. Also for several years, the dilation joints of the overpass facility have been compromised by increased traffic and when passing over them create unbearable noise and vibration that directly affects the environment, psyche and health of residents. I saw the noise myself. My question is: when will a soundproofing barrier be placed on the overpass, and what measures will you take to correct the malfunctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, the railway overpass at the village of Gara Elin Pelin at km 14+100 on third-class road III 105 Botevgrad Exactly in order to reduce noise in the repair of the facility, the thickness of the flooring is increased. In 2016 under the Programme "Main repair" of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" of the facility were implemented repair and reconstruction activities according to an approved technical project. Its bearing capacity and the thickness of the structure has been increased given increased traffic and with a view to reducing noise and vibrations from the movement of heavy goods vehicles. In this connection, the thickness of the flooring has changed and the metal connections are hardened. The purpose of these events is to silence the bridge and increase the durability of the facility. Last but not least, there is a higher safety of the movement along the railway overpass and comfort of passengers. After placing the site in service with permission to use for all faults identified in the warranty period, including dilatation joints, the Agency shall in due time require the contractor to remove its damage at its own expense. The fugues on the bridge are currently in good condition. After the repair works carried out and putting the facility into operation, a speed limitation of the overpass is introduced up to 40 km per hour, which most of the drivers of heavy goods road vehicles do not comply. The systematic infringement has repeatedly been signalled by the Municipality of Elin Pelin, which, together with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, has taken the necessary measures to increase the effectiveness of controls regarding the restriction. This non-compliance with the speed of movement not only continues, but also has a negative impact on the condition of the pavement and fugues, respectively at noise and vibration levels. The reduction of noise and vibrations from the intensive traffic of the railway overpass in the village of Gara Elin Pelin can be achieved by respecting the introduced speed limit, and the control of its compliance is from the competence of the Road Police to the Ministry of Interior. In addition, I would also like to say that the Road Infrastructure Agency is taking various measures and actions to limit noise levels as updated in 2019. There is such a document - Strategic noise map, and there are 1122 km in this map, road sections on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which have traffic in total over 3 million vehicles per year. This overpass is not covered by this strategic noise map and it must be made clear that for all areas included in this strategic noise map falling within its scope, the proposed noise protection measure is the construction of a noise protection wall, especially in the aspect that the facility has not been surveyed for wearability in relation to additional installation of noise protection panels, which will have an impact on the behaviour of the bridge mainly in the case of wind load. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u177	Thank you. Mr. Chorbanov, you're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a point of reference, I just want to ask: I understand that this section has obviously not been part of the schemes, has not entered into the programme on the map for which it needs to be built. However, apart from the part that concerns, naturally, the authorities of the DMV, which must control the movement, do you consider, in terms of noise, to be a policy to investigate areas that have not entered the map but for which such signals are entered, all the more so that the overpass itself is inside the settlement and has an extremely direct impact on all those around.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u179	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chorbanov, however, spending public funds especially for such audits is not exactly in the territory where I can now pronounce myself, but if this falls within the capabilities of the Road Infrastructure Agency and it is appropriate, of course, that we will conduct such audits and, depending on the outcome, we will act, I say again, according to the appropriate and economical use of the public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u181	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. That concludes the questions to you. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Energy Mr. Alexander Nikolov. The next question is from the MP Martin Dimitrov on progress in the construction of the gas connection with Greece. Mr. Dimitrov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to your answer to such a question today, and I am glad that progress has been made. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have been asking the same question to previous governments for 10 years, and we have made great efforts to convince these ancestors of yours that the construction of the gas connection with Greece should be a huge priority. And notice, the current situation came when such connectivity was needed very much, and this relationship has not yet been built. For this reason, I urge you to continue as you have done so far, to monitor on a weekly basis what progress is and not to calm down until we see the pipe built, because I personally have been told by previous energy ministers at least three or four times that it is ready or that it is about to be ready in a few months. So it is extremely critical this summer, and I would love it if you could also say a period in which it will be completed. Realizing that it depends on regulatory decisions and that it is not that simple, but this summer this relationship should be ready. The related question, Minister, is: are you already talking about delivering unused quantities of Azeri gas through this connection and this method? Are there any progress made so that, together with the construction of the link, alternative quantities can be provided in this way, in the current contract? Is it really necessary to supplement this contract or to sign a new contract for the supply of Azeri gas? I have further questions in today's parliamentary control as to how much the idea of the European Commission as a single consumer will work to buy gas, but for now I am asking you about the gas connection with Greece, the time limits for its construction and the readiness to buy the unsupplied quantities of Azeri gas this year, perhaps in its second half, as soon as this project is finally built.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u183	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Dimitrov! I will not repeat the data I read in the previous question, I will just add a little bit more to them and then I will answer the additional questions asked. About the status of the implementation in additional details: engineering at the moment "98,54%; supplies of equipment and complete equipment "99,49%; construction "92,75%; linear part "all eight cranial nodes completed and hydro-tested. It is extremely important that the hydrotests were successfully completed technically as a critical point. Total completed reclamation at the moment.. 68 km. The implementation of the ground facilities is as follows: GIS Komotini 65,12%, Stara Zagora 85,93%, Dispatch Centre I can assure you that weekly control will not be stopped, on the contrary, will be strengthened, and this is the policy that we are also following with our Greek counterpart, Mr Costas Skrecasts. With regard to commercial regulatory matters. At the moment, the negotiations between shareholders on new statutes are closed. An application for certification as an independent operator has been submitted. All negotiations on the tariff code of operators, reserve capacity and so on are concluded. Regarding the question you have asked and in unison with signed back in time by the pre-governancers of the Bulgargaz.I can assure you that with the expiry of the specific anexes in the middle of the current year, everything is being done so that all quantities of the existing contract are delivered. The technical mechanism and technical route on which the amount of natural gas from the partners in Azerbaijan in Bulgaria will enter will be specified in the light of the regulatory requirements that you mentioned, which are beyond all the fields of influence that we may have in Bulgaria. At the moment, an updated schedule has been drawn up by the performer, which does not include technical delays, so we stick to what has been commented earlier, namely technical completion in the middle of the year. To conclude, I would like to assure you again that all possible mechanisms for delivering maximum added value from existing long-term contracts, including physical delivery through the relevant technical connection Greece Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov? You don't want a replica of your right. The next question is from the National Representative Stoyan Taslakov on a long-term contract with Gazprom on gas supplies in Bulgaria. You are welcome to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! As you know, the gas supply contract between Gazprom and Bulgaria expires on 31 December this year. A new long-term contract is to be signed or is not to be guaranteed to the Bulgarian business and productions quantities of gas at a reasonable price. Hungary's prime minister reacted stately and acted in a way in which Hungary is currently paying gas bills at times lower than other European countries by signing a long-term contract with You, as Minister of Energy, are expected to be aware of this and to be concerned. I therefore ask you to answer the following question: is the Ministry of Renewal of the Treaty working with Gazprom. Is there a team already formed to lead the negotiations? What will be the methods for achieving better prices for Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u187	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Taslakov! Taking into account the situation with the war in Ukraine, at the moment, negotiations with Meanwhile, at the European level, actions are being dealt with to initiate a common gas purchase for the needs of the 27 member states of the European Union. The proposal made was adopted by the European Commission for discussion. The aim is to do this with a negotiating team and to achieve levels of approximately 50 euros per megawatt hour. In addition, the Ministry of Energy and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria have taken active action to provide natural gas and alternative sources. In this context, action has also been taken to establish contacts with gas suppliers with a view to analysing the possibility of alternatives to Russian supplies. In any case, in the case of alternatives to natural gas supply, Bulgaria will be able to benefit from possible future negotiations with We are also working actively to speed up energy connectivity in the region, which is a key condition for real diversification of energy sources in the context of current political events. Some of these actions relate to the questions raised earlier on infrastructure. In addition or rather, in conclusion, I would like to say that, from a commercial point of view, in the presence of all current geopolitical risks: war, volatility of prices and commercial uncertainty, the signing of a long-term contract in this environment ensures only non-market conditions higher than optimal prices and long-term difficulties in terms of social tolerance of Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Taslakov, you're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u190	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Unfortunately, the supplies provided to Bulgaria by Gsprom, I do not know if it is possible, according to experts it is far from possible to replace them with alternative sources. We're talking about a three-billion-dollar market. I don't know who these companies will be that you want to bring in here, replace Russian fuel, but keep in mind that almost all the pipes of our geographical widths are either owned by or are involved with them. Even the Azeri gas that we expect to receive from Greece, eventually if the connector is completed, even there I think that a large part of the gas is actually owned by I hope that this answer will be satisfied the Bulgarian business and production, which rely on gas supplies. I highly doubt it, but we'll live and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u191	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Taslakov, I will only take one thing to answer. You used the verb that Bulgarian business relies on. Behind this verb is the main function of the energy system, which is sustainability and predictability. The predictability in the actions of the specifically quoted trading partner speaks a lot of facts from the last few weeks, including the requested payment mechanisms, including the apparent use of the trade relations and the stressed dependence on you, not only for Bulgaria, but for the whole European Union. In conclusion, the three billion that Bulgaria consumes, which is actually a little over 3.5 billion, have an alternative, but you are right that the issue here is at a price of not just a trade price, but quite different values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Martin Dimitrov on the actions taken by the European Union to buy natural gas as a single unit. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We further 2017 have proposed that the European Union, which it has collected, and the European Commission, a very serious database, including gas supplies, should start as a single consumer buying natural gas. Then do you know what they told us? We were told, but it won't all agree. It doesn't matter. Even if part of the parties accept such an approach, it is still extremely valuable because the larger the quantities are bought, the price becomes more favourable. So, Minister, this opportunity must be used to the end and not even all EU member states should decide to participate in the procedures, even if half of them decide that this approach is favourable to them, it is a way of achieving better and safer supplies, better price conditions and safer natural gas supplies. So my question is, where are you? Is there any progress in this procedure? Do you have any deadlines in which you expect the first results? I mean, does the Commission already have specific information on progress on the subject? However, with the following question. Bulgaria by the end of the year has a contract for the supply of natural gas from How does one party, in this case, feel that it can unilaterally amend this treaty by saying that it wants payments to be in rubles? A treaty in international law means that contracts change with the participation of all the parties that have signed them. I don't know how someone can unilaterally change a contract?! This goes against all international rules. So thinking in this direction, it is important for us to know whether there are concrete steps, actions and progress in terms of the European Commission's idea of buying natural gas as a single great powerful consumer and to be a way to achieve better price conditions and safer supplies?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u195	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Dimitrov, on 23 March the European Commission published the communication on security of supply and affordable energy prices, opportunities for taking immediate measures and preparation for the upcoming winter season. Communication proposes collective action at European Union level to ensure the security of gas supplies at reasonable prices. It also sets out the relevant joint gas purchase proposal, including liquefied natural gas, possibly in the medium- and long-term perspective of hydrogen. The setting of a maximum price within the European Union at which natural gas can be traded between individual operators and Member States, as well as the establishment of partnerships with international natural gas and hydrogen suppliers, are among the other proposals to limit the rate of increase of energy prices included in this communication. It should be pointed out that there is no single universal response to the energy crisis, as Member States have specific features, specific energy profiles, level of energy interconnection, level of flexibility of contracts, level of contract temporaryity, long term and so on. In this regard, the Commission is prepared to continue working on the subject, including in the framework of forthcoming discussions with the Member States. The Commission is expected to present in May 2022 a plan to reduce dependence on Russian energy sources, as well as an assessment of the possibilities to optimize the electricity market model. With regard to the issue of joint gas purchase and subsequently of hydrogen, we support the creation of a special working group and have initiated additional documents describing the local infrastructure in detail so that we can contribute to a higher degree of independence of the entire region. The relevant group should facilitate negotiations with key international suppliers, including liquefied natural gas from the United States, Mediterranean countries, Africa and the Middle East. The work of the group will be supported by representatives of the Member States and the negotiating team will be led by the Commission. The idea of joint gas purchases follows the approach established in the purchase of vaccines during the pandemic of COVID-19. In this direction is also the one distributed in Bulgaria on the eve of the European Council Non-Paper for a common approach. At the European Council meeting of 24 and 25 March 2022, the leaders of the countries of the European Union agreed to work together for the voluntary joint purchase of gas, liquefied natural gas and hydrogen, using in an optimal way the collective political and market burden of the European Union and its Member States to reduce prices during the negotiations, as you mentioned, at higher prices, economies of scale are realised accordingly. The common purchasing platform will also be open to the Western Balkan countries and the three associated Eastern Partnership countries. On 7 April 2022, the EU Energy Platform for Natural Gas EU Energy Platform was officially presented at a meeting of the Energy Directors-General. At the moment there is a consultation with regional groups, which will last two weeks, and later it is expected that on 26 April the first meeting of companies with natural gas suppliers from the US will take place. In addition, the Republic of Bulgaria has applied for technical assistance in response to an invitation from the European Commission on Repower to reduce the European Union's energy dependence on Russian fossil fuels. Technical assistance is an initiative to identify additional opportunities to diversify natural gas supplies and increase the volumes of liquefied natural gas and imports by pipelines from non-Russian suppliers in non-Russian infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u197	The time, Mr. Nikolov, may be in the back of your jacket to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u198	Yeah, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u199	Here's a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u200	I am pleased, Minister, that Bulgaria has joined this initiative and has a huge perspective, because the larger the volumes, the prices can be more favourable and this can lead to a new kind of security for the entire European Union. Notice that we are the only member of the European Union with a similar dependence on one supplier. No one else has ever let that happen. And this is a long-standing policy in Bulgaria, which is now time to change. When you depend on one supplier, it's a very big risk. We therefore need to build our alternatives. So I'm doing this line to give you an opportunity and to tell you about this European policy. I understand that month of May we expect to have the first signals of what will be the opportunities of this new platform. But in my opinion, this is the future and this is the direction in which we should target different suppliers, alternatives. This will guarantee us both security and more favourable prices. No one will be able to tell us, but from tomorrow you will pay in a single currency, from tomorrow you will not receive your supplies. Nobody's gonna be able to pull our faucet. That's smart politics, Minister. So we really expect the first results in May.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u201	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Please come to the back of your coat and finish your exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, all I wanted to do was answer your question about how to pay for the existing contract. At the moment, the contract is under Swiss law, which requires additional details. We have requested a legal review of the letter sent to Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) and additional details from the Gazprom Export (Gazprom) to clarify the mechanisms so that the Bulgarian company does not fall in any way in breach of the contract, thus putting at risk possible arbitration and the benefits of the Bulgarian society. Regarding the approach of the European Commission, I wanted to initiate a regional meeting of all energy ministers of all neighbouring countries around Bulgaria for a number of reasons. Due to the war in Ukraine, this meeting was postponed for May. However, because I fully share your vision that solutions should be quite flexible, fast and effective, I think that the alternative to the common approach in the European Commission is also a regional approach that covers the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe. Thus, both with existing infrastructure and with our partner relations, especially against the backdrop of liquefied natural gas and existing terminals in Greece and Turkey, I think we will be able to create a sufficiently clear framework for how to ensure our energy security in the coming seasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u203	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva concerning Pavets "Chaira", village of Sestremo, municipality of Belovo, Pazardzhik district. Here you are, Mrs. Tsoneva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 23 March 2022. There was a severe accident in PAVEC, where one of the turbines is still under repair, was seriously damaged in the process of carrying out tests. The capacity of the Pavetc "Chaira" consists of four power stations of Toshiba, each with a power of 210 megawatts in turbine mode and 186,2 megawatts in pump mode, making it the largest similar power plant in Southeast Europe. Since April 1995 the first and second units are in operation and since August 1999 they are in operation. It is the third and fourth units. At the moment, three of its four pumps are not functioning, two of them are in long-term repair, and the third accident last summer and has not been put into operation yet. The long-term renovation, including the emergency on 23 March 2022, has been extended many times. There is also insufficient public information and documents for the award of the repair activities without public procurement. At a press conference on March 23rd, you stated that an inspection was ongoing and data was collected about what happened to the unit. What information have you found and what is the result of the inspection and is there any evidence of a crime committed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, the accident occurred on 23 March 2022 at 15.23 pm. First and foremost, I would like to stress that human health and life are in no way affected by any of the operational or repair personnel. It is also to be said that the machine was not passed on to its owner. "National electricity company" EAD, as they had to pass all stages of water samples, as well as the actual 72-hour tests, which should have taken several days later. This also means that all machine tests are carried out according to a methodology developed by the consortium performing the rehabilitation of a hydro generator 4. In the process of testing the machine in turbine mode, a loud one-time noise is heard. This requires its emergency stop, followed by a view of the external visible part of the hydro generator by specialists of the consortium and representatives of the National Electricity Company. There's a heavy leak of water mixed with engine oil. The morning of the next day, a repeat view of the hydro generator was made, where there were found to be longitudinal cracks in eight out of ten stator columns, part of the turbine spiral chamber. All competent authorities have been informed of the situation. An independent check was immediately appointed by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and included a technical analysis of the reasons that led to the accident, as well as the identification of possible intentional actions. By order of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Commission includes experts from the Energy Holding, the Technical University of Sofia, other organizations for expertise in this area, including intensive discussions for assistance in establishing the reasons that led to the accident, with the company designer of all machinery equipment, namely "Toshiba." The consortium's insurance company has already performed several on-site inspections. All visible and compromised mechanical parts of hydro generator 4 are described. A consolidated report and a report by the insurer should be drawn up to allow specialists to start disassembly works with a view to establishing in fullness all damaged elements and the most important reasons why they led to this accident. At this stage, one has not yet been presented. In addition, I would like to inform you that a legal analysis has already been carried out of the contract signed for the overall rehabilitation of Pavets Pavets, and legal actions relating to the demand for responsibility of the persons concerned are currently under consideration. I can also assure you that all additional data will be sent to the relevant competent authorities and to the Members of the National Assembly in a timely manner during the analysis of the accident which led to the obstruction of the availability of 210 megawatts in Bulgaria's energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u207	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Would you like a line? No. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Krasen Krastev concerning problems with frequent power cuts in the village of Turnava, Byala Slatina municipality. Here you are, Mr. Krastev. You have the floor to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u208	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Most of the residents of Tarnava City Hall, Byala Slatina municipality, have a problem with frequent interruptions and interruptions of the electricity supply in the village, causing damage to the electric appliances for life, causing serious damage to their budget. Interruptions are often more than a few minutes away, suggesting a more serious problem in the power grid and questioning its reliability. I am personally involved with the problem and I want to help solve it, and with your help, I would like to know the reasons for the frequent interruptions of the power supply in the village. According to information from the people of the City Hall, all interruptions mentioned below are not regulated and there was no proper notification of them. Dear Minister, what will the Ministry of Energy take to overcome the problem? Are investments planned by the network owner to improve the state, quality of electricity and continuity of supply. The residents of Tarnava hope to resolve the problem, and this is linked to specific deadlines for implementation. To your attention we also present part of the interruptions for the last two months at dates and hours on 23 February at 8:00 pm, 12 March at 12:00 pm, 13 March at 12:00 pm and 15 March at 12:00 am Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u209	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Krastev, in connection with the questions you have raised regarding the power problems in the village of Turnava, Byala Slatina Municipality, I would like to inform you of the following: the customers' sites in the village of Tarnava are powered by electricity from 10 transformer posts, powered by the electricity pipeline, by Byala Slatina substation. From the reference to the electronic logs of the specialized dispatch unit of the specialized dispatching unit of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria (SSC) for the period quoted by you, including from 3 October 2022 to 3 April 2022, it is established that 37 unplanned interruptions at low voltage level, 33 average voltage level and 10 planned interruptions at average voltage level were recorded for the village of Tarnava. The power supply interruptions of those indicated in the letter dated 23 February 2022, 12 and 13 March are due to transient failures in the distribution network, and the power outage on 15 March of 4 hours duration is due to manipulation of planned repairs by the power system operator in particular at the Byala Slatina substation. In relation to the planned activities carried out by the company, the distribution company also performed operational switchings in order to ensure the supply of customers in the area. The following events are carried out to minimise the current-free breaks in the region of the village of Turnava according to the data of the electricity distribution company and in the execution of the licence obligations: - In 2022 on the electricity line, the Scott changed 19 pieces of poles; - In October 2021 the prevention of transformer posts was carried out; - Symmetry of the loads on the network has been carried out; - Bridge connections have been revised; - The replacement of existing wires with twisted insulated wires has been carried out, after which they are newly regulated; - Additional groundings are placed on the terminals and transformers; - a low voltage network has been castrated in the waiting area; - 50 sets of diverters, moving plates with reflector coating, suspended on the air electricity lines, etc. are installed.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - 10 remote controls on the air lines are installed to limit power outages due to strong winds; - An additional repair has been carried out and the waterproofing of Trafopost No 14 has been restored in the village of Tarnava itself. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural The project is implemented in accordance with the Law on Construction in the Area after the entry into force of a building permit issued by the respective municipal administration. To conclude, I would like to inform you that in relation to the signal contained in your letter on the basis of art. 75, para. 1, t. 1 of the Energy Act I have ordered the control bodies of the Ministry of Energy to carry out an extraordinary inspection of the technical condition and operation of the electricity outlets of the locality. The deadline for carrying out the verification expires today, on 15 April, and a protocol will be drawn up for it in accordance with the requirements of the Energy Act and I will inform you further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u211	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Would you like a line? Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I am pleased with the answer to that question. I hope that the people of Tarnava City have seen this answer and remain satisfied and I believe that from now on there will be no problem with electricity and the quality of the energy supplied. If this thing happens by accident, whether it's a minimal or temporary interruption, which could cause damage, we'll eventually be notified both of you, and maybe I'll invite you to go to a place where we can inform ourselves of what's going on in spite of your perhaps tense program. Thanks again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u213	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Would you like a doppelganger? No. By thanking you for your participation, Minister, in today's parliamentary control. We move on to a question to the Minister of Youth and Sports Radostin Vassilev. The issue is from the National Representative Dimitar Nikolov on financing, organizing and holding of student sports games in 2022. You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members! Student competitions and sports games over the years have shown their fundamental role in the development of Bulgarian sport, and have proven to be one of the most effective youth policies. Personally, as chairman of the Permanent Committee on Youth and Sports at the Municipal Council, I have touched this emotion of young people and their coaches. Student sport is prevention of aggression, forms a complex of qualities among young people, builds, above all, personalities. For decades Bulgaria has its established traditions and numerous international successes in school sports. However, school games in Bulgaria have not been held since 2019 and one of the reasons is also the pandemic situation. As far as I know, however, the real reason lies in a judicial dispute between your ministry and the Bulgarian Association for Student Sports, which is one of the main organizers of national student games. My question is as follows: are there funds and will be held in school sports games in 2022?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u215	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Nikolov! In response to this question, I state the following information: student games are really part of the measures to implement the priorities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports to encourage students to exercise, develop and improve sports and technical skills, create conditions for development of individual abilities and motivation for sport improvement, the selection of sports talents and the creation of opportunities for students in the field of sport both at national and international level, including participation in world student championships. The school games are the most massive and significant national sport event for students included in the National Sports calendar of the Ministry of Education and Science. I myself have been involved in them for a long time while they took place and I was a student. The competitions from school games for students from 5th to 12th grade are held for students from three age groups from 5th to 7th grade, from 8th to 10th grade and for 11th and 12th grade, in gender and disciplines from 8 sports and in 4 stages: internal school and municipal, district, zone and final. The program includes sports athletics, volleyball, basketball, handball, football, badminton, table tennis and chess. Currently the organizers of the school games are the schools, municipalities, Bulgarian Association "Sport for Students" "BASU," and its members sports clubs for students, as well as funding and coordination are implemented by the Ministry of Education, including through the regional managements of the education "RUO," the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Municipalities. In the 4 stages of the games are covered approximately 90 thousand. students. The budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports provides annually financial means for organizing and holding a second district, third zone and fourth final stage of student games for students from 5 to 12 grade. In the last 5 years of the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport, funds of 508 thousand have been provided. BGN per year for organizing and holding school games from 5 to 12 grade. During the current 2021 school year, total funds of 621 thousand have been provided. lv. Traditionally the main partner of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in organizing and holding the competitions of student games is BASU. For the 2019 academic year, a contract was not concluded with BASU in order to organise competitions from the district, zone and final stage of the games due to the pandemic you mentioned and the emergency situation. The periodic imposition of restrictive measures prevented and partially held games with an approximate range of 60 thousand. students for 2019 " 2020" and 35 thousand. students for 2021 the epidemiological situation in the country is the reason the school games are not fully realized during this school year. With the suspension of these measures from 1 April and with the provisions for organizing and holding of the games, municipal administrations may, at their own discretion, extend the period for the first stage of internal and municipal competitions until the end of the academic year 2021. Failure to perform during the competitions of the most massive first stage of the school games is the reason for the next stages funded by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Currently, BASU has outstanding financial obligations to the Ministry of Youth and Sports under previous contracts, which I have found as a minister whose execution period has expired, a total of 41 thousand. BGN 533. and 91 C.E. In this regard, the Ministry has brought a judgment suit against BASU and civil case No 10-807 has been initiated since 2021 on a civil ward, 1-18 members, according to the Sofia City Court's description for the reimbursement of this amount. So far, no decision has been taken by the Ministry of Youth and Sports in this case. In this regard, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, assessing the role of the largest event in the field of sport for students to provide support for children and young people for their harmonious development and positive life realization, takes action to ensure the organization and implementation of school games. But until the Basu's obligation is paid or agreed, we cannot finance them with the budget provided for by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The initiative is usually in the sports federation or sports organization to resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u217	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am partly satisfied with the answer because definitely the funds for school games are increased by the information that has been released, but it will be difficult to explain to the children, their coaches and educators that it is a judicial dispute and an outstanding amount hinders the realization of school games in full. And I would like to thank you personally from my electoral district, Gorna Oryahovitsa and Veliko Tarnovo, for making a request for a new sports hall after winning Bulgaria's Cup by the Handball Club Gorna Oryahovitsa in men. I really think this region has needed new sports facilities a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u219	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. A hole? No. Thank you, Mr. Vassilev, for participating in today's parliamentary control. And now we move on to the questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Boyko Rashkov. The first question is from the MP Halil Letifov on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I ask another question about harassment and police pressure during the election campaign in July and November 2021. This is one of another cases that we intend not to be just statistics in the vaults and in the media publications, because every single case is fate, depraved dignity and honor, and a very large part of these cases actually remember some denied, dark times for which we have fought to be changed, forgotten and never again admitted. The specific case is with Mr. Ahmed Hoxha, who is the mayor of the village of Turnichene in the municipality of Pavel Banya, who is also called to sign protocols. We are interested in what is the data and the charges against him to be called upon and to sign a protocol, given that this man is once again the mayor of this village, remembers these shameful times that I mentioned, but he does not remember in these 32 years of democracy other similar events and he is another person who asks where we are going back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u221	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To the question directly.. pressure and harassment. There is no such data in the Ministry of Interior. I appeal to those who have similar powers to provide them, and to the prosecution, and she calls on investigators from the relevant district investigation services. This is the order in our law, so please act in accordance with the Law. Otherwise, participation here, from this tribune, with constant repetition that someone is turning the country back, using expressions like dark times and the like has nothing to do with reality. What happens in relation to and during the elections is an activity that is described in the Law. If any of those inquirers appeal not to comply with the Law, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall not exercise their powers specified in the Law, so as not to disclose crimes under Chapter III of the special part of the Penal Code relating to the purchase and sale of votes, let them say it aloud. With such mantras that someone had indeed violated citizens' rights, I would not agree. As far as specific concerns are concerned, and I am going to run out of information from the State Agency for National Security in order to proceed to a warning protocol there regarding this person on the grounds of law. The legal basis is written in art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Personally, I see absolutely no violation in this case. So please, let us respect the Law, not to make voluntary and only political interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u223	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another case with another, what to call it, a political attitude by the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior, which, notice, honourable Members, is the guardian of the Law, of the rule of law, of human rights and freedoms, which are guaranteed by the Law. Under the mantra, I repeat once again, in the fight against the bought vote, against crime, which must be fought indisputably, and those who have violated yes, Chapter 3 says what is happening to them, but those who have not broken and entered under the object of this Chapter 3 are in fact already having violated rights. Because for those 20,000 cases, we have seen several dozens that have reached the relevant authorities with some data that must be pronounced for these crimes. The rest is a cover behind the mantra with the fight against the bought vote to violate the rights of one part of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u225	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I fully understand the situation in which some political parties in our country have fallen to justify themselves after having committed dozens of cases, attempts, actions related to the crime of buying and selling votes last year and not only last year. There's one case today, and I really want to get to it so we can go back about four or five years. Let's say what happened then, as some of the viewers of television may be under the impression that almost in our country only in 2021 were committed such crimes, as the Minister of Interior is Mr. Boyko Rashkov. He's guilty of having dozens of cases filed for the crime of buying and selling votes. There's nothing else. Yes, it is true at the moment, as the statistics are already being filled in with the in force sentences against and about such crimes, it becomes a little uncomfortable to say that there are none. Yes, it is true that they are not many, as it is a relevant form of political corruption. Some give the money to citizens who go into the fire with their head and then stand on the stand, and one went to Haskovo to pat on the shoulder and hug people we had arrested there last year during elections caught in buying and selling votes. It was in the interest of this party where her leader went there to hug and kiss. To talk to the media about how bad the minister is, and he, who is good, is probably he or someone like him has given these funds to these people. They can't get out of their pockets and out of their accounts 200, 300, 500 thousand. lv. So we can't prove all the cases here either. Indeed, this is because it is very difficult, as with bribery, when both parties are interested, to prove such acts. This is known to all practitioners from the guild, from the Master's degree, including, of course, the employees of the Ministry of Interior. This does not mean that we will leave the fight against the bought vote, which was not invented by the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u228	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u229	Here you are, Mr. Letifov. I will be very patient with you today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will ask you, when a representative of the Council of Ministers, who, under the Bulgarian Constitution, the laws and regulations, is obliged to provide his requested information to the MPs, not to allow him, in addition to the time allowed by the Rules, to make suggestions, political statements and once again to stick labels to a political party and to try again to involve all employees of the Ministry of Interior. No, we didn't say that. There are decent employees there. We have heard from them that they are ashamed of the pressure they feel. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u231	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u232	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u233	Colleagues, you have 50 questions in which you can say these things. Why should you abuse the procedure? Okay, if it's the same procedure, I'll interrupt it. Come in the manner of conduct. If you say the same thing as Mr. Letifov, I'll turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u234	Don't say anything in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u235	I don't pronounce myself in advance. I give him my word. Don't engage in dialogue with me. There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u236	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u237	Your problem is with the minister, not the chairman of the meeting, and please comply with this. That's what it looks like. You have the floor, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you and it is only in the manner of conduct. You should have interrupted Mr. Minister when he was making suggestions about the campaign in Haskovo District, because I do not know who this chairman was, who, in obvious evidence, was buying votes, the Minister did not react. With this suggestion, since I am a member of Haskovo, I think it is sticking ethics to all members of Haskovo region. I therefore ask, when it comes to such accusations, that the Minister be specific and name specific names, because this label is attached to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u239	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. You don't know what I'm talking about. I don't know exactly what happened in Haskovo. Please, Minister, decide if you need to speak with names to make it clear to your colleagues at the DSS. Can we get to the next question now? Mr. Chakarov, you are welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashkov, in the village of Bistra, Alfatar Municipality, Silistra District, from which I was elected as MP, during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July last year of Mr. Ibram Ibram Ibryam, municipal councillor and municipal chairman of the youth DPS, was presented a warning protocol by police authorities under the Ministry of Interior Act. A protocol shall be drawn up by a specific composition of the Criminal Code. The report in question by the police authorities states that it was drawn up on the basis of sufficient evidence without stating what they were and without a specific legal basis. In this regard, my question is specific: within the meaning of which member of the Penal Code is Ibram Ibram's warning protocol drawn up? I will ask for a more specific answer, both without suggestion and without a verdict, and without such guidance from the MPs, the whole public, in legal matters. There's lawyers, there's lawyers. Therefore, if necessary, if any of us are not, we could consult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the question................................................................... The issue concerns action and pressure, harassment by the Ministry of Interior too. Someone just asked for the specific in my response. I, too, want the particulars of what harassment and pressure are expressed so that I can respond, of course. You do not give any specifics because you have made questions of a Xerox with the same question: pressure and harassment, and you say nothing more. What data are you stepping on to claim pressure and harassment? What did pressure and harassment express? Naturally, you ask and on what legal basis is drawn up, if drawn up, a report. The legal basis has highlighted it many times. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, i.e. the legal basis exists. There is also a factual basis. In this case, operational data have been available, including I would like to emphasise this, and from previous electoral processes that are already in the past, including the preparation of the 11 July elections, that this citizen you are asking me about has reason to assume that he will participate in an illegal activity in the Law relating to the preparation and conduct of the elections. Hence the conclusion that a crime would be committed in the circle of so-called crimes against the political rights of Bulgarian citizens. This person you're asking me about is being explained to what the warning is, that is to say, the rights are explained to him in connection with the protocol. I could not understand, as the protocol is drawn up in a single specimen again the stronger of art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act, where do you draw the other conclusions regarding this same protocol, which by definition you cannot possess? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chakarov, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Rashkov, colleagues! My question was on what legal basis was called and the warning protocol drawn up? Such protocols were made and drawn up, and people were forced to sign tens of thousands. Do we realize in an election situation what this means in terms of the asset working for the elections? What you are saying, Mr. Rashkov, here from the stands of the National Assembly these are not the answers to the questions we ask. You'd rather not give sentences from here. You are announcing information and data that should be confirmed, but from the mouth of an interior minister this does not in any way fit to be expressed in this way. Do you realize how much pressure is being created among those people who have become involved in the election campaign? Are you sure that the ultimate goal is not to have a reflection of election results? Can you argue, because it leaves another impression that political forces are being dealt with differently? From what we hear here, almost just one single political force is in such a respect with reproach that it performs one or another activity. Furthermore, for criteria for indicators of work done in the internal affairs system is all that has been done, at what stage is it moving? Because you transferred us to the D.A.'s office to search for information at the next stage. To most of your answers, you point out that there is no pre-trial procedure created to follow. My additional question is: how many of these signals and signed warning protocols have come to court. In a court of law, how many cases have been finalized with charges? There is a case in Silistra County that we know with my colleague, who is a MP from there, and he is on a signal that we have filed, and he was actually caught. So we are not against what the employees of the Ministry of Interior have to do. We have to take a differentiated approach and say... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. We must say that there are many conscientious employees in the internal affairs system, and they are doing their job as should be done. However, it is under the impression that there is a truly differentiated approach, and that is what people, when I go around the regions, share it and look at parliamentary control in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u245	Your time, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u246	I hope we get an answer. And really in terms of indicators to get: what is the success rate? We really need to fight the buying and selling of votes. This is a scourge for democracy and a negative, so we are for this as a political force, saying it out loud here from the high tribune of the National Assembly, but there must be a correct objective approach to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? No. We continue with the next issue by the MP Yordan Tsonev on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. To warn you that parliamentary control will continue until 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you pointed out, my question concerns the election campaign for the elections on 11 July 2021, when in the town of Kilifarevo, Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, Veliko Tarnovo District, a search of the home of Mr. Sunaj Munkov was carried out and a member of the Municipal Council of DPS Veliko Tarnovo. Of course, the issue is the intention to examine these specific cases that we have been talking about. On what legal basis and on which pre-trial proceedings the said search has been carried out or if there is any other reason, has the prosecution been informed of the search carried out and what further action on the case described? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u249	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u250	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, the issue is identical, of course, only names have been changed here for pressure and harassment. I must say that for such pressure, such harassment data in the Ministry of Interior does not exist and therefore remains an opportunity for the person holding such information to provide it according to the competence of the relevant authority. And since I have heard several times how the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who are conscientious, which I share, are we in this way, announcing them here from the platform of parliament, that they are exerting illegal pressure and harassment on Bulgarian citizens, do we care and watch over their authority? This political hypocrisy is slightly out of line in my opinion. As far as the case is concerned. The specific case refers to Veliko Tarnovo, where primary information relating to a crime under art. 162, para. 2 of the Penal Code. That information entered the police station in question. The district attorney's office has been informed, nothing has been done outside the Law and outside the supervision and control of the district attorney's office. For this purpose, these materials are registered in both the police department and the prosecutor's office, and in any case when data on a criminal offence is reported. There's nothing out of the ordinary here. What is unusual is only in what we hear all the time, in an attempt to make some policy that DPS activists have been tested, called, and a corresponding protocol has been drawn up by law. This is what is particularly important in the case that it is a representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. However, let's take into account both the representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and their members and sympathizers and every Bulgarian citizen, if they participate in an activity for which information is obtained and which is illegal, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior are obliged to take appropriate treatment. We in the Ministry of Interior do not divide citizens into those who support the Movement for Rights and Freedoms or any other political party. As far as the person was concerned, as I have already pointed out, last year during the election campaign or on election day, data on empathy for the activities of buying and selling votes. This is why these materials are registered in the respective district police department and in the respective district prosecutor's office for nothing else. For all actions taken by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior during that period, appropriate protocols are drawn up, which is routine for the activities of these state authorities. If someone wants to stop them from doing this work, they won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u251	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u252	Nowhere, Mr. Chairman, in my question, I have not spoken of pressure and harassment. I don't know where the Minister came up with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u253	That's the title of all the questions that he means.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u254	The titles are titles, I asked a specific question. I have received a specific answer, which I expected to receive, that a search is being carried out on an alert. Again on an alert elsewhere, the signing of a protocol shall be carried out. Once again, what do you do? I had a chance to say it last time, and now I'm gonna say it. Everyone knows, there are no suckers in this room, how to give these signals. And when there's nothing found, because that's what this case is, and thousands of others are, what's left of the whole thing? We are trying to explain that not every signal leads to a search, not every signal leads to a warning protocol, not every signal is authentic. Not to mention that we know perfectly well about the practice of inspiring signals. That's what this debate is about and so many questions. If you see them as a Xerox, it seems to us that your actions are on a Xerox, and they do not honor an institution that is really called to maintain public order, to protect it by not using the powers, but as the minister has decided, because it is obvious that one thing can be done otherwise. And the last time I said it, and now I'm saying it again, and I'm trying to be well-meaning and well-to-do with no obsession with greatness. When you have 20,000 such cases and 200 of them have reached court, you have little to think about whether the signals have been authentic, whether it is the work of competitive political forces or others, others and so on and so forth. It's just that this whole thing is so embarrassing that I can't say it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u255	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Would you like the word for the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u256	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I think we should at least go on to clarify the word deviously. What's the smelly part? [[Heckling]] Is it the naked statements or the specific data I'm pointing at? And what Mr. Tsonev just said is not true because this is how Mr. Tsonev's question begins. The issue is from Yordan Tsonev on the basis of the Constitution on actions for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign. That is the question, and this issue is Xerox policy at the moment of parliamentary control. And now I'm going to say something in particular, and I'm going to read you. So whether he said it or not, Mr. Tsonev didn't say it was bullying and bullying, it's clear from the question. Secondly, the specific answers I gave say: we all know how to inspirate signals. Now I'm gonna read you something, because that's what they wanted. According to the data acquired on the upcoming parliamentary elections, it says there, the activists of the parliamentary group DPS were preparing to build a scheme to distribute funds to individuals in order to motivate them to vote for the political party they represent. The financial resources would be offered even to individuals known to be sympathizers in order to ensure that they exercise their right to vote. According to the information acquired, funds would be provided to managers in quotes in different regions, which in turn would organise the achievement of the funds to the specific voters. Information of an identical nature was also received in the Directorate of Homeland Security of the Ministry of Interior. And I will not say who was in charge with the name Mr. Tsonev asked in the region to which I am trying to clarify. I've saved up a few things so far, but they seem to really want the specific. I will give such a specific when I decide that this must be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u257	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor for a reply.]] Mr. Tsonev, there's lines, dots, I don't think that's necessary. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Okay, come on in the way you're supposed to be, but know that I didn't break anything, okay? Now I'm making a violation by giving you my word. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If we go deeper, maybe we can find a reason to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u259	Well, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u260	Let's not do this, I'll be robbed enough. That's exactly the kind of signal we're talking about. Thank you so much for reading the signal. That's exactly the kind of signal we're talking about, they're also made on a copier. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u261	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. That was a replica of the back. What's his name? Triplica. There are many more questions in which you will be able to say this thing or your colleagues. We're missing the question of Mr. Erjan Ebatin, who informed us that he was absent, and we're moving on to a question from Fatme Ramadan. Here you are, Mrs. Ramadan, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u262	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, on July 10, 2021 in the city of Aitos, Burgas District, Mr. Alihan Kambur, member of the District Council of the Youth DPS, Burgas, was called to the Regional Department of Aytos, for giving out agitative materials on July 8, 2021, and on the same date a protocol was drawn up for this. He was also called by a voter training inspector using a tablet with a machine voting simulator on 7 July 2021. A routine check was carried out on the day of his election in the village of Black Mound. In this regard, my question to you is: on what legal basis has he been called to regional management.................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ramadan, you are asking me a question that has been answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u264	Wait now, perhaps Mrs. Ramadan is entitled to a reply to that answer. Perhaps you should have explained when it was answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u265	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, to us young MPs you give us a very bad example of how Bulgaria should not have such an interior minister. We MPs represent the public, and I understand from your irresponsibility that there is nothing to answer to this young boy. From the very beginning, you've allowed yourself to lecture us in law school. I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a chemist, and I can lecture you, for example, on alcoholic fermentation. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u266	Mrs. Ramadan... Yes, I'll give you the floor for the duvet, but there must be some boundaries here in Parliament. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait, when we finish the procedure, you will get the floor on this, but I really ask that we follow some decent tone in parliament. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u267	Dear Mr. Chairman, yes, indeed here the young man is trying to jump some barrier, something he shouldn't afford. I don't know where he learned that, and maybe he needs to learn more, and not just chemistry, but something else to learn. Maybe you should send her to the Ministry of Culture to grind a little bit. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u268	Colleagues, the minister sees that he's holding...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u269	And the second, which is very important for young people not only, but also for others, cannot just two months ago be asked the same question, on March 18th is answered this question, and it is answered this question, which was posed by the leader of the DPS Mr. Karadayi. Today the same question cannot be put to me by the young man, the chemist, and my answer can be used that one question cannot be carried out parliamentary control of one minister, of the same question, only put in a slightly different way. So, please, when you are trying to offend someone's honor, including mine, keep in mind that your behavior is not perfect and you have no reason for my response to behave this way. Young man, my respects, but have respect for my white hair. This is education and this is culture, and it must also be a political culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u270	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now I've asked them to check in the archive whether a specific person has been asked. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and I agree with you that we have no theme with you. But you, as chairman, remind the Minister that so far what he has said has struck only one thing... that he is in a parliamentary control procedure. Nothing else hit. In the procedure of parliamentary control he has, of course, his right, he is the political leadership, the Minister of the Ministry of Interior, he has the right to his political statements, but not here and not in this procedure, where he under Constitution and under our Rules is obliged to provide information to the MPs. And check, as you said, Mr. Chairman, that this question is not answered and he is wrong. And we have respect for his gray hair. We wish him many years of health, but he should also have respect for his white hair. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u272	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. In principle, when submitting the question, if it has been repeated, it should not be accepted. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] No, no, I'm just saying. We will check, if there are any other such questions, Mr. Minister, I will ask you, however, if it is answered, answer a second time better, so we can save ourselves this exchange of lines. Here you are, Minister, briefly inform, as I also gave the floor in the manner of conduct you are entitled.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u273	Here's what I answered a while ago about Karadaye's question. It's about the same faces. The same people who come from the same village. It's about Reyhan Kambour. In one answer, both in the other answer and in one reference from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior refers to this person and the other. However, when the verification has been carried out, the information received concerns another person. This information has been corrected in the verification process and has been directed precisely to the person you are asking me about today. And on this subject, the person you're asking me about today is responsible on March 18th this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask my colleagues to check the transcript, and so we'll certainly know exactly what happened on March 18th. Mrs. Ramadan has another question for you, which is probably not answered. You have the floor, Ramadan Hanım.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister! On July 8, 2021 in the village of Karageorgievo, Aytos Municipality, Burgas District, Mr. Aynur Hajrula, who is an activist of the DPS, there is a written protocol that distributes agitative materials and trains voters using a tablet with a machine voting simulator. In this regard, my question to you is: on what legal basis and what is the presence of sufficient data to draw up a warning protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u276	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! So they got carried away with some, that by writing the same thing in the questions, even adding fictions and how to answer it now. First of all, I will answer that pressure and harassment, as this is how this question is started and this question is not exercised and there is no such data, but if Mrs. Fatme Ramadan has them, please send them. I will refer her as a chemist, I agree, does not know the procedure, to the prosecution, which will send them to the investigating authorities, as they are competent, that is one thing I can say. Secondly, there is no specific in the question and there are other actions that have been carried out, but they are not the subject of the question again, because parliamentary control is Xeroxic and there is no insight into the situation. There is no real protection of the rights and interests of citizens, if they are affected, there is an imitation of such behaviour here from this tribune, because of this person you ask me about, no warning protocol has been drawn up at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ramadan, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u279	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, once again, I don't get an answer to my question. Who is responsible for the illegal activities of your employees during the election campaign in Aytos Municipality? If it's not you, why are you even taking this position? The fact that a young person has engaged and trained voters using a tablet with a machine voting simulator is clear to us all that the turnout in Bulgaria is 30%. I mean, they have to be trained by these people. Do you ask yourself such questions, or are you not interested? There's nothing more to get into, it's clear that there's nothing to answer to this young man because I'm not getting an answer from you. Just to warn you that those times have passed with pressure and repression to frighten people, because, Mr. Minister, the laws of nature do not allow us to find ourselves in the same place at different times. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u280	Thank you, Ramadan Hanım. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. In the meantime, let me just say we figured out how this happened. It's really about the same face. The question is asked by both Mrs. Ramadan and Mr. Karadayi. In the meantime, however, it has already been answered to Mr. Karadayi, but perhaps you could not have known because the two questions were submitted on the same day. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is with you and it is entirely in the manner of conduct, so because you have allowed here from this tribune of the Interior Minister to speak factually inaccuracies, because an answer for those for whom Mrs. Fatme Ramadan has asked a question, has not been answered here by this parliamentary tribune. Dear President, let me remind you that on 3 December last year on the first plenary day of the forty-seventh Parliament, we all took an oath together that we would respect the Constitution and the laws of the country. And this also applies to you, although you are Vice-President of Parliament, and that is why, in order to find out whether there is really a written protocol or not of the persons in question, for whom the issue of this tribune was raised, we raised a question to the Interior Minister on 18 February through the President of the National Assembly. Since then, nearly two months have passed, a request for written answers for all these cases, i.e. 50 specific cases. And these cases are exactly described in these 50 specific cases. Since then two months have passed, follow the Rules, follow the Constitution, because you have turned into a national sport non-compliance with the Rules and Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u282	Thank you, Mr. Ali. I'm not very aware of the whole chronology of this. I will also have to take care of it, because in principle Mr. Minchev dealt with this issue, as you know, with your questions and those of Mr. Karadayi. But I'm making a commitment, and just in case, I'll get all the information and I'll give you an answer next week. Surely, if there was a mistake in factology somewhere, it wasn't intentional. Mr. Krastev and Mr. Enchev reported... [[Heckling]] Wait, that's what I've been told. A question from Mr. Enchev then, since he's here. Here you go. I don't know why they marked it for me. Maybe they expected you wouldn't be able to come back if you were somewhere. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Rashkov! To tell these three campaigns that I've conducted, why in these so-called Xerox questions we've been using..................... and............................................................... All the time the campaigns were entered into the homes of the people under the pretext, quite naturally legal, on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act, where the authorities of the police were pouring a few cars in front of their homes and it was said to be working on a signal. On the signal, as long as it is used by art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) Now, which crime is serious, Mr. Rashkov knows better than I do. Then what turned out to be neither the text nor the specific crime was known. It's called buying votes, but who buys, what buys, who buys, is there such a thing, from whom is the signal? There's no such thing! They'd go into people's homes, they'd search them, their personal belongings would be scattered around their homes and their backyards, and people would leave after that and leave some troubled and insulted people, Mr. Rashkov. My specific question is: on July 10, 2021 in the village of Malorad, Borovan municipality, a search was carried out at the home of Mrs. Borislava Stoykova, there she lives with her mother. I'm curious to know what the signal was, what crime? Because, as you know, according to art. 170 of the Penal Code, which entered into another's dwelling, by abuse of authority, is punished. Accordingly, those who accuse a proper authority of authority of a crime are also punished. My question is in this direction, I want to know who, on what basis, why, on what date, for what crime have they entered this man's homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u284	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think parliamentary ethics requires someone here to come out and say, yes, there was some kind of coincidence in the questions that were raised a month ago, and now we blamed the minister for not wanting to answer the question that we apologize for. This would also be very correct for viewers who monitor the parliamentary control-xerox. On the subject of Xerox control. Again... [[DPS lines.]] No, this time I'm gonna use some details because it's interesting. Here is the question again in the parliamentary control, in the history of Bulgaria - Xerox, copy. National Representative Tsvetan Enchev on action for pressure and harassment by the Ministry of Interior during one-what you are and the same questions. They're looking for lists, on what grounds? I'll read to you on what grounds. First of all, about the harassment, let me say again. I will repeat it until someone finds out that there are laws in Bulgaria and they must be respected both by the Ministry of Interior, which is subject to criticism in my face now and by all MPs, as they are citizens of this country, and by all other Bulgarian citizens who are not MPs. So in terms of actions for pressure and harassment, there are no such persons who have been admitted to the Ministry of Interior. On the contrary, for the particular case you are asking me right now, there is a factology, so if you have evidence of pressure and harassment, please contact a competent Bulgarian authority. This is democracy, this is legality, and this is the rule of law. The rest is political participation here from the platform of parliament to see our sympathizers, for example, how active we are and how we defend them here from the stands by no means at all. [[DPS lines.]] On 10 July, an alert was issued by a relevant employee and a file was filed No 248 and so on, not to read the numbers, according to the description of the District Department of Byala Slatina, and No 3679 from last year according to the description of the District Prosecution Office of Vratsa, District Department of Byala Slatina. This is not a Xerox, everyone else understands that it is not a Xerox because it is a specific case, which is contained in documents in the police and in the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. There are methodical guidelines of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and they are those who direct both prosecutors and investigative bodies in our country what to take when receiving signals in connection with the electoral process. The case that is being asked at the moment is practically clarified in full compliance with these methodological guidelines of the Prosecutor General of the Republic. Once the alert has been received, I repeat, these instructions of the Prosecutor General have taken action to check and clarify the signal submitted. Persons have been identified, so far, four people, and a check has been carried out at the home of some of these persons. There is a protocol for the purpose, which is in full compliance with the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. When entering a home to take investigative action, this must happen, otherwise we are faced with a violation of the Law, not when we draw up a protocol. And when some MPs blame here that when a protocol is drawn up, it is a violation of the rights and so on, it is the exact opposite of the drafting of a protocol is what corresponds to the Law, and it can be concluded whether the actions are legal or not. The other is political talk here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u286	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Enchev, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u287	Mr. Rashkov, breaking into people's homes is harassment, breaking into people's homes without legal basis, it's harassment again. Art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and I never found out what crime you were breaking into that lady's house for. And I told you again why I asked you. I'm gonna ask you one more time: on what grounds do you go in there? You know what crime is hard and I'll read you once again. 170: The person who entered a foreign home, using this authority, threatening, cunning, cunning, abuse of power... Next, Art. 286: The person in front of a proper authority has accused someone of a crime... What did you find when you entered these people's home?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u288	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u289	Unfortunately, Mr President and honourable Members, I am forced to take account of absolutely chaotic statements that have nothing to do with legal norms. It mixes incriminating with entering homes in a completely different direction and does not want to see what happened there. For example, the information that she entered the police department and the prosecutor's office is related to the activities that were involved, the information suggests this: intention to participate illegally in the electoral process. That's what this is about. And that is why the home of these people has been visited, where I would like to tell you that the verification has actually drawn up a protocol and has a number of this protocol. There is no hiding what has been done because the factual grounds that were in place to take this action were present and no one is worried about this fact. Even less will someone be worried about a similar way of putting a question in plenary. In addition, since items of interest to the case were found at home, 16 copies of I.D. sheets. Very interesting why are these copies of IDs in the election period, for example?! Multiple other documents with personal data of persons, notes and writings. I wonder why such items and items are found in this house in the election process? Very interesting! And for the established documents, notice, a protocol has been drawn up for the voluntary handover of the person with the number one-who, as I have already said. That is, there is nothing that has happened contrary to the will of the persons who dwell in this house. But even if they did mind, in the presence of evidence of a crime, the action is carried out despite the will of the person, and that is known to everyone. Indeed, in relation to all that has been received as information, information has also been taken from the neighbours of these persons. From neighbors to be able to clarify the factual situation. I don't want to get into the details. Here I have several pages written, but I seem to have to read them all in order to make it clear to those who are following this parliamentary control today, what is it about and what questions are being put here in plenary and is wasting plenary time, so it is drawn up, yes, indeed, in these findings there warning protocol, but it is on the basis of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u290	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u291	I'm done, just one sentence, Mr. Chairman. And the materials were sent to pronounce the respective district attorney's office, which was competent to answer these questions. And the Minister of Interior has yet, and once again I will stress, is not competent to answer such questions. It is not competent because this is the activity of the independent judiciary, but here the so-called democratic MPs from 30 years ago and over have not yet understood it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u292	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman, at the present place Minister of Interior Boyko Iliev Rashkov may remind him of the words of the fox of the Little Prince. Language is a source of misunderstanding. [[Reply from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Mr. Chairman, that face that's standing there...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u294	Not like that, Mr. Anastasov, we don't need to get nervous. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u295	No, don't get nervous, I'm quite systematic, Mr. Chairman, you don't get nervous. [[Reply from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Please note how he has just described in detail the mechanism of pressure and harassment you are going on a visit, writing a note of gratitude for the visit, then going around the neighbors, and visiting them to shame the face in front of the local community. I'll describe another mechanism to you. You're looking for a 20-year-old party activist, you're looking for his parents at the workplace under the assumption that you're looking for activists again, yes. [[Reply from Minister Boyko Rashkov.]] Mr. Chairman, now that you know very well, I ask the Minister, after all, he is the executive, not to give you any sense of how to do your job...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u296	Basically, what you do is a little outside the procedure, you know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u297	Mr. Vigenin, when we talk about pressure and harassment, I know that you have international experience, I want you to remind him that PACE is currently discussing a convention against police violence and there is a fundamental principle, Mr. Vigenin, there is no way for the victim to complain about the abuser's abuser. It's an absolute nonsense and it's an archivist totalitarian thinking. This is currently "Boyko Iliev Rashkov," with international practices. Speaking of which...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u298	Mr. Anastasov, you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u299	No, I'm not making a statement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u300	That's what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u301	For the second week in a row after Amnesty International's report, Mr. Chairman, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u302	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u303	Boyko Iliev Rashkov glorified us in the State Department report on the state of human rights in Bulgaria. So speaking of ethics, Minister, speaking of ethics, you know what ethics requires...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u304	Mr. Anastasov, I'll take your word for it now. [[Reply from DPS: Why didn't you take it away, and now you will take it away?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u305	And the Prime Minister knows what ethics require, he doesn't have the guts, and he'll hold you to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u306	Enough, Mr. Anastasov, you know very well that you have broken the procedure completely.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u307	And you know, Mr. Chairman, but apparently he's your boss.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u308	Keep a little good tone, keep your nerves, do things that just aren't right and know it well. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u309	Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I would like to ask you for your part to contact Minister Rashkov, because for another week we are listening to identical cases of a Xerox, as he pointed out, he responds in the same way to absolutely all cases. A moment ago he mentioned that there were several pages of concrete evidence on the case in question and because, at least for this case, to read about what it was about, he mentioned a number of copied cards - ID cards, let's get to know what exactly, and the Bulgarian society to hear about why these people were searched, what happened. Either way, there are the documents, let's read them so everyone can hear and we can hear in this room anyway, only the DPS group is here, no one else respects parliamentary control, I apologize, and Georgi Ganev is here...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u310	Well, I'm BSP, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u311	Yeah. I ask you very much to ask Minister Rashkov to come here and read about all the violations that have been found on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u312	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. I'm not convinced that I can do this thing because I don't know how much this information can be shared publicly, it's probably also about names inside, but let's be sure in one of the following answers, if there is such information, you can provide it, Mr. Rashkov, do it for the next. We're moving on to a question from MP Guner Ahmed. Here you go, Mr. Ahmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you've only got 15 minutes left for today. Let's calm down a little bit. I'm not gonna read the hat to the question so we don't have to deal with it. To the specific issue, Mr. Bahar Mehmed Shefked, who is the local chairman of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms, has signed a warning protocol during the election campaign for the parliamentary elections on 11 July 2021. Mr. Bahar Mehmed Shefked, who is the local chairman of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has signed a warning protocol, and what is slightly different in this case is that this is my home village. I was born there, I lived there, and I still live there once in a while. The same day that I remember was Friday afternoon, I went through my village to see my friends, and as we talked to the mayor of the village, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior called and asked him if two persons were in the village. He said: "Yes, they are here. " On the phone they told him to call them to the center of the village, where there were perhaps over ten people. After the authorities of the Ministry of Interior came, they were prepared with written protocols and personally before me and in my presence wanted the face of Bahar Mehmed Shefked to sign a warning protocol, remembering that it was not to agitate, or... I have no other memories of it. My question specifically about the case is that I want a specific answer. Because you're quoting art. 65, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act, not only have you read the NK and the PPC, you use this article so that it is hardly legal and should apply to any person. There it is explicitly stated that the person is warned by a warning report when there is sufficient evidence that he will commit a crime or a violation and there is sufficient evidence to do so. In the present case: what are the written evidence, is there any signals against this person, is there any case files or reports of the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u314	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u315	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I answer identical questions. There was no harassment and pressure by the Ministry of Interior during the election campaign and on election day. If there is such data anywhere, please provide it to the competent state authority. This is not the Minister of the Interior. We have some information on this, and I'm going to introduce you to some of it now. In the entire country last year during the elections and before them, of course, joint specialized police operations were conducted. I remind you not of anything else, but of this, because of the caretaker government one of the main tasks of its formation and existence, this is to ensure that fair, transparent elections are held in our country. I would like to remind you that only some political parties do not approve of what the Ministry of Interior did to stop the criminal vote, the criminal vote in our country last year. Since it just started again with conventions, there is a specialist in conventions where he reads the headlines all the time. I would like to say that in these reports and international materials, which have been known for two weeks already to our public, it is explicitly stressed that the Ministry of Interior has stopped this criminal vote, it is no longer in that volume it was. [[Reply from DPS: "It's not true! "]] So this positive, which is also reported by external observers, is denied even at the moment by representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] We all know that this question does not suit them, but it is a fact. All the other parties that are in the majority and currently rule the state have given a positive assessment of these issues. Those who remain opposition, they are virtually opposed to this. [[Stop him! To talk about it, not to develop theories.]] They are practically against this, against the Ministry of Interior fulfilling its obligations under law. With regard to the person they are asking me about, I can say that they were there, I quote from operational data and from previous elections and since when they were organized last year, and when preparing for the 11 July elections, that the same activity that it is directing gives reason to accept, to conclude that there will be violations of the electoral legislation, including a crime against the political rights of the Bulgarian citizens. [[The answer to a copier! Sit down! You're ready!]] [[DRF lines]] In this regard, in conducting a specialized police operation on the territory of Silistra District was carried out, notice what the Ministry of Interior officials have reflected, not the Minister, the employees of which it is said... [[What have they written? Read it!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u316	Please, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u317	...respected by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, they've written what I'm reading right now. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u318	It's gone a long way, but short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u319	...that a discussion was held with the person quoted in the question of the MP... [[DSS and DSS lines]] Yeah, that's right. [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] For the record, talks are also being held. They can also be operational, can be both intelligence and other types. Read a little, learn about this relationship. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] In this regard it has been found necessary on the basis of art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, I repeat on the basis of this available information, to draw up a warning protocol of this Bulgarian citizen. I do not care if he is sympathetic to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but I am constantly giving answers to questions from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms........................................................................................... [[DSS and DSS lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u320	Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u321	...but only the sympathizers of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] That's what you'll be calling from the bairs where you're from. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u322	Mr. Secretary... I give the floor for Mr. Ahmed's cue. Here you go, Mr. Ahmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u323	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Stupid answer, nonsense, the same thing all day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u324	Mr. Ahmed... [[(Lowered noise, bank banging and DPS lines: Why are you interrupting it? Did you just think of that?]] Colleagues, why do you want me to punish you? You want me to punish you for seven minutes. Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u325	Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u326	Wait, Mr. Ahmed, we won't count this time. I'm just asking you to stop yelling out of place because it's a matter of simple upbringing in plenary not to be called that. [[Calls DSS MPs]] [[DPS lines.]] The minister didn't say that MPs are stupid and talk nonsense. I'm asking you very much that we treat each other with respect. It can be any minister and vice versa, it can be any MP, we have to behave like decent people, in the first place. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Go on, Mr. Ahmed, we're running your time again.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u327	Because you didn't understand, Mr. Chairman, to clarify. At last parliamentary control, Minister Rashkov has allowed himself several times before all of us to say here that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is asking silly questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u328	I wasn't there, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u329	When you weren't there...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u330	I would have made a note then. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u331	Thanks for the remark. In relation to the response, the answer is normal, educational, impressive. We're not a university here, we're not students, we're not on Internal Affairs when you talk, the middle part of the room listening to you as a guru. Regarding the talk that you said, I said for a reason that I personally attended from the beginning, even before the employees of the Ministry of Interior came and by the time they left, I was personally with the persons and the employees of the Ministry of Interior. There was no talk and there was no motive or reason you had to treat these honest and decent people that way. You explained with great satisfaction: they were Bulgarian citizens. Anybody say it's the other way around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u332	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Looking at the weather, I suggest we clear Mr. Ahmed's second question and that's that. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Wait, that's what I'm saying. Let's clear this up with Mr. Ahmed. Before that, I give the floor to Mr. Letifov and there is still time for Mr. Ahmed, if we have to skip a minute or two to clear his question. For a statement, by whom? [[Noise and lines.]] It is included this declaration, colleagues. I warned that the controls would continue until 6:00 p.m. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I ask you to remind the ministers that they are in a parliamentary control procedure and are obliged to answer the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly. They're bound by the Constitution to give all the information they need. Mr. Chairman, I just said that we have nothing on you. But, of course, you, as the first of equals, are obliged to follow the rules and not take sides. We heard from Minister Rashkov that the ruling majority supports these actions and this information and some of the ruling majority came to ask for more information from the minister. [[Noise and Resurrection lines.]] Let me just tell you: this violation of the rights, because where there is data, we have not argued, where there is data, that they be given to the competent authorities, no one is arguing with this. We are MPs of the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively of all Bulgarian citizens. We know that, everyone in the room knows that, you see, now Mr. Rashkov has understood that. But suggestion will not erase the shame of the twenty thousand cases according to his words........................ the twenty thousand cases! And we have data on how much they are, how bulky they are, how factually accurate they will say the competent authorities, but they are negligible to compare those 20,000 cases that they have visited as guests, and the ruling majority, of course, support this. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u334	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Just to clarify that I may be mistaken, but Mr. Rashkov did not say the ruling majority, but said part of the political formations, but whatever. For the procedure please come in, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u335	Dear Mr. President, as we have learned today from both the questions and the answers, there is an organized group in parliament of the DPS. And to be more precise and more specific, an organized copy group. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u336	You're very witty, Mr. Georgiev. It's organized, it's organized, it's almost all here. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Let's keep our cool so we can clear Mr. Ahmed's questions. Here you go, Mr. Ahmed. Last question about today's control.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, to be as brief as possible and fit in time. On the same day, at the same hour, at the same place, the person Ismail Yusuf Khalil was warned by a warning protocol. My specific question is: what were the grounds for this; what were the written evidence, data and assumptions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior that the person would commit a crime in order to have the grounds for warning him with a warning protocol under art. 65 of the Ministry of Interior Act?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u338	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed, for the short question. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a good thing we saved up the opening parts already. There are no claims of pressure and harassment, which somewhat relieves me in the answer, because such actions have not been carried out, there is no such data. As for the person you are asking me about, it is also a member of the Local Council of the [[DPS lines.]] It's just that all of a sudden, it just happens that... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u340	Colleague, no one said it was bad. Please don't shout.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u341	Turns out, it's just... [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u342	Well, I can't see her from behind.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u343	...in relation to the sympathizers of the Ministry of the Interior is so cruel in the words of the MPs of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms and because they are sympathizers or members, or local leaders of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms, which you understand is simply absurd. It's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u344	Mr. Rashkov, give the answer that time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u345	Well, let's run out. Secondly, there are no such violations as have been committed in respect of this sympathizer and member of the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms." [[Replys from DPS: "Imam! "]] There are no violations! If there are violations of this person's rights, refer directly to the Bulgarian court, he will solve this issue. I can't decide that. I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a judge, I'm not an investigative body. Proceed to them, to the competent authorities. Second and third, I'd say someone didn't understand something. For last year and during the elections, and among them there are indeed about 20,000 warning protocols in our country, but these protocols do not concern only crimes against citizens' political rights. But if a politician hasn't figured that out in over a year, I don't know if he belongs here. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u346	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Guys, you don't have to yell like that. [[(Mister Boyko Rashkov:) Do you want me to sue you for this thing? Would you like some?]] No, don't sue them, Mr. Rashkov. [[Loud noise.]] Please don't yell like that. Let's have some respect, fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. Ahmed. That's a replica of the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u347	Dear Minister, since you don't deserve an answer, I won't answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u348	It's a line that says that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u349	Yeah, but I can say more than just the answer, can't I? The minister's been doing this all day. Because all the questions have hats and the Ministry of Interior has a hat. And since the Minister cannot see into the specifics of the issues, the best thing for Bulgaria is that in the first wind the hat will fall and the Ministry of Interior is not you. Along with the hat and you're leaving. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-04-15.u350	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. Here you go, if you like. You don't want to. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. I don't know, Mr. Chakarov, I think we can end this now. I thank everyone for the participation of the ministers and fellow Members for staying until the end of the control. Next session next Wednesday, next week, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
