ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Under the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 1 " 3 June 2022" As the first Wednesday, we have five proposals that have been made in the order of art. 47, para. 8. "1." Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria. Importers are Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 2 March 2022. The first vote was adopted on 6 April 2022. 2. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of Party ARCHIVER.. Draft of a decision to announce competition procedures by the Minister of Agriculture for the selection of directors of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Law. Importers are Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2022. 3. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly from the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Group We are continuing the Change. The First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Public Offering of Securities. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2022. 4. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDZ "Project of a Decision for the Establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances related to the government's signed Memorandum of 1 billion. US dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. Importers are Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 28 March 2022. 5. Proposal under art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Committee on Rights and Freedoms. Importers are Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs on 19 May 2022. These dots automatically enter the program. Now the part of the Programme proposed by the President: It's six. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2022. It is proposed in the order of art. 47, para. 8. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. Adopted in first vote on 18 May 2022. 8. A bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. 9. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 March 2022. 10. Draft decisions on changes in the compositions of Standing Committees. Importer is Halil Letifov on 17 May 2022. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Agreements to Prevent Tax Base shrinking and the Transfer of Profits. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2022. 13. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022. 14. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act. Importers are Mustafa Karadayi, Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid on 19 January 2022; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs on 13 May 2022. 15. The first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 is submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 19 May 2022. 16. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers are Atanas Atanasov and a group of MPs on 2 March 2022. The first vote was adopted on 6 April 2022. It is also as a first point, imported in accordance with the order of art. 47, para. 8. 17. First vote on the Bulgarian Language Bill. Importers are Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2022. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 18. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, 3 June 2022, at 9.00 p.m. 19. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. I shall put the Programme to the vote in the part proposed by me, the points of art. 47, para. Eight goes in automatically. Vote 192 MPs: 126 against 5, abstention 61. The motion is accepted. We move on to the proposals that have been made in the order of art. 47, para. 3. The first one is from the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people." The proposal is to include the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022 as the first item for Thursday. Importers are Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. This point is in the program, but it's not fixed. I put to the vote the motion in the fixing of the point as the first for Thursday. They voted 193 MPs: 99, against 27, abstention 67. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. They voted 198 MPs: 100, against 26, abstention 72. The motion is accepted. Point 15 shall be fixed as first for Thursday. [[Noise and lines by MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Mr. Tsonev, shall we run out of suggestions first? Okay. Let's just go over the proposal by para. 3. Next proposal is a proposal from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ to hold a hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on the government's decision to end the plan for resettlement of refugees from Ukraine. The proposal is to be included as the first item in the programme for June 3rd, Friday. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u2	We suggest it be included as a second point for Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u3	On Friday, point one is blitzcontrol. Friday's second point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u4	It can be included as point two for Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u5	The proposal from GERB-SDS is for the hearing to be included in the Programme as point two for Thursday. It's fixed like point two for Thursday. Voting mode. They voted 201 MPs: 106, against 77, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. They voted 202 MPs: 105, against 78, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. We add as point eighteenth in the Programme and fixed as point two for Thursday: Hearing of Deputy Prime Minister Kalina Konstantinova on the government's decision to end the resettlement plan for refugees from Ukraine. The next proposal is from the MP Petar Petrov. [[Heckling]] You're withdrawing him. Thank you. And the final offer under art. 47, para. 3 is from the MP Ahmed Ahmedov. Mr. Anastasov wants a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it has been three weeks since Prime Minister Kiril Petkov was supposed to check the design and construction of South Stream and Turkish Stream. From our information to this day, absolutely none of this has happened. It was just another firecracker, not to use other words again, Mr. Chairman, which you do not tolerate, which the Prime Minister has thrown into space in view of his visit to the United States of America. We, of course, have doubts that some of the entities involved in the construction of these flows are related to the current power. That is why we want to do an absolute complete check of everything, including why Greece and Bulgaria's gas interconnection project has been delayed. I do not need to remind you that the vote on this point will be a litmus to the extent that you are sincere, to the extent that you conceal subjects related to the Russian Federation. Mr. Chairman, in case the point is approved, which I believe will happen, because everyone here wants to prove what the truth is, I suggest that the point be first for Wednesday. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u7	First one today for Wednesday. Okay, but it has to be after the five points that are under art. 47, para. 8. All right, honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal of our colleagues from the DPS to include a point in the Programme.. Draft of a decision to establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances on natural gas pipelines. Vote 204 MPs: 108 against 82 abstentions 14. The motion is accepted. This point we're fixing it as six and one for Wednesday. Mr. Tsonev, we're fixing it as first for today after the five times art. 47, para. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u8	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u9	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there is ambiguity, the colleague at the beginning did not realize that today is the first day of the month. In case the time runs out today with the dots under para. 8, this point should stay first for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u11	Now, as we voted, it is not so, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u12	Then I do a procedure that reads as follows: in case the point does not reach the time today, pass, because otherwise we have to extend the time if we assume that it is a point then.........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u13	Point three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u14	Point three for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u15	Okay. First on Saturday, if there's a quorum. [[Noise and lines.]] [[Elevator bell dings]] We're setting out Mr. Tsonev's proposal. If we do not have enough time for this point today, continue its examination on the day following the exhaustion of the first and second points. This is the procedural proposal we are voting on. Yes, yes, it will continue after the first and second. [[Noise and lines.]] It got scary, yeah. Vote 202 MPs: for 103, against 87, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. [[Reply:.]] It's a re-vote. Vote 206 MPs: 102, against 89, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u16	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u17	We're listening, Mr. Karadaye. You're welcome for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a favor to ask of you. From now on, when someone starts lying from this tribune on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, specifically on this subject, to make comments on how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. With this we have exhausted the proposals under art. 47, para. 3. Before we continue with the items on the agenda, I will read you a few messages: On 30 May 2022 the National Assembly received a National Plan for the introduction of the euro in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision No 344 of 2022 of the Council of Ministers. The plan was submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The material is provided to the MPs, parliamentary groups, the Committee on Budget and Finance; the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Electronic Governance and Information Technologies, the Committee on Transport and Communications; the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. A report on financial management and control and internal audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2021 was received in the National Assembly on 30 May 2022. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Funds Control to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the Members of the National Assembly Library. On 25 May 2022, an updated Programme for the Audit Activity of the Court of Auditors for 2022 was received in the National Assembly. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 April 2022. "20 May 2022 and Protocol No 18 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 May 2022, at which the Report has been reviewed and discussed. By resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol are sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets were received at the National Assembly on 31 March 2022 from: National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means; Commission for Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property; Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Agriculture. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. The National Statistical Institute received information on the main results of the labour force monitoring in the first quarter of 2022; business conjuncture Those were the messages. We're moving on to the dots of the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u20	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u21	For a statement please, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u22	Mr. Chairman, each country has five forms of sovereignty. Every country that claims to be an independent and free state, which determines its own future, has political sovereignty, or, in other words, the right to determine its own destiny and its own policy. Economic sovereignty, or the right and the ability to provide itself with everything necessary with its production of its population. Food security is an opportunity to be able to feed its own population without being dependent on imports. Defensive capacity to defend its own territorial integrity and independence and financial sovereignty to have its own currency, and the right to determine its own financial policy. 33 years after the beginning of the so-called transition in Bulgaria, four of the five forms of sovereignty have been completely defeated. Bulgaria has no political sovereignty. We don't define our own destiny. Foreign embassies decide how and how Bulgaria will develop. We do not have economic sovereignty because the vast majority of the goods we consume and which are necessary for the existence of society and population are imports. We have no nutritional sovereignty. Less than 20% of the food products in Bulgaria are the product of the Bulgarian economy and of the Bulgarian agriculture more than 80% is imported. The only thing we produce in sufficient quantities to satisfy us and be able to even export is flour and oil. We don't have defensive sovereignty. From this tribune here a series of our prime ministers and defence ministers have stated that NATO and the US bases in Bulgaria are the ones that guarantee national security and not the Bulgarian army. The only thing we have left is financial sovereignty. Bulgaria has a currency that is one of the most stable in the world at the moment. Bulgaria has one of the oldest national banks and the right to determine its own financial policy. Against this last element of Bulgarian sovereignty last week, on Friday, the Bulgarian government committed an assassination. A Plan for the introduction of the euro on 1 January 2024 was adopted. Moreover, a Plan which was not adopted unanimously by the entire Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Prime Minister "10 of the ministers" supported this plan. The other part of the Council of Ministers did not support it. It turned out that on Friday, not even the entire Council of Ministers, but only 10 ministers made an attempt against one of the most stable currencies in the world and made it so that they questioned the survival of not just the Bulgarian lev but the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian nationality. Of course, this decision comes with a series of lies, propaganda suggestions and various manipulations that are heard by all propaganda channels of power. It is explained to us Bulgarians that entering the eurozone guarantees the wealth of the Bulgarian people, which is a lie. At the very least, because there are three countries on the Balkan Peninsula that use the euro, two of which are one of quite poor in Europe, such as Kosovo and Montenegro, and Greece, which is using the euro, has been in a state of chronic financial and banking crisis for nearly 15 years. It explains how the entry of the euro will lead to stability of the financial system in Bulgaria. It's another lie. One third of the euro area countries, especially those in the Southern Belt of Europe, are in a state of chronic banking crises and financial instability since the major financial crisis in 2008. It explains how we are obliged to adopt the euro because we have thus signed the Treaty of Accession of the European Union. Another lie! There is no deadline for Bulgaria to adopt the euro! There is no such term, it is not fixed and this is also written in the Maastricht Treaty, to which it redirects Bulgaria's EU membership treaty signed in 2006 and entered into force on 1 January 2007. The truth is that the introduction of the euro in Bulgaria will not lead to wealth, stability and prosperity, but to impoverishment, inflation and unemployment. The truth is that this will be death for the economy, death for the incomes of the Bulgarian people, death for the savings of the Bulgarian people. The truth is that it cannot and there is no way in a rule of law and a democratic state 10 people can make a decision that concerns the fates of millions of Bulgarians, not what decision, but a decision that destroys the Bulgarian currency. That is why we at ARCHER believe that there should be a referendum on the issue and are seeking support from representatives of parliamentary parties so that we can put this issue here in the National Assembly, first of all. However, at least here on the Constitution it says that there are people's representatives. If this thing does not happen, we will then turn to the actual sovereign of Bulgarian sovereignty, we will turn to the Bulgarian people and collect the necessary number of signatures that vary between 200 and 400 thousand, it will not be a problem to collect half a million and more. However, the big question will be then, if it is not a problem for us to collect 500 thousand signatures on the streets of Bulgaria, but it is a problem to gather 50 here in the National Assembly, how much is this National Assembly national and how much are the MPs here and who are they really representing the Bulgarian people or anyone else? These questions will have to be answered in the coming days, and not by us, of course, but by the Bulgarian citizens, because the destruction of the Bulgarian lev, honourable compatriots, and the introduction of a foreign currency, which we will have absolutely no influence on, is a question that concerns every voter without exception............................................................. The incomes and savings will be equally hit by both the rich and the poor and the opposition, both the government and the left and the right. That is why there really must be a referendum on this issue, there really must be a broad public discussion, there really must be heard all kinds of opinions from each spectrum about and against, as is happening in normal democratic societies. Because otherwise, it will once again remain the impression that someone is making a decision under foreign pressure to the detriment of Bulgarian national interests. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Cholakov, for a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, you will agree that we cannot fail to deal immediately with what is happening to the citizens of Ukraine who have sought temporary protection in Bulgaria and with another pre-known failure of the Bulgarian government, this time under the direct political responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Governance Kalina Konstantinova. Kalina Konstantinova's statement on Monday regarding refugees from the war in Ukraine shocked everyone. You see the forums on the Internet, you see what people think of the Deputy Prime Minister for Effective Management. The public opinion has already delivered its verdict. Everyone wants its resignation. Until her resignation arrives, however, we want Mrs. Konstantinova to continue to be led here, to come to this tribune, so that you folk representatives of the ruling coalition, when you look at her brazen smile, every time you think about the Bulgarian post office, the Ukrainian mothers, the wagons to Yambol and the buses to Panichishte and to your own shame that you continue to tolerate all of this. We will not talk about the Deputy Prime Minister today, but we would like to say a few words about how a country is managed and, in particular, how crises like this are managed. Ladies and gentlemen, only 15 years after the creation of the Third Bulgarian State in the period 1894, 1896 20 thousand Armenians arrived in our country. During the Balkan wars their number became 35,000 and a little later came another 22,000. After 1917, 100 thousand citizens of the Russian Empire fled the Red Terror passed through Bulgaria, 20 thousand of them remained here. After the Balkan and especially after the end of World War I, 300,000 refugees from Macedonia, Belomore Thrace and North Dobrudja arrived in the motherland. Imagine what the Bulgarian state looked like at the time, without infrastructure, without hotels at sea, without housing fund, without IT specialists, without European funds and certainly without Deputy Prime Minister for effective management! Yet that Bulgarian state has shown itself to be extremely effective. All these hundreds of thousands of people have been accepted, cared, found work, built homes, studied children and fully integrated into the Bulgarian society, some of them are surely your grandparents. That country could have done all this. The State of Kiro and Kalina cannot! With all the resources that there is, much of which are built and left by GERB, with all its claims and digital skills, it simply cannot. You can't, because those who accidentally ran into the government wheel at this point can't. Understand that Kiro and Kalina just can't! You will ask what GERB would do in this situation? Really temporary protection is a new situation that was unknown to us as well. GERB governments have successfully dealt with refugee crises, but of a different nature. A refugee wave this size has never seen anyone. Nevertheless, we will tell you what we would have done and how we would have handled it. The first thing we would do is to fully decentralise the obligations and powers of acceptance of those seeking temporary protection to the municipalities. You, fellow Members of the House of Change, have no idea what this country is, but you have even less idea of what a municipality is! Each person's life passes into the municipality in the municipality he lives, there his children go to a municipal kindergarten or a municipal school, there he works, there he pays taxes, there he goes to the doctor, there he uses all social and administrative services. The municipality is the main integrating factor of society. Subsidyarity. A word you have heard means that the state will let the municipalities do what only they can do and not interfere with them, but help them. Anyone with a elementary sense of control knows it's an axiom. Therefore, what the government of GERB would do is first in cooperation with the Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria to draw up a plan for the admission of temporary protection seekers of Ukraine in the Bulgarian municipalities. That's what we would have done without any delay. In each municipality there are hotels that need more support from hotels by the sea. Each municipality knows what its other accommodations are, where there are vacancies in municipal schools and kindergartens, it knows employers and job vacancies. Each municipality can organise the activities of municipal and state services related to the accommodation of refugees in such a way that all their needs are met immediately. And only the city can integrate them. The state would pay the bills that those 148 million of the European solidarity funds would have entered into the municipalities and through them to reach the needy. The state would pay equally and equally to anyone who would give shelter to our Ukrainian friends, whether it be a hotel, a dormitory or a private person, because it is fair. Every mother would be taken care of, every child would be placed in a garden or school, everyone would already have a personal doctor. Many more would have had jobs, all would have attended courses in Bulgarian language and felt well cared for and protected by a local community, which would have taken responsibility for them and among which they would have felt at home. This is how it would have been with the government of GERB. Thus, the Bulgarian state at the beginning of the 20th century accepted half a million refugees and came out more solid, stronger and more wealthy. This is what they do now in Romania and Poland, who have accepted millions of Ukrainians, and because they know how to manage it, they will come out more solid, stronger and richer. That's what we would have done. What did your government do? When it sent 35,000 Ukrainians seeking protection to hotels in Sunny Beach, it was simply clear that it was looking to remove these people from its head without any concept of what it was doing and without realizing that it could literally blow up a municipality like Nessebar. Now, when, in the most inhuman way, three months later, he starts sending them to Panichishte, where there is no shop, no school, no job, no doctor, it becomes clear that the government does not understand the concept of temporary protection at all. And the buffer center in Elhovo can send Ukrainian mothers with children only sadists who have decided to expel these people as quickly as possible from Bulgaria. I demand that the Director of the Agency for Refugees be called to the Committee on Citizens' Rights tomorrow, so that we can ask her if Ukrainians are human and have rights, including temporary protection. And I ask the Budget Commission to ask the Minister of Finance where are the 148 million euros of European aid for welcoming and integration of refugees? Where's the money?! The media lately very mourn the government of change and regularly reprimand GERB why it criticizes these good people and does not help them. Here, we help them, with every advice we give them, we help them. That's what we've been telling you since the war started. What can we do with your leaders being so mindless and inhuman, what should we do when your Deputy Prime Minister insults people entitled to temporary protection under European law and treats them as concentration camps? What should we do when your Prime Minister is spreading xenophobic statements in the centre of Europe? How can we help when your Minister of Innovation Lorre sees only business opportunities in the war in Ukraine? Business is done with people you can trust. With you, no one will want to do business or politics. You cannot be trusted. If you haven't figured it out, you'll find out soon enough. Finally, two words to Ukrainian refugees. My dear friends, I'm sorry! We Bulgarians are not like that. We wanted to show you Bulgarian hospitality, we wanted your children to play with our children, we wanted to work together and celebrate together, we wanted to be neighbors and good friends. The Bulgarian government gave us no chance to get to know each other and get to know each other. However, please do not be angry with the Bulgarian people and do not remember us badly! One day we'll meet again and then we promise to make it up to you. God save you, God save us! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Moving on to point one of the program: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCESS AND DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR STATEMENT OF THE PRESENCE OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE RECOGNITIONAL SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY A report came in from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention a report on this bill. The Law on access and disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u27	I suggest all three paragraphs, I see that there are no proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u28	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 shall be added at the end after each check under art. 26, para. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 shall be added at the end after each check under art. 26, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following additions shall be made at the end of the year, taking into account the existence of previous checks. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall make the following additions to the statement of Paragraph 3...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u29	You don't have to read it all to us. Only at the end of the Commission's resolution.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 and in the text prior to that. 1 the word "suppliers' is replaced by "suppliers' and "suppliers', and "suppliers' are replaced by "suppliers' and "suppliers'. 2 words are added to the words and the words shall be replaced by the words shall be added to the words.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and the three paragraphs. Peter Petrov, to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, the Bill was reviewed at a second vote in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, of course, there was a very serious discussion. Both the President of the relevant committee and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court Georgi Cholakov, who presented the interpretation of the decision signed by 88 judges, which interpreted the Law in that part, did not need to gather the Commission at a new meeting to take a decision once a person has already been declared whether or has not been part of the relevant services. Unfortunately, the Commission took the opposite view as a majority decision, namely that it is necessary for the members of this committee to continue to gather, to continue to take identical decisions, and to continue to give examples of 11, 13, 15 identical decisions concerning the same person, and thus we, as Bulgarian taxpayers, will justify the salaries of this committee, which I personally believe is another unnecessary and parasitic structure in the state administration. With regard to the specific three paragraphs, I would like to make an editorial proposal in § 3, where a new para is created. Article 6 29 with the text: A person already declared belonging shall be disclosed and declared by the Commission, indicating the decision establishing and declaring belonging. The Commission shall indicate the three names of the person on an identity document, the archive documents and its new public quality under art. 26, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. I would like to make an editorial proposal in such a way that the subparagraph acquires the following text: a person who has already been declared belonging to and in respect of whom there is an inquiry in the Commission, with regard to him a letter of notice shall be issued by the President of the Commission to the applicant concerned, indicating the number of the decision already taken prior to which his affiliation was declared, and this letter of notice shall be published on the Commission's website. What is the purpose of this editorial proposal? Do not require a subsequent, repeated, shocking, thirteenth meeting of the members of this committee to take a decision with the same text in relation to the same person, provided that you notice that the Commission's website has a public register at the moment, a public search engine with which each of you can see not only which person has been announced but also how many times it has been announced. So if a notification regime is simply adopted, with a simple letter from the President of the Commission, without having to gather the entire composition and take these decisions, and this letter is announced on the Commission's website, of course that Bulgarian citizens could have much easier, quickly and specifically received information on whether a person, after applying for a new position, belonged or not to these services. In this regard, it is my editorial proposal, colleagues, to save this committee some work, a little unnecessary work, and to end this wicked practice for me to do 11, 15 uniform meetings with 11, 15 identical decisions, because when one person was declared to belong to the State Security services, there is subsequently no way for the Commission to decide that it did not belong to the structures of State Security. So I ask you to support my editorial proposal. Finally, Mr President, we have already once talked about Parliament's website that there are no transcripts of the relevant review in the Commission of the Bill panel. For the second time I will ask you, technically it is my request, let the transcripts of the panel of the bill itself be uploaded, because at this time I have not been able to navigate and the transcription of the Commission meeting is missing, and I think it would be a good thing that this is just a technical request, I regret that for the second time I have to make it, let the relevant staff do their best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u33	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Peter Petrov? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for a reply only on the concrete proposal made by Mr. Petrov, and since when presenting the Draft at second reading I did not literally read § 3, I will now do so so so that you can judge that what Mr. Petrov proposes is pointless. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 a new para is created. 6 which reads: "Face, which has already been declared belonging.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission points out the three names of the person on an identity document, the archive documents and his new public quality. Those who claim that the Commission's decisions are for the same person do not realise that they are being checked for different qualities. 20 years ago someone was a candidate for municipal councillor and declared him because his belonging was established, and now he is applying for, I give an example, let's say for a representative of the National Assembly this is the new quality for which he applied, and the Bulgarian public must understand that this person had this affiliation, indicating, of course, the old decision. So I don't see what the point of this proposal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line from Rena Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line to my colleague is that here the conversation is not about how many times the Commission will sit on the same person. The conversation is that every time one of us goes to a higher public office, it should be checked whether it has been part of the relevant services and, once that inspection has been carried out, it should be made public on the occasion of his particular stated desire to participate in power in some form. In short, we are defending the right of the public to know who was part of the services on any occasion on which such a person is headed for public office. That is why I believe that this fellow Member's proposal is untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Stefanova. For the third line, Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Petrov! Let us explain to those present, albeit a little, colleagues, as the others have come out of the Chamber that we are talking about the same actions that cost our budget of 4 million per year so that the Democratic Bulgaria will be able to warm up its voters periodically how much it has fought communism for 32 years. 17 times has been checked Velizar Enchev, 17 times Bulgarian society has clearly and categorically heard, saw, it is cursed that it is an agent of the services. He was a scout, but they matched him to the one who followed Todor Zhivkov's dirty underwear. [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Please, Mr. Petrov... [[Reply from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, not from the spot. Get up and talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u39	Mr. Ganev, don't address Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u40	Make a remark to him not to speak. Why are you making a remark to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u41	Don't enter into a discussion!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u42	Mr. Ananiev, don't explain to me, get up and talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u43	Colleagues, this discussion must end now! It's about both of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u44	Mr. Petrov, be so kind as to explain to the people who are willing to continue this insanity to spend 4 million each year so that someone can accumulate a political asset that they need to stop and that no information that is available on the site is needed to look again and to cost millions of dollars to the Bulgarian taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go, Mr. Petrov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, dear Mr. Atanasov, I do not think that my proposal is pointless, it is pointless only for people who receive an annual budget of 4.6 million. lv. State money to make 11, 13, 15 or more the same uniform decisions, because a person who is once declared a member of State Security cannot obtain another quality, whether or not I will subsequently take a different state position for which it applies or not. The subject of all these decisions is the same, the register is public, the search engine is public and everyone can be informed whether this person was or was not part of State Security. We therefore believe that holding a new and new meeting with uniform solutions is absolutely pointless for the Bulgarian taxpayer and that is why I made the relevant editorial proposal. Colleague Stefanova, and you. I believe that we could deal with much more important issues on the agenda of society than to create meaningless work and hope that in some of the forthcoming meetings of this committee it could be that, for example, Mr. Enchev suddenly, in a subsequent decision, was not belonging to State Security. If such a decision were to come out, the whole Bulgarian public could be really surprised after these 17 uniform decisions, after 17 uniform meetings. Dear Mr. Ganev, I understand your concern that money is being spent on the Bulgarian taxpayer for nothing. I understand your concerns that a particular political formation has been trying to simulate some kind of struggle against the communist regime for over 32 years. Unfortunately, these are the realities at the moment and instead of really struggling with the problems of Bulgarian society, we are trying to create work of an unnecessary state structure to meet with the same solutions and justify the receipt of salaries as part of the budget, I repeat, we voted this year.................................................................. lv. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u47	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Gutsanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I rarely allow myself to say such words, but without wanting to touch anyone, this proposal is an expression of deep legislative weakness. 33 years after the changes to reopen this topic, when most of these people who were part of the services are not among the living and the other are retired, excuse me, but will this solve some of the problems of the Bulgarian citizens at the moment, will we ease the situation of the economy, will we help the Bulgarian families? That's one side of the question. I have the feeling that this law will almost make it possible for the Commission to continue its work. Once a person has been declared, how many times should he be declared? That's one. Second, this law also includes the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. And how many people were real scouts and how many people really helped Bulgaria's national security? How many worked for the Bulgarian Army? And don't we insult those who remain alive or their generations? And a second time, how do we build an intelligence system and an intelligence service when we do everything we can to expose these people? I think we should be a lot more careful when we talk about this matter once, and a second time, let's not reopen something that ended 33 years ago. Others are the problems, and I really call you to talk about the judicial reform right now, something that many of the MPs and political parties entered the parliament with this request, but the judicial reform has not been made. Let's concentrate there and make it happen, not reopen the closet for something that hasn't existed for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A line? Mr. Atanasov, come in. Second line by Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gutsanov, I wouldn't take a line, but I'd like to remind you of a few things here. Thirty-three years have passed since the changes, but the people who worked in the repressive apparatus of the communist regime, not a small part of them are still in key positions in the country, and this should be known by the Bulgarian citizens. I would like to remind you that there has been a law in force in Bulgaria since 2000, with which the communist regime has been declared criminal, and no one has ever dared to ask for its annulment. And there's one more thing I want to remind you of, and please listen to me. Since you are speaking here about the great scouts during the communist regime, there is one instruction that is called, I do not know what the name of this document has been given to him, the instruction of the Politburo for the work of the State Security and the intelligence services of Bulgaria. Let's end this rhetoric, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u51	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line? No, you gave up. Are there any other lines to Borislav Gutsanov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, there must be a huge difference between snitches and intelligence services. No one can deny that Bulgaria had an extremely strong intelligence system, and I hope it will be one now. We cannot speak in an open session of what is currently our intelligence system, but we cannot easily deny what has been done in the Bulgarian Army, what were the intelligence services and what success they have undoubtedly had, and we must have the necessary memory and due respect. I believe that this committee has ended its necessity and there is no need at the moment by law, there is no such need, to continue its work. She has to go to some memory institute or something, but she doesn't have to go on what she is right now. And besides, I don't think that anything that was 33 years ago has the value you want to give in this room. I think we should really concentrate on judicial reform something that concerns the development of our country undoubtedly. So let's do this and put aside the things that were in the last century to help people's normal lives now and today.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. To speak, Martin Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The question is principled.. or people will know what kind of persons are offered for electoral posts, or they will not know. Those are the two possibilities. Two arguments have been said so far against. One argument of ARRANGEMENT is that this carried additional costs. There are no additional costs, colleagues, as is the Commission. Notice, here you have been misled, they say: A person who is once checked shall not be screened a second, third, fifth and tenth time, but shall simply be declared when necessary when he applies in another quality. This is where they tried to fool us, but it's not that easy either. I mean, there's no multiple checks, there's no such thing. However, as there is a Commission, there is no additional cost for it to announce the persons when applying in another capacity. BSP's argument was of a different nature. They said: "These people are of great merit, so we should not announce them who they are. " - But, colleagues of BSP, with such great merit, they deserve to be announced. Announce them, let the people see them and judge their merits. This is what we tell society to have transparency and clarity, to make it clear who is who. And it is possible, for example, as there is a candidate for a national representative and it turns out that he is from State Security, some people to consider that this is a positive quality. And that's possible. But let people know, let's not hide from them. Don't hide from people, don't lie to people. To make it clear who is what, what is, what is it, and what the society is applying for and whether it likes this thing, whether it supports it or not. Because look at what you get a person was a candidate for municipal councilman 20 years ago in a small municipality. That's when it's announced. It is now so that if our amendments to the Law are not adopted, it will not be re-pronounced, although it may be an example candidate for a MP or for another important public office. This key information will be hidden from the Bulgarian society. Why are you guys hiding them? Why do you want to hide them? Let the people see them and let them judge. You don't believe that people can properly judge these questions? Do you doubt that society will correctly judge on this subject and you want to decide instead? They have also tried on another subject to mislead Parliament that, yes, there is an interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court. Very interestingly, the President of the Court has personally gone to the Commission to speak on the subject, only that the interpretive decision means that in the Law as it is right now, there is a gap, and we are right now with our colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria." And by removing the pass, there will be no need for interpretive decisions, people. That's what this is about. In the end, I address all Members of the National Assembly with the following question: do we want on this subject, colleagues, transparency and clarity of who is who, what has done, and he has his responsibility, do we want this, or will he overcome the desire to hide these individuals from the Bulgarian society? [[Noise and lines.]] That's...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u55	Silence in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u56	That's the real big question, ladies and gentlemen. I hope together, responsiblely, that we decide that this information should be public, that it should be made public so that people can decide and people can judge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines to Martin Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I agree with you and I want to build on the part where you said about the delusions of rebirth. Yeah, well, I agree, they fooled people about the vaccines because they were vaccinated, and they said not to inoculate. [[Laughter]] They fooled people about the euro because they keep their deposits in euros and they talk nonsense about the euro here. This is really bullshit about the euro, so I agree with you. And of course, the people are deluding people that they are honest because they buy with the money from the National Assembly properties, so I absolutely agree with you. Thank you for giving light to these lies. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a second line to Martin Dimitrov? I won't. [[Switching of lines between the MP Iskren Mitev and the MPs from the Revival.]] The discussion continues from place to place. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will use the duplicate to invite the honourable Members to the Chamber because I noticed that this point, when I start, very convenient colleagues who have opinions, have arguments, have a civil position, I do not see them at the moment in the Chamber. I would therefore like to warn them that it is fair and we will tell the Bulgarian society clearly on this important question who was in this Chamber and how he voted. So, ladies and gentlemen, come here and stand up for your position, because, unfortunately, at a second vote in the Commission, it was because of the presence of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, whether for other reasons, but the majority was much more hesitant than the vote in plenary. That's how it worked, ladies and gentlemen. On such a significant subject, responsibility must be given, positions must be taken and there must be a strong statement of position, a strong vote. Excuses of the kind: but I wasn't here because I was doing very important other public affairs, they weren't fair. So, honourable Members, come here to vote together, because after today, there are only two options. One is that people from State Security should be hidden by a decision of the National Assembly. This is one possibility that they will no longer be announced. The other option is together and responsible to consider that there will be accountability, transparency and responsibility and Bulgarian citizens will be able to assess who is who, who has done what, whether society deserves to support such people. Will he be able to judge in each particular case? Should I support them, what they are, what they have done? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Now, in order to have speeches from different groups, I give the floor to Radomir Cholakov, because from GERB-SDS we have not yet had a speech, and then to Jayhan Ibryamov. And we haven't had a statement from the DPS until now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Thank God I never cared about that law, and I didn't know it. However, I am aware of the problem as a public problem, and I actually got acquainted with the case during the discussion at first and second reading in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and made the following conclusions on the substance of the matter. The file law, the so-called one, when it was written, his authors thought that once the Commission declared someone to belong to the State Security authorities, this person would never, in itself, run for public office. It was hoped that once you were declared, you would not want any more, or you would not insist on participating in the public life anymore. Unfortunately, as we know, even then the possibility of introducing the lustration mechanisms is missed. And since there is no lustration, there is a possibility, although someone has been declared worthy of the services, to run, to take public positions no matter how it affects the feelings of society. In fact, since there is no lustration, the logic of the Commission, and human logic is every time someone has ever been declared worthy of the services, every time he again wants to take up public service, every time the Commission recalls this fact from his biography. That's it. In fact, we have entered or entered into a again purely formalistic discussion here, both at first and second reading, in which the issue was whether the Commission should make a decision the second time to announce or simply announce. Our opinion of the representatives of GERB-SDS in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order was that, at first and second reading, every time someone was announced, once again asked to run, this fact should be recalled from his biography. In fact, it was all a question of how to edit the text so as to achieve this objective, which is obviously the objective of the Commission. It has been declared in the majority of the Commission that we have no problem with this being the case. The representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court also said that it was okay to announce it, but the question was whether to make a second decision, a new decision, or simply to declare it. Again, it was a question of editing. I realize that the editing is a bit clumsy at the moment, but in view of the purpose of the Law and in view of our philosophy, of our political line, which we share with the representatives of GERB-SDS in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, we will again support the bill at second reading. I conclude by saying that if we want to achieve the real purpose of the Law, perhaps we should really think about lustration, even though time has run out, the group of people who would fall into it is getting smaller and smaller. But unfortunately, this is one of the issues which, at the beginning of the transition in the 1990s, has not been solved fully and as any problem that has not been resolved or is not resolved properly, it is constantly coming out, skeletons in the wardrobe are constantly coming out. This applies to every public sphere in which, if we do not solve the problem, it will always catch up with us. So this is our position. The text is not very perfect, but we will support it because of the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u63	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines to Radomir Cholakov? I can't see. Jayhan Ibryamov, come in, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A lot was said about the principle, history, memory. In addition, are we talking about the real history of democratic Bulgaria? It was even mentioned that people should really judge what happened. Notice, to really judge people! I will add, Mr. Cholakov, what you have said, every law that is exploited for close-party benefit should interest us, and we should be very sensitively interested. Dear colleagues, memory is a very important thing. After the democratic changes in the early 1990s General Semerdzhiev and General Semerdjieva gave a very extensive interview, where they announced that 30% of the State Security files were destroyed. More than that. The first democratically elected president of Bulgaria was Zhelyu Zhelev and his Vice President confirmed this news. I ask the question: why 30%, why not 50% or 100%? Or there was an advantage so that people could really assess which files to leave behind, which means we wouldn't be looking at the 100 percent files belonging to State Security. In Germany, honourable Members, a hundred percent were opened and thus needed decommunisation in Germany, but in Bulgaria it did not happen this way. If in the past 30 years they haven't been cleansed yet, we won't know the whole truth, but we're talking about the truth in this room. 34 years have passed since 1989, ladies and gentlemen of parliament. Indeed, we may be talking about people over the age of 65, who are not really in active politics in the country. But something very important, it's more personal information. Being a snitch was a very easy job. You write a card, you put it in a card store, the state rewards you, you get a higher salary, you sit on a higher pedestal. Notice, the snitch, the slanderer! You make a difference, don't you? At the same time, even today we are witnessing such legislation, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. Recently, some information leaked where snitching could be a human value in the country. Turning back was never good, and it was counterproductive. In Spain, so far, everything has been erased about the old regimes. As I mentioned, it's over in Germany. Another question is, whose fault is it? I ask the question: Whose fault is it of State Security or the totalitarian communist regime? Guilty are those who ruled the Bulgarian communist state at the time. Do we have any heirs today?! Let's answer the question: do we have their heirs and are they even in the government their heirs? For me, there is a bill, and this bill is a gullible gum, because that's how we keep on a leash maybe current politicians, I don't know. Before I finish, I want to share the main question, colleagues, is not what is best, but who will determine what is. There's no hesitation in who points to the good, of course, for me. She is the former Communist Party, heirs of this former Communist Party. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The grinder of power stupidity is ruthless and this is the fatal effect of totalitarian communist state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Reply by Martin Dimitrov, second line by Georgi Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u66	Mr. Ibryamov, your statement impressed us very much. So I have a simple question and I ask for a clear answer. You say that the bill was unnecessary, that was a statement, that is a very simple question: why did you at first reading in the Chamber then support it? So if you don't like something, you don't think it's right, why did the DPS support it at first reading in the House and then change its position as a second reading in the Commission? Rather, it seems otherwise, my dear fellow Member. They look like you've seen the benefits of the Bill at first reading, but something happened after that. So, please, in simple words, please tell us what happened outside of the philosophical statements. And the second question is: is what you say the position of your parliamentary group, or is it your personal position, also important to know? And thirdly, does this mean that you will not support now at second reading, although at first you supported the bill, honourable Members? Please give us a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The second line is from Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ibryamov, I always follow your speeches very carefully because you prepare them very well. I will not cross-examine you, as my colleague Dimitrov has asked now, and ask you three questions at close range. I just want to tell you a few things. Take a look. I don't want this tribune to talk about when the archives of an intelligence are being cleared, how many years is the standard term. You said here a number is not Semerdjieva, but Serkedjieva, because these moments I remember them very well as a victim of State Security, but what is the guarantee that they are 30%? There's no guarantee. What's the point of all of what happened next, and don't imagine that the Stasi are open a hundred percent. You must be very naive to think that an organization like the Stasi allowed a hundred percent to be declassified. It's total naivety, I'm telling you this very seriously as an adult. I mean, the question in this Yours, I judge it very intelligently, but dualistically speaking, and in this sense, with the last part of Dimitrov's question, I would agree, what is your attitude and what is your group's attitude to this law? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u69	Thank you, Mr. Professor. Third line to Jayhan Ibryamov? I won't. Mr. Ibryamov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mihailov, of course, whether it's 30% or 50%, so in my statement I rightly noted why 30%. I was just quoting an interview confirmed by the vice president at the time. Maybe there were fewer, maybe more. As for Germany, it is also based on data submitted on official documents for the 100 percent that they are open and therefore decommunisation has been imposed. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dimitrov, I did not say in my statement that the Law is general, that is, the word "necessary" I did not use. I choose my words very correctly when I speak. There is no way for a movement of rights and freedoms to be charged with something that we have personally suffered on our backs. Democracy in this country came thanks to the heroic resistance against the totalitarian state, which began 1984 - 1985, with initial stages 1972 - 1973. Do you understand what this is about, ladies and gentlemen? We are sensitive to all the topics that affect people's rights, the rights of societies for equality, equality. And that was achieved by the Turks and Muslims in this republic along with Mr. Ahmed Dogan and all the people fighting for rights and freedoms. Here are the achievements of democratic Bulgaria.. free market economy, NATO, European Union and everything else that we are witnessing today. And I will repeat this type of bill by importers who were directly involved in those dark times, during those totalitarian regimes, yes, we are sensitive, so I say: this bill is chewing gum for gullibles and keeping certain politicians on a leash, and perhaps even those who are in the government of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Now I give the floor to Tsoncho Ganev and remind you, colleagues, let's stick to the proposed texts. This is a second vote - we are not discussing the philosophy of the Law, but we are discussing specific texts. Tsoncho Ganev for speech, then Georgi Svilenski or Professor Mihaylov s someone from your parliamentary group, then Atanas Slavov, Kostadin Kostadinov is also enrolled. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u72	Mr. Chairman, my speech, I'm beginning it, but I just want to point out something that I couldn't replicate, Mr. Ibryamov, he made a duplicate. I'll just point out that what you said about heroic resistance in a large part is frank terrorism, when you blow up trains with mothers and children, there are victims of mothers and children. This is the heroic resistance at the time. We have a bill submitted by.. Democratic Bulgaria..... and a little factology regarding the whole thing that is happening once again. We have a government in which we have a new minister of e-government. At the same time, this minister is from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. At the same time, the Democratic Bulgaria is re-entering a bill that wants to open cardboards, to make inquiries, to convene committees, to make files on possible people who will participate in the political life of Bulgaria. By the way, these people, if any of them go anywhere, they're at least 75, 80 or 90 years old. Most of these people are probably not among the living, but you want to maintain. And the next fact over 4 million each year, everyone can calculate how much this thing has cost Bulgaria in 32 years, this committee, so that a specific political formation named in all these years in a different way can explain how it fights communism.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u73	By the lyrics, Mr. Ganev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u74	This whole thing that's currently on the agenda. We can't agree that what Mr. Dimitrov said, that this is not true and that they don't get used to it. I'm sorry, what you're suggesting is exactly that. The same thing to check and get used to. On the site was said by the MP of the Bulgarian Revival: "There is a clear and accurate reference. Anyone can make it. " - What prevents a review? Together with you for months, our bill, in which we want this committee to be closed, is not being drawn up. Clear and precise. All archives should be transferred to the "Archives" Agency and the necessary references should be made there. It would save millions, millions, purely economically. There is no problem and we welcome what has to be published to be published, uploaded to an electronic version and when you want to take out 75. 80-year-old people's files, but take them out, but have them in an electronic version, not pay again millions of the budget. We have made a concrete proposal, with a specific bill that has not been under consideration for months now, and it is for closure. Shutting it down because it cost us millions. You refuse. Where's the electronic control you're talking about? Where are more than 2 billion in recent years, which Bulgaria has invested in electronic governance. There was a whole deputy prime minister doing this. Well, where we came from again, and wants a Democratic Bulgaria to count cards and explain to its electorate, as Martin Dimitrov said: "Now we will explain to our voters who voted. 32 years of fighting...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u75	Mr. Ganev, give me something on the lyrics. We get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u76	In the texts I said clearly and accurately, and I repeat one thing that is clearly not heard by "Democratic Bulgaria." This thing you're proposing is worth millions of our budget and it's wrong money, and fighting things that are ultimately very clear to everyone. You've checked the same guy 17 times. If tomorrow in the upcoming elections in months he shows up for the 18th time, you will call the Commission and get him out. There is this thing on the site, but no, you have to give the Commission the opportunity to gather all the time. That's what this whole game is about. This committee to gather constantly, to take wages, to account for some millions, because there are millions over 4 million each year. It's time to put a point, close this page and move on, because you disgrace people who used to be scouts, and align them with honest snitches. We all know that there are honorary presidents of a party here who were also part of this structure, and they weren't scouts. And you're comparing scouts to these people. You can't equal honest scouts who risked their lives in Turkey, for example, with people who told jokes and brought in that someone told a dirty joke. There's no point in this thing. It's time to close this page. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u77	First line from Vasil Zashkev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here Mr. Ganev said that these are people 75 years old, which is not true at all. An active 25 - year - old is now 57 years old. Many times we are surprised why something happens in a certain way. Well, it must still be because of certain addictions. And the other thing that Mr. Martin Dimitrov just said, I'm going to remind Mr. Ganev. No, the committee will not be assembled, Mr. Ganev, and no funds will be spent. Once this check has been carried out, it will simply be published again when a certain person wants to take up a particular position. And don't speculate on spending money, but since you're a specialist on all matters, you always do. Otherwise, what General Atanasov said, yes, were some scouts, but were they scouts of Bulgaria? That's the big question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u79	Thank you, Mr. Zashkev. Is there a second line to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Here you go, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u80	Mr. Zashkev, it would be more enjoyable to talk about the substance of what you said, not personal attacks, but whatever. There is none, this committee is gathering, the money goes out of our taxpayers' money so that people like you who have declared themselves Democrats and that with everything else they are defending and fighting communism can periodically explain how 70-year-olds were snitches. No, it wasn't, and the money goes to $4 and a half million just this year. Only for this year will they go so you and your formation can go out today or tomorrow and say: here we are again fighting the snitches, look how we are wrestlers. So that you can get out of here tomorrow and say: now we have defeated the snitches, tomorrow we will fight Putin, we will do deputation. But the fact that we didn't reform the judiciary is that we didn't change Geshev, but that we have a parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Change does not matter at all. We're gonna fight snitches, we're gonna fight this so you can fight in the chest how you're gonna hold a deputinization, and then you're gonna come out and clear, and you're gonna explain exactly how you did absolutely nothing, given that you're in charge. Given that you have an e-government minister, you once again want a commission to count cards, to make and spend government money -- $4 and a half million this year alone. And this whole thing is because you're running a bill and spending 32 years of that money so that everything else can be done, but not defending what you came out and commented on. This is your policy of your formation.. combat skeletons. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Personal explanation of Jayhan Ibryamov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Ganev, with your deep respect for you, I assume that you are a reading man, you respect science, you respect the documents, so my personal recommendation, not as a council, a recommendation...................... My duplicate was about heroic resistance, the peaceful heroic resistance of the living and the non-living heroes against the totalitarian state. And from this tribune I will pay tribute, a deep tribute to the inanimate and a deep respect to the living. And colleagues, this is our responsibility and we must protect it for both the memory and the history that democratic Bulgaria has won. This is personal to you, Mr. Ganev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u83	It was a personal explanation. I give the floor to Georgi Svilenski for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, let me remind you that we are at the second reading of the Bill. At first reading, we discussed it, but it can't help but repeat the speeches when the Bill doesn't make sense. It's an absolutely pointless law. For two hours the Bulgarian National Assembly has been dealing with a fictional problem, a fictional case. Two hours the Bulgarian National Assembly does not solve the problems of the Bulgarian citizens, but is trying to solve the problems of some electorates. Dear colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and neither will you inflate your electorate with this bill, nor will we inflate ours by rejecting it. This discussion, which is being held here, is absolutely pointless. The bill. We have made it clear that this committee must be closed and I agree with my fellow Members here. We still have such a bill tabled, I think, in the 44th National Assembly. It needs to be closed down and a national memory institute needs to be established and all that information he has to go there and whoever he cares about gets to know him. You say that the Commission cannot now publish the information on persons shown as collaborators. No, you can't! Maybe every week, if he wants, the Commission can start its first working day with publication of all MPs, councillors, mayors, ministers. Maybe. Why doesn't he? You want this thing. You want to find a job again next I don't know how many years of I don't know how many people to do a meaningless job, to sit down, to get together, to pronounce about the same thing and ask which other regulatory authority in the state is pronounced six times about the same thing to make it the Commission for revealing belonging. Or, as they said here and my colleagues before me, we're just looking for the work of a certain institution. I will again say that these are not the expectations of Bulgarian citizens to see these dependencies. They are expected to see other dependencies after 1990. They are much heavier and much more damage to the Bulgarian society, because these dependencies after 1990 they are not only political, they are economic, they have other dimensions, and no one is talking about them. No, it is not a consequence of the other, because the investigation is until 1990, but after 1990 many other people fell into other dependencies. This is what Bulgarian citizens want to hear. And because I know that what I am going to do as a proposal is contrary to the Rules of the National Assembly, but we have already broken it today, saying that the Bulgarian Parliament can look at amendments to the budget of the National Assembly importers, we said it, put it as point one, so I will propose a single editorial change, Mr President, in § 1, where it says that the Commission for the disclosure of the documents for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens is being closed, etc. A single paragraph. Think of it as an editorial amendment, which calls for the Commission. Then with other laws, with another ZID we will settle what is happening, but let's put an end to it, because every week we will be surpresessed on the first Wednesday by our colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" or by someone else who wants to tighten his electorate with such meaningless bills. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u85	Thank you. Mr. Svilensky, I'm afraid the amendment is not editorial and I'm not very clear on how § 1 can vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u86	He's shutting down the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u87	Think about it a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u88	Let's try it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u89	We'll try, but I'm not sure we can do that by the book. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u90	Mr President, if you allow this proposal to vote, the next proposal will be to amend the budget through this law and the same paragraph. That'll be the next offer. Mr. Svilensky, this may sound very original to invent a rude violation of the Rules, but you are still the chairman of a parliamentary group and whatever emotions you associate with this bill, do not in this rude way violate the Rules. And you, Mr. Chairman, hesitantly said you were wondering how to put it to the vote. Well, there's no way! And the fact that on another occasion someone is going to break the Rules is no reason to try to break it one more time. And otherwise, colleagues, it comes down to this. Okay, you're BSP and rebirth, you're saying that you don't want people to know. It obviously bothers you to know who belongs to State Security. That's your problem, that's your real problem, you don't want people to know, because tomorrow there will be local elections, there will be thousands of candidates. If you have to look for them one by one in a register, it is clear that this will not do the same thing. That's the whole point. And since you can't say here before the National Assembly, we don't want people to know who belongs to DHS, you found the following excuse: it cost money, but what to collect, but this committee had a budget, why spend money on such things! In fact, the whole thing, colleagues, is about this issue: do we want a society to be informed, or do we not want it to be informed? But there's a sad shade. The sad nuance, fellow Members, is that until recently there was consensus in this Parliament. We believe that Bulgarian society should know who has done what for State Security, what actions he has done there, to be announced, and that people should then assess whether such a person can, for example, be supported for a public post. The new position, unfortunately, of colleagues at this meeting, is that they no longer want people to know, they want this information not to be announced and say so: it was declared for example 20 years ago for one person not to be declared anymore. So, my fellow Members, in the end, the most important question, first, Mr President, regardless of your belonging to a particular political party, is to follow the rules today and tomorrow. Because if we don't follow the rules today and tomorrow, I wouldn't be surprised...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u91	What's tomorrow, Mr. Dimitrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u92	We have important votes tomorrow, Mr. Chairman. We'll talk again when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u93	Yeah, then your time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u94	So I hope, as my time has passed, that you will follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u95	Of course, I always follow the rules. Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Svilensky, with all due respect to you, I have something important to tell you. All newly appointed officers in the intelligence services of communist Bulgaria are required to take a 6-month course, training, at KGB schools in the Soviet Union. This is arranged by a decision of the Politburo, I don't remember his number. Why am I telling you this? I know this environment well, I have worked in these services since 1989. And now, when one of the sharpest problems, publicly discussed not only in Bulgaria, but in the democratic world, is the war in Ukraine, do you know what I see? All those who went to schools in the Soviet Union explain publicly that NATO has attacked Russia. That's what this is about. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Svilensky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atanasov, back and forth I will respond to the lines. You don't think that with this law, by accepting it or not accepting it, we will change our mind whether NATO has attacked Russia. You don't think these generals who served in the KGB did you say where they'd change now because we'd pass this law every week the Commission would say! [[DB lines.]] You know that, guys! I say again: you know, for each one of us we know more than we should. It's known more than we ourselves think we know about us and society knows more. I'm telling you again: a fictional law, a false law for the sole purpose of pumping. But unfortunately, as you can see, the results do not show that these pumps produce results for you (to DB) as well as for us. So I absolutely don't see what you don't agree with in your line? Mr. Dimitrov, I say again: Bulgarian society is informed. We want the Bulgarians to know, but to know other things and not to concern them only with these things. And because you're right, what I suggested is against the law. I am pleased, however, that it has impressed you, you are obviously worried that this committee will be closed, so now, in order to enter the Rules and be really editorial, Mr President, I will suggest in the title, as we are discussing the title of the Law, that it will be done by the Law for amendment in the Law for annulment of the Law for access and disclosure of the documents of the State Security. That is, we are adding one word, editorially....... and this I now think that by putting it to the vote, you will not violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. And I withdraw the previous proposal, which was out of range. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) The line of the National Representative Toma Bikov.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u99	You have a statement, yes, but first Professor Mihailov is on the list I have. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're right behind Professor Mikhailov. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! So far, indeed, two hours, as all the chairmen have called for, we are not moving on the texts of the Bill, but mainly political qualifications and speeches are being made. Maybe I won't make an exception either, because here I remember Mr. Dimitrov's words that ultimately the goal is to find out who is for, who is against, who wants to hide the truth and who is not. In my experience as a doctor, there is a concept that is very well known in medicine: deja vu, from first reading, when here we exchanged lines and replicas with the Chairman of the Union of Democratic Forces. Now I want to remind those who are talking about the past and the wardrobes and what can come out of them, and about Pandora's box, that if we open the closets of all the political parties here, including those who headed the changes after 10 November, so many skeletons we'll pull out that says: BCP, KDS, that you'll get sick. You're gonna be sick! And that's what you were told at first reading. The fourth power that is watching us right now and probably ironing us, each of us, every candidate for municipal councillor, for some post, it lights it up instantly. Once he's out as an employee of the relevant secret service, she lights him up immediately in the press, in the media, all kinds of electronic media, and he can't hide. And that's what you were told by other colleagues. And we continue for two hours with so many problems, said the other MPs, in the state, we now squirm one another, members of the same coalition to remember what happened. If I were to come into memories of that time, how I was denied a passport to leave the People's Republic of Bulgaria, then how I was sent to the head of the Passport Department, how I saw contributions against me what I had done in the German Democratic Republic. So that's what I'm gonna tell you? What information is written against me at Homeland Security! [[DB lines.]] No, no, no! The important thing is to realize that once upon a time, it's gone, that it's actually... I would like to remind you, as someone I respect very much, General Atanasov, do you remember where he wanted to be buried? In the Men's Memorial, participants in the Civil War against him in order to have reconciliation in this nation at last, Spanish! And there's still no reconciliation there! We keep digging into each other and we don't look for reconciliation after all these years! May I remind you of the regime in Greece that fell 1968? What confrontation was there in Greece then, what consequences did the fall of this military regime have? May I remind you of the end of World War II in Italy how many people have been hanged upside down? Because sometimes there's talk of the People's Court here! In France, they were killed as collaborators of the pro-fascist regime without trial and a sentence of about 150,000. people after World War II. So in the area, in the conversation as politicians about reconciliation of the nation, about its constructive future, we need to turn to the real memories. Not just from 1944 to 1989 what happened! Shall I remind you of the children killed before 1944? Should I remind you of the severed heads before 1944 and those photographed with them, with the bulging heads, in a regime that you bless and say was prosperous for Bulgaria? So let's be correct about each other.. We are heading forward in the interests of the state. I have a procedural proposal, and that concludes, Mr. Chairman, since we are at second reading, to stop the speeches, to vote, as Mr. Dimitrov said, and will see who wants to do what and how he will do it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines? I can't see. For a line? Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the memories of which Professor Mihailov mentioned and what Mr. Svilenski said about what the Bulgarian people are interested in. The Bulgarian people, and I will refresh the memory of the colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" with all due respect to them, the Bulgarian people really care who robbed the country after 1990. The Bulgarian people are interested, for example, in the mayor of Traycho Traykov as Minister of Energy and Economy, was he a shareholder of a company of DPS' favorite and my favorite Prokopiev? Was he involved in robbing the underground riches of Bulgaria? To give you only a period of two years, he's...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u103	Mr. Georgiev, we're getting a little off topic here, quite a bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u104	Yeah, yeah, we're talking about memories. He was involved in the looting of profits, which had to go to the state budget of 30 million. BGN, profit growth, where there are no drugs and weapons. So these are the memories. People want to know who robbed Bulgaria after 1990. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines? A hole, Mr. Mikhailov? No. Thank you. A procedural proposal has been made, which I must put to the vote, but I just want to say that, as we proceed, there are three more registered for speech and if the discussion is stopped, we still have to give these three people the opportunity to speak, and these are Mr. Slavov, Mr. Kostadinov and Mr. Bikov. [[Reply of National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] The procedure is to end discussions on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u106	Who did this?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u107	Professor Mikhailov did it. The discussion was a little freer, as we comment on all the paragraphs of the bill, including the title. Please vote on a vote procedure. We are voting for an end to the debate on the bill. Vote 119 MPs: 114 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. As I have announced, I now give the floor to Mr. Slavov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, indeed today's debate is going as a debate at first reading, and that is not bad because reminding the facts is important. The reminder of why this law was created 15 years ago, and was created by the Triple Coalition with the support of the then opposition, and the Triple Coalition included BSP, DPS and NDSV. And today we hear that BSP and DPS are against their creation.. The Act for Disclosure of State Security Documents. This also tells us much about the evolution of Bulgarian society in the last 15 years after our accession to the European Union. But ultimately, why do we need this law and why do we keep insisting that it not only needs to be complemented by these editorial proposals, but that it needs to be developed? The Commission must be supported because it has not yet completed its mission. Bulgarian society had no lustration, no convictions for crimes and abuse of power during communism, no restored sense of justice in relation to totalitarian regime. The only way for the Bulgarian society to rule on our nearest past is in fact the information it receives under this law and the possibility with its attitude towards one or another candidate to make such an assessment.. to deliver a public sentence for our nearest past. However, we need to remind you: the people who were collaborators and agents of State Security, their lives did not stop in 1990, their lives continued and often their lives continued as lustrous businessmen, as oligarchs, as people from the pressure equipment, the known goons in the first years of transition, as heads of execution squads and so on. The life of many employees of the Communist regime continued in the new democratic conditions, created new dependencies that continue to obey the Bulgarian society. So talking about files in that sense isn't a conversation about the past. This is a conversation about the present, about those dependencies that continue to entangle the Bulgarian society and do not allow it to completely, strategically break away from the influence of the forces associated with the former regime. And this is not an attack on BSP, I say it most responsiblely. A long time ago, many of the former State Security officials changed loyalty, changed loyalty several times, swore allegiance in one direction or another, swore allegiance to foreign forces, but continued to influence the development of Bulgarian society. Therefore, we need to know, if there are dependencies in the past today, how they have developed since then, and make our assessment as citizens in one, God willing, free and democratic society, whether these people will be able to take up a particular political position, or not be able to take up this political position. At least this is what we owe to the Bulgarian society to interrupt the addictions of the past, to interrupt the addictions of these 30 years in order to live more freely in a more free society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u109	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We're moving on to the next speech. Mr. Kostadinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u110	Mr. President, we have listened here to some very heavy and juicy political declarations in the discussion of the second reading of the Bill, and therefore there is no way I cannot help but recall some historical truths that are easily passed here. It was said that the communist regime was declared criminal and therefore the people who worked during the Communist Party's rule should also be seen in the same way. However, it is good to see the practice in our Euro-Atlantic partners and the people who are actually dictating fashion in the so-called democratic world. I don't know, I, if there's a democratic, there should be an undemocratic, but whatever. Let us see how and how intelligence services were created in all Western European countries, but above all, let us say two of them, which were at the heart of the Trilateral Pact in Europe, namely: Germany and Italy. In 1946, German intelligence and counterintelligence were created by Major General Reinhard Gelen, who was head of the Wehrmacht's intelligence service on the Eastern Front and for three years he was head of command of the foreign group of armies on the Eastern Front. From 1946 to 1962 he attracted first 50 in 1946, until the end of the year another 400, until the end of 1948 another four thousand former employees of the Wehrmacht, of the Abvert-s Military Intelligence of Hitlerist Germany, of the SS, Gestapo, CD, SA, all kinds of secrets and not so secret Hitlerist organizations. In other words, Germany's intelligence service is tracking and continuing the activities of Hitlerist Germany. And this happened not at the request of Germany itself, which in 1946 did not exist as a state, but by recruiting these people or turning over by the American secret services and then the already created CIA. In other words, the Stojeers of the democratic world, the rehearsals of Euro-Atlantism, the creators of modern democracy are supposed to be the ones who create the modern intelligence service of Germany, using all kinds of former Hitlerist, Nazi secret services one to one. It's the same thing with Italy. All officers of Italian intelligence during Mussolini became employees of the Italian intelligence service after 1946. The paradox is that all of them were monarchists, but maintained their positions after Italy became a republic, although there was a referendum in this direction. The argument that if you see, since there was such a law adopted in 2000, it should therefore be reasoned in this way, is quite infantile. I will immediately say that we can, as soon as next year, at a new position of the forces in parliament, vote on the same law which will accept as a criminal regime that governs Bulgaria after 1989. Should we, by the same logic, bring out the people who worked for the services after 1989? Although, as is well known, our services currently have more foreign agents than Bulgarian. The truth is, every country needs secret services. The truth is that regardless of who rules this country, whether they are people who like us or not, it must have people who are loyal to the state and not to the rulers of this country. The idealistic approach is somehow quite outdated by some 33 years. From this point of view, it is really extremely funny to comment on a question that I think has long since commented on the demographic itself. Here we will not argue about how old they were, how old they were and how old they would be, and 50, 60 and so on. The fact is, however, that by reaching out to the Bulgarian intelligence services after 1989 we have come to the point that they currently have a huge problem recruiting their quality personnel, because the first question they ask anyone who tries to recruit someone for the Bulgarian services, the first question the recruiter receives is: do you guarantee me that my name will not come up one day? Naturally, such a response cannot be given in a positive direction, and in this case, however promising the candidate, he is giving up work at the Offices. As a result, if we see the way our services work, nothing is different from those who read newspapers and translate the clippings later into foreign embassies. So it is right, however, when we talk about this subject, to remind ourselves of some historical facts to know that we are talking here once again about hypocrisy and an attack on our own sovereign sovereignty. Because, once again, I say I will end it, regardless of who rules a country and whether we like this ruler, the state needs services. The state needs the police, the state needs everything it needs to end or at least prevent attempts to harm the national interests of the state. Another question is, if national traitors are at the head of the state and they are already the people who are giving quite different signals to the government in these services. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. And the final statement, Mr. Bikov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It was said here that the debate was pointless. I don't think it's pointless at all. First of all, one of his results is that colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" realized that BSP are heirs of the former Communist Party, which is not a small discovery of the sixth month of government. [[Radio and applause by GERB-SDS.]] The BSP colleagues found out that they have entered a coalition with an anti-communist formation that will even deputize Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u113	Essentially, Mr. Bikov, it's second reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u114	The debate... Because everyone was talking about the debate about what it was.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u115	Yeah, yeah, but still.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u116	From there on, the amendments to this law are not essential except for the one Mr. Svilenski made to close the Commission for the disclosure of the files, the other is rather a technical matter. It may be important in some way, but it is not fundamental to the importance of this committee in society and at all to political life. Keep something else in mind. That is why we have kept silent because we did not know what to say in this debate, in which you, Mr President, called me to address the substance, but there were almost no substantive statements, and so...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u117	Do it by the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u118	...I have an influence at the end of the day to be adequate to the debate, because if I come to the point right now, I'll look inadequate.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u119	You can be distinguished.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u120	That's how this job happened. And in this sense, colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, you should know that there are collaborators of State Security in the ruling majority, I do not know what lustrations you will do, but know that once in a while you are supported by such people who you think are dependent on something. I have no doubt that the archives of State Security, firstly, as part of Bulgarian history, as part of the past should be opened, should have access to them all who are interested, especially the scientific community, because the past is ultimately a matter of history and scientists and not so much of politicians. For me, this big debate is really aimed at showing their identities to some of the formations in the ruling majority who may have been worried that they had lost them. Finally, let us take this topic, which is regularly placed at such moments and around it to remind us who are the communists and who are the anti-communists in Bulgaria. I don't think he'll do who knows what kind of work in this debate. Our parliamentary group, you can see that it is not deeply mobilized at the moment by the debate because, firstly, there are importers. We have said from the beginning of this Parliament that whoever asks for our support can ask for it, however, to do it publicly, not in the hallways in the first place, and in the second time, to say that it wants it. If someone didn't ask for our support, I don't know why they expect to get it. There was talk of watersheds here... Again, you the watershed passed it six months ago when you joined a coalition with BSP. There's been talk of consensus... That it didn't just break this consensus. You, if you've been watching for the last six months, there's almost no consensus left. And for the euro the consensus has broken, and for State Security will probably break, and finally even if you will, perhaps for the civilisational choice in front of the wall will break, but you are counting on us to perhaps now support your proposal, and we are not at the coalition councils, who will support you there is the question? At your coalition councils held every week, who supports you? We're not mobilized...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u121	Mr. Bikov, very broad reasoning already, please still...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u122	I'm saying how we're gonna vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u123	You say that, but you explain too...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u124	Colleagues who feel that they should support this law can support it, and I will vote just as I choose, Mr. Atanasov. [[Replications by National Representative Atanas Atanasov]] Because they tell me how to vote my constituents, you don't tell me. As your constituents should tell you, only you voted for a government with the participation of BSP, and we all know that if we're going to have 10 debates to do here. Thank you. [[Replications from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u125	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. First line: Georgi Svilenski, second line - Nastimir Ananiev, third line - Iskren Mitev. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bikov, don't worry about the government. This is not the subject that will bring down the government. This is not the topic that will divide the ruling parties. Don't worry. The coalition is stable. This shows the management of the state. And that there are such conversations, they are inevitable. However, this coalition to happen in such a format, the reason is only you 12 years of GERB management. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the only reason we have a coalition in this format, with such a coalition formula and with such a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Ananiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u128	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bikov! Yes, you said, "Debate is not pointless. " It is absolutely not pointless. You are also talking about adequacy, but the adequacy of GERB will see it in the vote because in the previous vote you were about 50 people, and now I see a dozen. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Well, there's three of you, there's no problem with that thing. But it's very interesting, you always like to express one opinion and show one way, and in fact your behavior is completely different. It is the same when you are trying to show yourself as a pro-Western party, but the actions of your leader and other people are not in that direction. The same was your statement from the stands. You said: "You will see how I and my constituents will vote, I will check how you voted, because what you said, and you said that the problem with State Security is in the past, but in fact with this law that we are voting now, we show that there is a problem with the people of State Security at the moment. That doesn't matter. The point is, when you say it's in the past and we have to leave it to historians, we'll see how you vote. You will contradict yourself, especially if you support it, but I am interested in your group as fighters against everything else how they will vote and how many people will vote because five people, by voting for, waving the flag that you have voted... The other thing you said was about communists and anti-communists. Somehow you're trying to make this division. Well, there are a lot of members of Homeland Security with both of them. Whether you're a communist or an anti-communist wasn't important whether you were a member of State Security or not. In fact, this division that goes through has nothing to do with being a snitch, selling yourself to someone and reporting on your loved ones, friends and relatives what they were doing, so we've heard some pretty serious schizophrenia, but we'll see the vote. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Mitev has the floor for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear guests! [[It addresses the guests of the balcony.]] Happy Thanksgiving to all the kids! [[Applause.]] Mr. Bikov, you said that several things have become clear from this tribune. I also want to say from this rather extended debate a few things that have become clear to me personally. Just to support you that some things have become clear. It became clear that Mr. Koppekin betrayed the people because he bought a house with their money, the money he had left, he turned it into euros... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u131	Mr. Mitev, I don't know who you're talking about...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u132	...is vaccinated and finally raised a map to show that he is more human than others. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u133	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. [[The National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov is going to the stands.]] Mr. Kostadinov, wait. [[Laughter]] Wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u134	This guy's asshole. [[shows to the middle of the hall]] If nothing else, I'll break his nose...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u135	Calm down! Don't! Sit down! [[National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov is going to his place.]] Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Svilensky... [[The National Representative Kostadin Kostadinov is headed to the National Representative Iskren Mitev.]] ... Now I'm losing focus here... [[(Noise, lines and shouts:) Fight between the MPs Iskren Mitev and Kostadin Kostadinov.)]] Bravo! [[Other MPs divide the contestants. The Quaestors are interfering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u137	Please, colleagues! Hold on, Mr. Bikov. Guys, we're embarrassing ourselves in front of the guests, if nothing else. [[Noise and lines.]] I noted that Mr. Mitev's words are not clear to whom they are addressed, but I think there is no way we can continue the meeting right now. I'm giving it till 12:00. And just to inform you that an exhibition under the title is opened: The history of the Mother's Home. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u138	We're continuing the hearing. I would like to inform you that this situation, which occurred before the break, will be examined at the Presidency Council and I suggest that we no longer discuss what happened here, and once we have also clarified what really happened, because it was not evident from my position. I give the floor to Mr. Bikov for his duplicate, with which we end the debates, and then we move on to voting on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't think my coat will be that interesting against the backdrop of what's happening, but I'm still going to take this opportunity. First, to Mr. Ananiev, who, as I understand it, tried to test us who would vote. Firstly, to say that GERB will support this proposal. We're gonna do it the way we've done it in the last six months. We're taking you out of your situations with our voices, so don't worry. The question is to realize, Mr. Ananiev, and your ruling majority, how long will you rely on GERB to get you out of these situations because you have failed to convince your coalition partners to do so again. And when you're very sharp and big fighters against State Security, and you're testing us here who's going to vote for some technical text, start testing your BSP colleagues, because you're going to coalition councils with them, and I don't know who's helping you take over. To Mr. Mitev. I'm not gonna answer his line because I'm afraid he's gonna ask for a procedure in the way he's supposed to. [[Laughter]] To Mr. Svilensky. I thank you for bringing us into the history of our 12 years. It is only a matter of time before it becomes before GERB and after GERB, as before the New Age and after the New Age. You live in our time. Welcome, we're happy to welcome you. This will not change the way in which you do it by repeating it for 12 years, 12 years and the only thing you achieve is to insinuate to the entire Bulgarian people that 12 years ago a change has started, which will continue to this day and which will continue probably for the next 12, 15, 20, 30 years, and there is nothing wrong with that. One more time. We will support this proposal, but this will not solve your big problems. Your big problems are that you have made an unprincipled management in which one with one you cannot understand, and because of that, our agenda is such that if people watch what we do, they will probably realize that we do nothing. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. That was the last statement. Debates terminated. Let's move on to the vote. There is a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov for editing of para. 6 in § 3. Do I need to read it again? [[Heckling]] Yeah, okay. What I have before me is this: a new para is being created. 6 and the text acquires the following form: a letter of notice shall be issued by the President of the Commission indicating the number of the previous decision. The letter is also published on the Commission's website in order to respect the protection of personal data. I'm going to take the liberty here instead of a web site to suggest that it be a web page because I think that's the correct term. [[Heckling]] "Internet page" okay, "Internet page" and not "web site" but the content is clear. I put the proposal to the vote first, which I have just read about as para. 6. They voted 133 MPs: 1 against 65, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. There was a proposal by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski in the title................................................................................................... My fellow Members, I intend not to put this proposal to a vote, because the title, if it is adopted, will of course not correspond to the content, and I think we should still show respect for the legislative process. Since the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) is in principle for the annulment of this law, I believe that it should submit such a Law for amendment and supplement to repeal this Law (BSP) we cannot resolve this with the title. What I will do is put the title to the vote separately and then the other texts separately. So, please vote. [[Heckling]] A procedure perhaps of some kind? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand your desire to comply with the Rules as much as possible, but I still think my proposal does not contradict the Rules. However, since you claim that the eventually adopted title, as I suggested, will contradict the basic text of the Law, I think that the basic text of the Law contradicts the reality in which we live, and it makes no sense at all to... I do not know how to put it to a separate vote, except to put my proposal and accordingly to abolish the whole law and the subject of this thing, which contradicts or does not conform to the everyday life of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I think... Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, and now let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a reverse offer. I hope you will make the sensible and correct decision, because you are demonstrating such an approach, Mr President. Mr. Svilenski has made a proposal that is not only beyond the scope of our Rules, but beyond the scope of parliamentary procedure at all. An editorial change cannot be made at the second vote, in quotes, which will eliminate a whole law, which is considered at first and second reading in the committees. Therefore, Mr. Svilensky, I support President Vigenin in finding that it follows, if you wish to make such a legislative initiative, to do it in accordance with the order required by the law, although you have demonstrated his complete non-compliance in the last six months. I speak to you as a ruling majority. Mr. Vigenin seems to be making an exception. In this sense, Mr Vigenin, I oppose in general the opportunities that your colleagues in the parliamentary group are looking for, including the chair of your parliamentary group, in order to further confuse the House in the possible upcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. With these arguments, I was not convinced that editorial was a proposal to repeal a law at second reading. Again, let's show some respect for the legislative process. It is a missed opportunity to do this with a proposal before the examination between first and second readings, so it remains the option to vote against the title and therefore to submit a bill which I am prepared to sign for the annulment of this law. So, I'm voting on the name of the Law. They voted 143 MPs: 98, against 44, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer, § 2 and § 3 in the version of the Commission. 120 MPs voted: 78 against 42, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Vote 96 MPs: 77 against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO STATEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES BY THE EARTH MINISTER FOR THE SELECTION OF STATE. 163 OF THE Law of the Forests. It is the turn of the parliamentary group of the party ARCHIVER....................................................................................... to present the draft decision. [[(Replication by BSP for Bulgaria]] You want to check the quorum? Accepted yes, for better or for worse, the numbers support acceptance. You are welcome to present the draft decision on item two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, this draft decision has one main objective which is determined by a single motive and it is called "publicity." State-owned forest enterprises have a single-level governance structure. The Management Board of State-owned enterprises shall consist of three members, including the Director of the enterprise. In accordance with art. 169, para. 2 of the Forest Law, the Minister of Agriculture shall conclude a management contract for a period of five years with each member of the Management Board. The contract with the Director of the State Enterprise shall be concluded following a competition. According to § 3, para. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises adopted in 2019 within one year of the entry into force of the law, the compositions of public undertakings' management and control bodies shall be aligned with its requirements. With the latest amendment to the provision of § 3, para. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions in force from 10 November 2020, within 16 months of the entry into force of the Law, the compositions of the bodies of management and control of public undertakings shall be aligned with its requirements. That deadline has already expired. In this regard, we propose the following draft decision to announce competition procedures by the Minister of Agriculture for the selection of directors of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Law: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 168, p. Art. 1 and Art. 1 169, para. 1 of the Forest Law, Art. 21 of the Public Enterprise Act HAS DECIDED 1. Within 15 working days, the Minister of Agriculture shall announce competitions for directors of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Law: (a) Northwest State Enterprise; (b) North Central State Enterprise; (c) North-Eastern State Enterprise; (d) South-Eastern State enterprise; (e) South-West State Enterprise; (f) Southern Central State Enterprise. 2. The competitions shall be held in the presence and with the participation of the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u146	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I am now giving the floor to the representatives of the committees, respectively, and there is no report from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, but there is a report from the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Here you are, Mr. Abrovsky, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a draft decision to announce competition procedures by the Minister of Agriculture for the selection of directors of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Act, No 47-254-02-55, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs On 4 May 2022, the Council adopted Regulation The Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry held a meeting on 25 May 2022 discussing the draft decision cited. The meeting was attended by: engineer Valentin Chambov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Engineer Veselin Ninov, Director of Northwestern State Enterprise, Engineer Tsvetelin Milanov, Director of North Central State Enterprise, and Engineer Damian Damyanov, Director of Southwestern State Enterprise. The draft decision was presented by the MP Daniel Petrov, who explained that according to the latest amendments of § 3, para. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Enterprises Act, which is in force from 10 November 2020, within 16 months of the entry into force of the Act, the compositions of the management and control bodies of public undertakings should be aligned with its requirements. This period has already expired and the project is therefore proposed within 15 working days that the Minister of Agriculture announces competitions for directors of all state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Law. In order to ensure greater publicity and transparency of competitions, these should take place in the presence and with the participation of the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Commission received an opinion from the Ministry of Agriculture explaining the administrative order in which the appointment of directors of state-owned enterprises is carried out, which according to art. 169, para. 1 of the Forest Law are also members of the board of directors. In order to be appointed, persons should meet the requirements of art. 171, para. 2 for education and professional experience. The selection and appointment shall be carried out by the Minister of Agriculture, who, as management body and exercising the ownership rights of the State in state-owned enterprises shall appoint and dismiss the members of the board of directors according to art. 168, p. 3. The Minister of Agriculture shall conclude a management contract for a period of five years with each member of the Board of Directors on the basis of art. 169, para. 2 of the Law on Forests and Art. 21, para. 1 of the Public Enterprise Act, the contract with the Director of the State Enterprise is concluded after a competition. At present, four of the six state-owned enterprises have had competitions under the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Forests. These are the North-West State-owned enterprise of Vratsa, the North-Central State-owned enterprise of Gabrovo, the North-Eastern State-owned company of Shumen, and the South-West State-owned enterprise of Blagoevgrad. The winners have concluded management contracts with a duration of five years that expire 2026. The directors of the South-Eastern State Enterprise, the city of Sliven, and the Southern Central State Enterprise, meet the requirements laid down in the Public Enterprises Act and in the Forest Act regarding directors and members of the Boards of Directors. They are appointed without a competition procedure with management contracts concluded with a period until a competition under art. 21, para. 1 of the Public Enterprises Act and the signing of a management contract with the winner of the competition. The competition procedure may take place within two months. The Ministry of Agriculture notes that the submitted draft decision constitutes an intervention of the legislative authority in the powers of an executive body, replaced by a law. They note that the adoption of the draft decision would call into question the regularity and legality of the procedures for the selection of directors of state-owned enterprises as it introduces a deadline for their conduct and the inclusion in the competition committee of representatives who are not legally established. They also pay attention to the lack of legal basis for the termination of existing management contracts with duly selected directors as a result of a competition. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from the People's Republic of Bulgaria continued the change, GERB-SDZ and BSP for Bulgaria.The National Assembly should respect the legal order and carry out its constitutionally held control functions in relation to the executive, without taking over its powers. They noted that the Minister should be responsible for the team he works with and for the decisions taken. They defined as poor practice the early termination of the mandate of directors appointed as a result of competitions carried out in accordance with the requirements, and the proposal for the participation of members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the procedures for the selection of directors of state enterprises as a gross interference in the activities of the executive. According to the parliamentary group, there is such a people in the implementation of the decision, the minister will have to conduct new competition procedures for selecting directors, as has already been done within the office. They noted that the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry do not have the capacity and should not participate directly in them, but in order to ensure transparency, competitions can be held in the presence of the Commission's MPs at one of its meetings, which are broadcast directly and online. This will allow interviews and concepts of candidates to become public and will ensure that the Bulgarian forest is managed by competent people. They pointed out that there is no obstacle for current directors to also participate in the competition procedures. From the parliamentary group of the party ARCHIVE note that the 16-month term under the Public Enterprises Act has expired, but competitions have not yet been held for 14 members of the board of state enterprises. In this regard, the executive power was required to comply with the law and, in addition to the directors, within the scope of the decision to conduct competition procedures to include the members of the board of directors. The proposal was not supported by the Commission. In the course of the discussion, an extension of the deadline for the conduct of the contests was also proposed, which was also rejected. After the debates, the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forests with 2 votes in favour, 7 votes in opposition and 7 votes in abstention proposed that the National Assembly not adopt a draft decision to announce competition procedures by the Minister of Agriculture for the selection of directors of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Act, No 47-254-02-55, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 4 May 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u148	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. I'm opening the debate on the draft decision. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, first of all, if you'll allow me, if I've offended someone or slightly pushed them, I apologize for the events just now. I must offer you my apologies after all. I believe that such scenes should not happen in the National Assembly building, so that I may meet your support and not allow such unpleasant scenes to happen in the future. With regard to the submitted draft decision. As stated in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on State Enterprises, competitions for management, for the management bodies of state-owned enterprises should be held within a 16-month period, not only for directors but also for members of management boards. Each of these six enterprises has two members of the Board of Directors, plus the Director becomes three. The 16-month period expired on 10 March this year without such competitions being held for all six state-owned enterprises, i.e. the Law is currently being violated. It is being violated because the Ministry of Agriculture does not conduct such competitions and does not hold such competitions. What's the reason? Always in Bulgaria the reason is one reason is money and it is about money. For clarification only, it should be noted that competitions for four directors were announced during the caretaker government, not as members of board members of these six state-owned enterprises, but note, having been appointed with the respective competitions, two of them were subsequently replaced. So at present it is really important to comply with the Law and to conduct the relevant competitions not only for four of the directors of these six state-owned enterprises, but also for another 12 members of the management bodies. It is no accident that the legislator has set a deadline and the implementation of the law is not just a wish in the Republic of Bulgaria, but the implementation of the law is an obligation for the executive. Unfortunately, as the current executive has nothing to do with it, we, as MPs, have to submit a draft decision to force the executive to carry out its duties by law, which to me is some kind of oxymoron. At the very least, it is not right for the legislature to pressure the executive to comply with a law already infringed. Once again, I point out that on 10 March the deadline for conducting such competitions has expired and that we need to enter into a situation which I believe is atypical for the National Assembly. But since we have no other mechanism to influence the executive, we have tabled this draft decision, which is why we want the Minister of Agriculture to announce such competitions within 15 days, to appoint the relevant committee. And not only that, the MPs, who are part of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry, may at least attend these competitions for their publicity and transparency. Because this is what some of the MPs said, who announced to us that there will be a change from the management of GERB, the previous government, that there will be publicity and that there will be transparency? Well, then let me ask you, when you came to power with these slogans: where is publicity and transparency when the Law is not respected, the Law is currently being broken since March 10th, and we have no publicity and transparency? Where are they?! These competitions should be announced, they should be held, the relevant directors should not only be appointed, but also members of the board of directors! In transparent procedures, with the presence of the MPs, to give a clear signal to the Bulgarian society that such a desired change will happen. Of course, and those of the current directors who meet the criteria to appear at a competition, there is no problem to appear and be elected by the relevant committee. But not to have the current situation, when some people are fired, others are appointed without competition until the possible holding of this competition in the future. That is, we do not know when the Law will actually be implemented and we need to submit such draft decisions with the instruments of the Constitution which, again, I say, should not be our main subject of activity. However, since the executive has nothing to do with this, and we have to observe compliance with the Law, I will ask you to support this draft decision on the election of the management bodies of the six state-owned enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I do not know how many of you are aware of this, but the Bulgarian forest, apart from a wonderful natural gift that we have, represents a huge financial resource. Due to the recent reports of the brutal theft of this forest, illegal logging and the violation of all environmental standards, our civil society has become extremely sensitive to the Bulgarian forest. I don't know if you're aware of this, but in 2020, when the first competitions for business directors and board members took place, me and my colleagues tried to appeal the procedures. And I would like to say that the first procedures that were done were extremely opaque! No one had any idea what was going on inside the committees. No one could understand what the views were, what the opinions were, who the members of the competition committee were. That is why I believe that such a decision, if supported, will guarantee the Bulgarian society that the people who represent the minister in the management of the Bulgarian forest will be absolutely honest! It will ensure that Bulgarian society can see with its own eyes who the state chooses to preserve one of the most beautiful natural resources we have, namely the Bulgarian forest. So I will support the draft of this decision because it is extremely important for me as MPs to be able to guarantee absolute publicity of these contests. We need to know what the competition committee is, if it has the capacity of this competition committee, is this competition committee independent enough? We need to see who the candidates are, see what they say, see their opinions, see their visions for the development of the Bulgarian forest. For me, except for directors of state forest enterprises public competitions must also be held for members of all management boards! As the previous colleague said, we have a precedent during the caretaker government, where appointed directors and board members were suspended their mandates and new ones were scheduled. So from a legal and moral point of view, we have no problem holding, ensuring that such types of competitions are held. For this reason, Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a few proposals for amendments to the draft decision tabled so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u152	Make them. If you give them to me in writing, it would be best.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u153	In the title above, where the legal grounds are, after the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria................................................................................................. One hundred and twenty-four thousand pounds, one hundred and forty thousand pounds, and one hundred and forty pounds, and one hundred and forty thousand pounds, and one hundred and forty pounds, and one hundred and forty pounds. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 I think that the 15-day deadline is very short, we should give the Minister a 30-day period so that he can choose a commission, announce the competitions and prepare himself. And I think that, after............................. and members of the management boards....................................................................... A t. 2 to ensure absolute constitutionality, to acquire the following form: "2." With a view to ensuring transparency and publicity, the competitions will be held in the presence of members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry at one of its meetings. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u154	However, I would ask that you give it to me in writing as part of the discussion. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today will obviously be another day where we will deal with things that do not concern Bulgarian citizens. And since there is nothing to do, we are starting to propose crazy decisions.. the Bulgarian Parliament to take a decision to assign the Minister of Agriculture to schedule a competition in which members of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry will also participate. What if tomorrow, if the name of this committee is changed, because now you're going to write it down in a decision that is the law, which tomorrow can become the Committee on Agriculture and Food, stop the competitions, what happens? Colleagues, we're MPs. Our constitution has clearly written down what we should do, what we should do. You started to deal with the competitions that also with the members of the competition committees! I can't understand the thought that goes in the minds of the people who offer these things and what they want! Get out there and tell me what's bothering you, where your shoe is tightening! Don't bring in the National Assembly. I was accused by the President before that I violate the Rules, well, yes, I break it, but you're pushing it. You're not breaking it! Show me a decision in the 31-year history of this parliament after 1989 to have made such a decision that the MPs assign the Minister to hold a contest in which MPs will participate! [[Reply from the National Representative Branimir Balachev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u156	You can talk later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u157	So I urge you to conclude this discussion more quickly, to move on to voting, rejection and to move on to an agenda that may eventually reach a point that concerns the problems of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u158	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilensky, listen carefully when I speak. The proposal is to be held in the presence, not to be members of parliament! The members of the Commission will appoint them to the Minister. We simply want to have the opportunity to participate in the competition to ensure absolute publicity. Because in 2020, when the competitions took place, they were absolutely in the dark! I would like to point out that the competitions held for the previous two directors were also in the dark. So I don't see what's bothering you about publicity and transparency and online broadcasting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u160	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for submitting this draft decision is our desire to implement proper and transparent competition procedures for directors of state forest enterprises and management bodies. The published information lacks data on the composition of the committee that evaluates candidates, there is no protocol with their description. These are very high state positions and it is appropriate to have more information about the candidates, and from the published scarce we have reason to doubt the transparency of the appointments. There is no information available on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture on the admission to oral part of candidates, and two candidates in 2021 have the protocols every seven months for the same competition procedure. We do not claim that there is abuse of state appointments.................................................................................................... The general impression of the published information is that part of it is missing and is hiding for a number of reasons that we are spinning the same people and that for two of the six enterprises we do not yet have the right people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Dunchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u163	Dear colleagues! This is a topic that is very relevant. I will vote abstention for the following reasons. First of all, I fully support my fellow Members that they need competitions that should be as transparent as possible, public, with participation as an option, is not necessarily a matter of witnessing members of the National Assembly. I fully support that as urgently as possible competitions should be made for board members, where for several months now, even up to a year, their stay. However, the main reason for me to vote is that we cannot solve the problem in a piece. On May 4th, with colleague Zornitsa Stratieva from the "Democratic Bulgaria" we tabled proposals that may be nice to develop them with all of you, because they are cardinal, for policies with the construction and competitions in general for the entire state administration and public enterprises in Bulgaria, so that we can solve the problem cardinally. It concerns all citizens because the management of all resources in Bulgaria from these enterprises and from these leading state institutions concerns each of us. The problem with the six business directors I can tell you what two of them are without competition, yes, it is nice to have a competition soon, but the other four are past competitions. And now we say with our decision: let's go to a competition again, it's a bit like political pressure that we're trying to avoid... we have to be principled and horizontal. That is why it was a good proposal by Abrovski to include the idea to oblige competitions for the board and other members. Only for those four who have last year's competitions, what's the problem? The problem with them is that I know most of them, the four I even know, I can say that they are one of the best experts in Bulgaria. The problem is another.. perhaps someday you will need a competition for them too, the point is that it is not legally endured now to want us competition, although it was a year ago. They will probably need a competition under new rules more transparent, for which colleagues from ARC and from IHN proposed, for the following simple reason. Whenever any employee, management director or manager of an enterprise is selected in an opaque competition, however good it is, he certainly had some influence, impact and placement depending on this good expert, which would interfere with his independent work in the future. If we want to protect the independent work of these experts, directors and employees, we really must, at some point, apply those transparency rules that you are talking about. For the four directors with contests, it's just not really the time right now. As an abstentionist, I will simply call on you to develop the ideas of ARC and IN with these ideas that Stratieva and I have proposed, for transparency, for deadlines in which to make these competitions, for prior disclosure of the visions, and you will see how with a transparency and publicity of the competitions the state will be better without even changing the laws because the independence of the experts, the management staff is of paramount importance for the quality of government management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u164	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. The line is George Svilenski. Are there any other lines? Yes, then Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dunchev, and now I think that in the event of all competitions, not only in the forest sector, there is sufficient transparency and awareness. I don't know about any competition that was held in the dark. However, I was now surprised, impressed here by the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly to witness in competition committees. This is some new function that the MPs will have to perform. I don't know if they'll be cowardly witnesses.! I mean, what exactly is it gonna take if you're a witness in a contest, what's your commitment? Then write a report, an opinion, vote, don't vote, or go tell the story, or what?! I don't know who has this idea to build it up would be interesting. Mr. Dunchev, as an active defender of the competitions, I am accustomed to giving a personal example. Five months! You yourself have been assigned to this agency without a contest. [[(Replys and shouts from the BSP for Bulgaria ……]] However, you are a good expert, you have been appointed, you have worked, but you yourself have appointed a minimum of five people in five months without a contest. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Why didn't you conduct the competitions so that you could now say: "Here I am, Alexander Dunchev, holding the competitions, and the Change came, came the new management and stopped the competitions, which you are part of, by the way. In five months, five people! Mr. Ananiev, don't tell him. Mr. Dunchev is very well in the subject and he will defend himself, I guess, no help needed. In five months, five people without a contest. I ask you to say, when you were appointed to this position, were you elected to a contest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Dunchev, however, to clarify that the difference, for example, between your post that you held and the current competitions that we want to appoint, is that the legal deadline for their conduct has expired. At the moment, the law is being broken, I repeat, colleagues. Let us make sure that the Law is respected. As of March 10th, the law is broken. In addition, colleague Dunchev, let us clarify with regard to the appointed directors in one way or another. Two of the six were appointed by competitions held prior to the entry into force of the amendments to the Law, and they are concerned with this change, which says that new competitions had to be held by March 10th. And of the other four, for which competitions were held, two were subsequently fired and no contests were appointed. So let's see simple mathematics what shows that the majority of directors should be appointed after a competition. Colleagues, let us not forget there are 12 other members of managing bodies together with the chairmen of the board, who are really important political figures, unfortunately, who should be appointed after a transparent, public competition. The only way this is going to happen is by adopting this draft decision. Colleague Dunchev, I hope that you will change your position from abstention, and in the Commission today you will support our proposal, including the representatives of the same committee in which you participate, to be present. Not to participate, to take decisions has a competition committee to take this decision, simply to attend the MPs who are members of the Agricultural Commission, precisely to ensure the promotion of publicity and transparency by your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u168	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Dunchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u169	Dear colleagues, five months, not even five, but four, I was the Director of the Forest Agency on a proposal from President Radev and Stefan Yanev as prime minister to end within three months because of the elections there were more. Our goal was exactly within three months, as we suggest "no more" than the term before a competition or the appointment of a contest, precisely to do a good job. We've done this job. I put out four contests for five of the directors who had temporary appointments. They were released on legal grounds, not just because we do not like them because they were from GERB, two directors of the Regional Forest Directorate in case of proven violations. So what we offer, and what we believe in, we began to realize it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the fifth month I left to come here to fight for what I saw didn't work in the system, including the political appointments that were being done. While I was trying to do it legitly, in the forest enterprises, it was acting on the edge of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u170	Thank you, Mr. Dunchev. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It never became clear from Mr. Dunchev's line whether he was appointed by a competition or not. We don't get it! He remains obliged by his reply.. I specifically did not understand. But I wanted to expand the scope of the topic that we are discussing today, and these are the forests. This Law on Public Enterprises was adopted with a common consensus in Parliament, with colleagues from GERB. I think the other parties then gave their voice and contribution to discussing this law. Now that the previous governors failed to meet the deadline, I think it was February.. We confused the years with these elections, Mr. Dunchev, as you said, for three and then for six months. However, there was a time limit for not everywhere and in all public undertakings. I remember that the valedictorian was the Transport Ministry then, which succeeded within the time limit.. all the posts that took place at a competition under the Public Finance Act were announced. I remember they set a good example in the face of this ministry. Now we have the Ministry of Environment and Water. There are over 20 directors of RIEW, there are pool directorates. Well, let's get the MPs and take part in the competitions there. There is a Committee on Health, hospitals in Bulgaria, subject to competitions as much as you want. Let's get the Health Committee to give their share in the selection of these individuals, as you suggest here. Colleagues, it's not serious. A Member of the National Assembly cannot play an inspector from the Regional Inspectorate for Environmental Protection or Forest Guard, for example, Mr. Dunchev, as often happens. Let's have the self-esteem of MPs and deal with what we are dealing with in legislation. We can look at all kinds of signals, we can do different meetings in different places, but remember: we have nothing to do with executive power. That is why the Constitution has been written and it has regulated the distribution of the authorities. And we here now don't know, they have some ideas in this respect, they have some thoughts, they have something in mind, they want to make an impression on people with this behavior, but you, Mr. Dunchev, a man from the executive who was in an extremely responsible position, and as head of the Forest Agency, you are currently calling them. It's also about deadlines. You know that under the Public Enterprises Act, those who are executives have management contracts. The management contracts are three months old. After all, as you can see, both in previous governments and in current governments these three years are formal. So again, I urge: let us, fellow Members, do our legislative work. Let's not overstep our authority and go into the jurisdiction of other authorities in the case of the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u172	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Genov, I completely agree with what you're saying. I also want to support him with an example from my practice. I had a manager who used to say, "We'll never put an NP department in our company because hiring some people is a role and function of their direct managers. These are the people who should be responsible for those they have hired. Let us not turn the National Assembly into the National Assembly Department of Public Administration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u174	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Stoyev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I don't know what didn't make sense to you, so you're asking a question? Mr. Dunchev has taken this position without a contest! You don't even know if he has the necessary internship to take up this job, was he an employee somewhere else?! You should know that. After all, he has his organs, and they have to investigate him. Secondly, how did it not become clear to you that he had appointed five people without a contest?! There are supposed to be contests. He himself has five people without a contest! You didn't get that either? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u176	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. If you wish, of course, to say, is it clear yet?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u177	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. It became clear to me what happened in time, what happened next. I hope to make it clear to Mr. Dunchev from my explanations that it is not the work of the MPs to be members of competition committees in the appointment of directors, as said by colleagues, of forestry farms. It is also not the job of the MPs, for example, from the Committee on Health and Professor Baltov to participate in the selection of a hospital manager or executive director. It is also not the job of the Education Committee to participate in the selection of directors of certain educational establishments or in the selection of heads of regional inspections on the ground. I hope that this has become clear to fellow importers so that we will no longer have such debates from this tribune, where we can mix the powers, as I said just now, of the executive and the legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u178	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any other statements on the Project? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. There have been proposals for amendments to the texts and I will propose them for one vote at a time, and then we will move on to voting on the entire draft decision. Corrections are editorial. First, I will put to the vote the proposal in the pre-amble part to be added to the report after the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to the text of art. 168 goes on. They voted 127 MPs: 21, against 87, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall vote on the draft decision. 1 the number..15. to be replaced by.30. That is, the time limit to be not 15, but 30 working days. They voted 130 MPs: 23, against 94, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the proposal to the vote. 1 after a competition for directors to be added to the board members and the text continues to the state enterprises under art. 163.................................................................................. Vote 131 MPs: 23, against 91, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. The final suggestion for change. Mr. Abrovsky, tell me if I wrote this down correctly. 2 before the text is recorded the following: "In order to achieve transparency and publicity, the competitions will be held and the text continues. Yes, it is. Please, voting mode. Vote 131 MPs: 23, against 96, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the draft decision in its entirety as presented by the importer. Vote 128 MPs: 23, against 94, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are also running out of this item on the agenda. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the work of the plenary sitting today until the end of this item. Six on the agenda. The point is important, the topic is important, many people are exercising on this topic. The actual picture is even more important than all the exercises we see. It is about the Temporary Commission about all kinds of flows, all kinds of participations and all kinds of lies that we listen to in the public domain, so it is most important that the actual picture on this subject comes out and I propose that we extend the working time until the end of this point. 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u180	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Karadayi's proposal to extend the working time until the adoption of this proposal. 6 on the agenda The five of the parliamentary groups, etc. 6, which we added on a proposal from the DPS. Vote 175 MPs: 62, against 100, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today the parliamentary tribune was once again used by GERB-SDS for cheap political populism. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This time because of the organization around the relocation of Ukrainian citizens who found refuge in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The truth is one thing and it is that Bulgaria continues to provide the necessary support to those who are fleeing the war. We remind you that we have built a capacity from scratch, we have launched a program to accept the great waves of those fleeing the war in the first months. [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u182	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u183	Everyone who needs protection is accepted and sheltered. We recall that the National Crisis Action Plan prepared during the management of GERB was completely inadequate and inadequate and inadequate. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] However, Bulgaria was one of the first countries to respond promptly and transpose the Temporary Protection Directive within just a few days. A new methodology was needed at border crossings, new software, new accommodation approach, new communication channels. A national hotline was created with a Bulgarian and Ukrainian number, which answers important questions in Ukrainian. Before the war in Ukraine, the locations of the State Agency for Refugees were only five. There were applications for protection and the status was expected between three months and one year. This was bequeathed by the state of Borisov and Geshev. We have made sure that temporary protection status is applied on the ground in over 120 points and that this happens within just a few minutes. We did so that Bulgaria ranks first by percentage of temporary protection claims issued in the European Union. Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski personally thanked Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov for what he did for Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The National Assembly, despite the opposition of GERB-SDZ, voted on legislative changes to help the fugitives from the war to receive health insurance and Ukrainian children to visit the Bulgarian kindergartens and schools, for which the necessary organization was created. The state managed to build a successful and fruitful partnership with the Bulgarian Red Cross, NGOs and volunteers in order to create an organization to address the needs of over 200,000 people who passed through the country and about 100 thousand who remained on our territory. It is extremely ugly to use the process of moving Ukrainian citizens for political attacks, for tensions especially against the background of what has been done so far. Guys, this is embarrassing! It's embarrassing, colleagues from GERB! The worried opposition, which is not even ready to vote in this House, for the health insurance of those fleeing the war, but is always ready to make suggestions, to make false claims and to create an unjustified sense of chaos. Your insolence and hypocrisy does not surprise us.. You simply demonstrate your nature. Once again, the state provides all the necessary food, free transportation, accommodation, we provide assistance to anyone who needs it. Chaos, coworkers, there's not gonna be any! This is not the result of your legacy, but of the hard work of the current government. I would like to thank you on behalf of the European Commission for continuing the change to all citizens and organisations that have helped and continue to help in this process. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. We move to point three of the National Assembly's Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF PRINCIPAL SECURITIES. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation has come in. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First procedure for admission: from the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u186	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, namely to allow those persons in the Chamber to examine the point. They voted 109 MPs: 102, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u187	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 47-202-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2022. At its regular meeting held on 25 May 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. The draft law submitted by the Deputy Minister of Finance Ivaylo Yajdjiev introduces in national legislation measures implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1503 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 October 2020 on European providers of enterprise collective finance services and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/1129 and Directive (EU) 2019/37; the requirements of Directive (EU) 2021/338 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2021 amending Directive 2014/65/EU as regards requirements for the provision of information, product management and position limits and Directives 2013/36/EU and (EU) 2019/78 as regards their application to investment firms in order to assist the recovery from the crisis in relation to COVID-19 There are also amendments to the Financial Instruments Markets Act and the State Debt Act on securing the exchange of information between the Financial Supervision Commission and the Minister of Finance in view of its implementing powers of Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on short sales and certain aspects of credit default swaps in relation to the transactions in government securities concluded on trading venues. The proposed amendments relating to the implementation of measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2020/1503 provide for requirements for the provision of collective financing services with regard to the organisation, licensing and supervision of providers of such services and for the operation of collective financing platforms on transparency and advertising communications in the provision of those services. Two forms of collective investment through the use of a collective finance platform are arranged to facilitate lending and to sell without a firm commitment to transferable securities and qualifying instruments for collective financing purposes. It is proposed that the Financial Supervision Commission be designated as a single competent authority on the licensing and supervision of the providers of collective finance services, except where a credit institution wishes to obtain such authorisation, as banks can only carry out the activities covered by their credit institution licence issued by the Bulgarian National Bank. In this part, the Bill is also agreed with the European Central Bank. The regulation on collective finance service providers introduces a threshold of EUR 5 000 000 of the total funds raised for the collective financing proposals made by one project creator. In this regard, the Bill is proposed to increase the threshold of the left-hand equivalent of EUR 3 000 000 for the exemption from the obligation to publish a prospectus when offering securities publicly to increase to the left-hand equivalent of EUR 8 000 000. In this way, more small and medium-sized enterprises will be allowed to raise capital at lower costs and charges and less administrative burdens while complying with requirements for admission to trading of multilateral trading systems such as growth markets. In carrying out a public offering of securities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a total value calculated for a period of 12 months to the equivalent of 8 000 000 euros in order to protect investors, companies are required to draw up a document according to the rules of the multilateral trading system and subsequently disclose information. They are also subject to Regulation 596/2014 on market abuse. With the increase of the threshold to the left-wing equivalent of 8 000 000 euros will also take into account the observed increased interest and overwrites of emissions in public offers on the growth market. In order to ensure compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2020/1503, effective, proportionate and dissuasive administrative measures and administrative penalties are provided for. A fee shall be provided for the issue of an operating licence as a collective finance service provider, as well as a fee for carrying out general financial supervision of those collective funding service providers. In determining the amount of fees proposed by the Bill, an approach has been used in accordance with the requirements of the Methodology for determining the cost-oriented amount of fees. The introduction of amendments relating to the transposition of Directive (EU) 2021/2261 will facilitate the operation of management companies and will facilitate investors, as the Financial Supervision Commission will not require the preparation of two separate information documents to investors (a key information document and key information document) for the same financial product they offer. In order to support recovery from the crisis in relation to COVID-19, specific measures are also provided for by reducing the administrative burden on investment firms arising from compliance with documentation and disclosure requirements. The main changes are aimed at gradually ending paper correspondence, easing the requirement to disclose costs and charges for services that do not constitute investment advice and portfolio management, dropping certain notifications, and facilitating the issuance of certain securities by repealing product management requirements for corporate bonds with an early redemption clause that protects investors. In addition, measures aimed at the inclusion of synthetic securitisations within the framework of simplified, transparent and standardised securitisations and the removal of regulatory barriers to securitisation of non-performing exposures are introduced in order to further increase the credit capacity of banks. Due to the expiry of the deadline for transposition of Directive (EU) 2021/338 against Bulgaria on 28 November 2021, a infringement procedure has been initiated by the European Commission for the absence of notification of national implementing measures. Bulgaria's position on the infringement procedure approved by the Council on European Affairs is committed to submitting the Draft Law to the Council of Ministers by the end of March 2022. The deadline for implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1503 has also expired on 10 November 2021. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The draft should not be notified within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 establishing a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. In the public discussion of the Draft Law by the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian Stock Exchange supported the Bill, including with regard to lifting the threshold for exemption from the obligation to publish a prospectus when offering securities publicly up to the equivalent of EUR 8 000 000. During the discussion the MPs Alexander Ivanov and Martin Dimitrov asked whether by raising the threshold for the exemption from the obligation to publish a prospectus when offering public securities, the level of protection of investors is not reduced and Professor Rumen Gechev added that it is necessary to accompany this with the forecast data in digital terms for the expected investments, including the risky ones. He pointed out that such a legislative solution in a country with a poorly developed capital market should ensure the protection of investors, investment of raised capital in the Bulgarian economy, as well as effective control of investment activity. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 47-202-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u188	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Honest Mitev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This bill is part of the reform package to improve the regulatory framework so as to ensure sustainable economic growth in the long term. In the last few years, the dynamics of the capital market in Bulgaria have increased significantly. In order to ensure long-term development of this market, it is necessary to create the relevant regulatory and business environment. First of all, this bill facilitates ways of raising capital, which is also the most serious challenge facing small and medium-sized enterprises. When this capital has already been collected, it must be guaranteed its effective spending for market development and not for unnecessary administrative costs. This is also achieved by liberalising measures and reducing administrative burdens, as well as by the big step towards lifting the threshold of mandatory publication of prospectuses in the sale of valuable books. Here, disputes at expert level concerned investor protection. But when we talk about such a risky and specific business environment, it suggests that the participants in it are economists, well aware of this specificity and the work of the state is not to protect them, but to stimulate their participation in the market and their effective investments. These are not vulnerable groups to be supported but investors with expansion potential to be supported by the State. This is what is achieved with this bill as part of the long-term strategy for increasing the activity of Bulgarian enterprises on capital markets and realizing economic growth. And in conclusion, in my opinion, the four most important things about this law are raising the threshold in the event of an obligation to publish a prospectus in the public offering of books of 3 million. EUR 8 million EUR, reducing the administrative burden, easier publishing of valuable books and, of course, transposition of a directive on the started production of the EC. That is why we will support this bill. And now I want to take the time to pay attention to an incident that happened a little earlier. Today is Child's Day, and I think it wasn't the best time to play this scene in the National Assembly, which we all witnessed. Of course, first of all, I would like to offer an apology to the children, to the viewers who witnessed these ugly events, in which I also took part, and, of course, to apologize if in any way my behaviour has contributed this aggression to spread in this way. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u190	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to Iskren Mitev? There are no lines. Any other comments on the bill, is it about what happened? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2022, the first vote on the Bill. They voted 130 MPs: 108, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to propose that you put the vote to a reduced deadline for proposals between the two readings every three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u192	Okay. The proposal is to shorten the period between the two readings to three days. That means it'll expire on Monday. A reverse opinion? I won't. Voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: 105, against 46, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We've run out of that part of the program. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE Government'S MAMORANDUM FOR 1 MILLION. DOLLAR WITH GEMCORP AND IP3 CORPORATION. The opinion from an importer. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On 28 March, our parliamentary group submitted this draft decision. Today, let me remind you that we are June 1st and some of the parliamentary groups are worthy of quotes, and this holiday was celebrated. Our proposal relates to the government's signed memorandum, letter of intent or memorable note, as some of the government have tried to announce to us. We are of the opinion that Parliament, the public should have full information on 23 March this year what exactly was signed by Energy Minister Alexander Nikolov in the Granite Hall of the Council of Ministers in the presence of the Prime Minister, with whom exactly did he sign it and what are the parameters of the memorandum in question, which became clear that it was a memorandum? Further questions were asked in the course of these few months from the moment from which this draft decision stood in someone's locker and did not reach the plenary room to be discussed. Today, in the last few minutes of the plenary day, there are likely to be violent debates to begin if such a project for a solution makes sense. We in our parliamentary group say it makes sense. There should be sufficient information about what the countries are, what the subject and object are, the parameters of this memorandum respectively, and what Bulgaria will be obliged to do in the future under this memorandum, which unexpectedly turned out to be semi-secret to us. Even the ruling majority, which boasted of it, subsequently denied it and called it a memorable note and letter of intent. In any case, orders with public funds or funds possibly from the European Union as investments in the Bulgarian economy are right and necessary to be sufficiently clear and transparent for the Bulgarian society. That is why we have proposed the establishment of a Temporary Commission to establish them in an indisputable way. Therefore, I propose to you the draft decision, namely: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's 1 billion memo. dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It sets up a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's 1 billion-billion-year memorandum signed by the government. The dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: President:............................................................................................................. Members:........................... 4. The temporary committee shall establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the signing of the 1 billion memorandum. US dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. 5. Consider and analyse documents relating to the establishment of the content, the parties, the subject matter and appropriateness of the clauses in the signed memorandum. 6. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening a discussion on the draft decision. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. I'll make two editorial proposals. The first is in the title of the word "anquetary" to be taken, the creation of a temporary committee of inquiry and the creation of a committee of inquiry, so the "anquetary" is deleted. And in t. 7: The Commission shall be elected for a period of one month and not the month. So very small editorial suggestions from me. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I put to the vote the two editorial proposals that I have made. We vote them in full. Vote 168 MPs: 146, against 12, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. And now we are going to vote on the main text. I'm just going to read it from... to: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's 1 billion memo. dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It sets up a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the government's 1 billion-billion-year memorandum signed by the government. US dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. 2. The temporary committee consists of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: President:............................................................................................................. Members:........................... 4. The temporary committee shall establish all the facts and circumstances relating to the signing of the 1 billion memorandum. US dollar with Gemcorp and IP3 Corporation. 5. Consider and analyse documents relating to the establishment of the content, the parties, the subject matter and appropriateness of the clauses in the signed memorandum. 6. The interim committee shall draw up a report on the results of its work and the facts and circumstances established. 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of one month. Voting mode. Vote 176 MPs: 160 against 5, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Now we move on to nominations. From the parliamentary group to continue the Change? Here you go, Mr. Kullensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the parliamentary group we continue the Change.We nominate Venko Sabrutev and Vladimir Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of GERB, we nominate Mrs. Desislava Trifonova and Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. Mrs. Desislava Trifonova, we nominate as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. On behalf of the DPS? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose the MPs Petar Chobanov and Alexander Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u200	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we propose Mr. Emil Georgiev and member Dragomir Stoynev as Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u202	Okay, Emil Georgiev for Chairman and Dragomir Stoynev. Thank you. Mr. Balabanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we offer as members Mr. Ivo Atanasov and Mrs. Zlatomira Mostrova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u204	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Bellobradova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev and Mr. Georgi Ganev are members on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u206	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u207	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Revival, we propose Ivo Ruschev and Stoyan Taslakov as members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u208	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, I first put to the vote the fourteen proposals for Members and then we will move on to the election of the President. We are voting on the Anblok proposals for Commissioners. Vote 174 MPs: for 174, against and abstention there is no. We are going to vote on the proposals for the President of the Commission. First of all, I will put to the vote the proposal that Desislava Trifonova be President of the Commission. We are voting for the nomination of Desislava Trifonova as President of the Commission. Vote 172 MPs: 73, against 31, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Vote the next nomination for Commission President Emil Georgiev. Vote 119 MPs: 103, against 10, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We've run out of that point in the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u209	I would suggest that we extend the time until the entry into force of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u210	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In view of the possibility of the next point and since enough time has passed since we entered this law, and if this time had been used rationally, we might have had better solutions by now, it suggests extending the time until the next point is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-01.u212	The previous procedural proposal that we voted on was for this and for the next point. That's right, and now it's just about the Bill. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Peter Chobanov's proposal is to consider this item on the agenda, in a nutshell. His proposal is this item on the agenda, which is for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, to examine it and then conclude the meeting. This is to extend it to the completion of the point. Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 169 MPs: 53, against 88, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I'm adjourned for running out of time in today's session. The next regular meeting will take place tomorrow at 9.00 on the already adopted agenda. [[PHONE RINGING]]
