ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! Please take your seats. Please, registration mode. Abort registration. There are 156 MPs registered. We have a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] With regard to the weekly programme. A project has been prepared and the project begins with the proposals under art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. First in a row is the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT, and their proposal does not meet the requirements of art. 47, para. 8 and cannot be included in the weekly programme. Then we have a proposal from the Parliamentary Group. 1. Reports on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 and 2021. Importer: Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. A proposal from GERB-SDS parliamentary group, which will be t. 2 for Wednesday: 2. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Exporters: Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms has not been made. Proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria 3. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Exporters: Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. A proposal from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people": 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Aid Act with importers Victoria Vasileva and a group of MPs. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, which will be t. 5 in the weekly programme and specifically for Wednesday: 5. Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission to check the circumstances related to an increase in the price of crude oil purchased by "Lukoil Neftohim Burgas" AD, the management and activity of "Lukoil Neftohim Burgas" AD and the actions taken by the state. Importers are Ivaylo Mirchev and a group of MPs. After the points of art. 47, para. 8 of the President of the National Assembly are the following proposals: 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition, enforcement and enforcement of freezing of property. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the provision of support for Greek military formations in connection with the implementation of a maritime patrol aviation mission. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Islamic Republic of Iran and the "AstraZeneka" and a Bilateral Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines against COVID-19 produced by "AstraZeneka" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Youth Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the election of the President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly and the election of the President of the National Assembly. Importer: Desislava Atanasova. 13. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Importer: Commission on Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption. 14. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers: Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, this is point. 1 fixed for Friday. 15. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote on the Programme for this week, colleagues. Vote 217 MPs: 157 against 15, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. Mr. Peter Petrov for procedure. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. Then we will move on to the proposals under art. 47, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft of the program that you read just now, unfortunately, is not the project that was given to us specifically yesterday at seven o'clock and the morning of the Conference of Presidents, which, strangely, was the shortest Presidency Council I have attended. In the project that was presented to us there, it was described that we do not have a proposal under point. 7. I would like to show it to the House that we actually had a proposal on this Friday. 7. Unfortunately, it was not discussed at the Presidential Council whether it was admissible or not. I believe that we are currently exiting some procedures that have already been established by the forty-seventh National Assembly, and strangely why, at the end of this National Assembly, at the end of his life. I believe that such changes, amendments to the draft programme after the Conference of Presidents, when one is given to us and another is read in the Chamber, are unacceptable in my view and are not in the spirit of this parliamentaryism, which we have been able to establish in six months. I will, of course, propose to the Members of the National Assembly that we vote on, Mr President, this proposal which we have tabled for the National Assembly's draft decision. However, I believe that before this, a Presidency Council should be convened to discuss whether it is admissible or not, so that we avoid what we are currently doing in this House. And I'm going to ask you, Mr. Chairman, to give a break, to convene a chairmanship council, to discuss this. 1 in the form in which we were to be served at the Conference of Presidents, the draft programme, and after a decision has been taken by the Chairman's Council, so that we may then avoid procedures and votes in the Chamber. So these are my two demands, Mr. Chairman. I hope you respect them and we can fix one thing that happened. Whether it's a mistake or not, I don't comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u3	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A technical error has indeed been made that has been corrected. However, this does not change the fact that your proposal does not meet the requirements for inclusion in the weekly programme in this order. With regard to your request to be put to the vote in the Chamber, it is also not admissible at identical time limits. Thirdly, the Conference of Presidents shall not have such powers as are laid down in the Rules of Procedure to decide whether or not it is admissible. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. You have the floor again for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u4	Dear Mr President, without discussing whether it is a technical error or not, the result is that these different agenda projects as a result have led to the fact that no discussion has been made at the Chairman's Council. 1 and the proposal made regularly, which has been submitted, I am again showing it to my colleagues, with entry No 47-254-02-83 from 1 July. And this point, this proposal for a draft decision should have been discussed at the Presidential Council precisely in order to avoid what is currently happening from the plenary tribune. And that is why I demand that the Presidential Council be called and that this thing be discussed there, not here wasting plenary time on something that we, of course, have the right to want to discuss on the Presidential Council, as has always happened so far, and not to justify that it was a technical mistake that has been corrected. Such technical errors with different agenda projects should not be allowed, Mr President, to be distributed among the parliamentary groups. And I'm asking you to fix this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u5	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. As I said, the Conference of Presidents has an advisory function. It does not have the authority to derogate from the Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, your proposal is not admissible. We continue, colleagues, with the proposals under art. 47, para. 3. There was a proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Drenchev for inclusion in the weekly program, i.e. in the order of para. 3 of the Draft Decision repealing a previous decision of the National Assembly concerning the enlargement of the European Union submitted by No 47-254-02-83 of 1 July 2022. The draft decision was allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy on 1 July 2022 and the time limits under art. 84, para. 4 of the Rules. Accordingly, this proposal is inadmissible and cannot be put to the vote for reasons which I have already put forward in relation to the other case. The next proposal is from the National Representative Plamen Abrovski and a group of MPs, which proposes to be included as point two for Thursday in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is such a people to make only one clarification, as you have another proposal, which belongs to Mr. Karimanski, for inclusion in the weekly program of the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act. Both requests of both Mr. Abrovski and Mr. Karimansky are for point two of the weekly program, they were received at the same time. [[Relations of MP Iva Miteva.]] Come from the stands, please, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The two proposals were made as point one for Thursday?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u7	It's like point two for Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u8	Then I propose that the ID of the Personal Aid Act be the first item for Thursday, and the other law for substances and precursors be the second for Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Colleagues, I put to the vote the proposed proposal made by the National Representative Plamen Abrovski and a group of MPs for inclusion in the weekly programme of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, to be the second item, fixed for Thursday. Please, voting mode. They voted 224 MPs: for 104, against 24, abstention 96. That's why the offer isn't accepted. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, re-vote. Vote 224 MPs: for 103, against 25, abstention 96. That's why the offer isn't accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lyubomir Karimanski for inclusion in the weekly programme of the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Personal Aid Act, which will be the first item for Thursday. Please, voting mode. Vote 219 MPs: 89 against 17, abstention 113. That's why the offer isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u10	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u11	Here you are, Mr. Karimanski. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we reschedule and I find it very strange that BSP colleagues are not concerned about this particular law! You should be ashamed of that! Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u13	Mr. Karimansky, everyone has the right to an opinion. I'm putting the proposal in motion. Please, re-election mode. Vote 220 MPs: 89 against 7, abstention 124. That's why the offer isn't accepted. Professor Mikhailov, are you here for a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u15	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members! I beg you very much, Mr. Chairman, in the spirit of parliamentaryism, not to allow colleagues to act as Aunt Polly in Tom Sawyer here and to burn incense to their colleagues in a parliamentary hall. [[(Laughter at the BSP for Bulgaria]] It's so ugly! It's very... so following their behavioral reactions in the last three months is so unbeautiful to come out here and scream out of the stands:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u17	Professor, let's not get into this kind of controversy.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u18	...to make comments about this through you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u19	And to you. [[IHN lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u20	Procedure! It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u21	Hold on, hold on, guys! [[IHN lines]] Yes, for a personal explanation, Mr. Karimansky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihailov, you should probably be embarrassed to really make a note to me right now. I have always been compromised enough with everything that you have offered all the MPs, I have been willing to make sure that both the budget and the other bills are sufficient in the spirit of compromise and understanding. But what you are currently doing is really unworthy of such a party as yours. I'm not yelling at you, I'm telling you absolutely friendly, because this law could help many families who can't provide for their children on Saturdays and Sundays the way they can be assisted. Because they need such assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u23	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. [[Heckling]] Professor, I hope you're not getting into any sharp attacks so we don't get into...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u24	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u25	...as a cycle from which there is no exit soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u26	...directly in contact, as athletes say, with Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Karimansky, we have examined your bill very carefully. He does not meet any serious requirements and we have consulted with our social experts, but there is no point here in the Chamber. Otherwise, how tolerant you have been, to tell you frankly as a man with five years of practice here: bragging and congratulating on Friday for breaking 900 million. lv. budget was just a simple one! ..the height of ice cream, as the common people say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u27	Thank you, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u28	Please, Mr. Karimansky!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u29	Let's not go into such a exchange of lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u30	So ugly, there's nothing to talk about! [[Relations of MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u31	Okay, Mr. Karimanski, last time. Colleagues, let's actually move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u32	Dear colleagues, I will now give another BSP member the opportunity to give a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u33	Mr. Karimansky, may I take your word for it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u34	Excuse me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u35	May I take your word before you do?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u36	No, no, you won't. Personal explanation of what Mr. Mihailov said. In a show, Mr. Svilensky himself boasted about the budget, Mr. Svilensky himself said how well we did the budget and everything we did on the budget. So, Mr. Mihailov, what you don't understand, you'd better not get involved. Because you don't know anything about budgeting. Thank you. [[(Shouting from ISN Bravo!) Bravo! (Applause from IHN, GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u37	Okay, guys. We're lucky Mr. Svilensky didn't hear what was said from the stands. [[Loud noise and laughter.]] I guess he could hear after all. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilenski heard what they were saying. Yes, Mr. Karimanski, it is true that 230 MPs accepted this budget, but that you wanted to sabotage it and break it, that is a fact and all Bulgarian citizens saw it. But for the first time, for the first time! The government has received support from 230 MPs! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Whatever you're talking about. [[Replys from ICN and GERB-SDS.]] It's true, Mr. Karimansky! Because here are MPs who have managed for 10 years, and we have imported alternative budgets for 10 years and no proposal has been accepted. [[Comments from GERB-SDS and ISN.]] And now all your proposals have been accepted and the government will implement them. About the Personal Aid Act, it's very easy, but it's very ugly. It's very ugly. Mr. Karimansky, to play with this topic. [[Heckling]] No, you're playing! You are the chairman of the Budget Committee, and if you wanted all this to happen, you should have written it in the budget, because everything you talk about costs money and you know it very well. And it's very easy to stand out of this tribune and explain how concerned you are about these people. They won't believe you because they've been lied to for 10 years and now they're still being lied to. It's our responsibility we know. I will not allow you to give assessments to the parliamentary group of BSP....................what was concerned or cared about. So we can bring you 68 of these laws in order to show your populism. The reality is that you should, as chairman of the Budget Committee, secure them financially, not just talk about Saturday and Sunday what was going to happen. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change" and "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u39	Mr. Yordanov was before everyone else. Then Mrs. Atanasova and Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Tsonev, as a gentleman, will hand over to Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u40	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I don't understand how you're leading this meeting right now, allowing a man like Svilensky to say something outside of everything else? First of all, it was BSP's fault that there would be no budget. They blabbered both them and PP a bunch of crap before the budget that there wouldn't be pensions because of that people because we got out of the fucking government. [[Laughter and applause from IHN and GERB-SDS.]] Now it's their fault we've adopted a budget. It's called schizophrenia!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u41	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u42	So hold off the MPs of BSP, who, on top of that, were worried about mothers with children with disabilities in parliament when GERB managed...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u43	They were rolling.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u44	They rolled around, explained that this law is great and that it should be there, and when we offer it now, with all our insolence, working veils at the PP, jaffling in the opposite direction! Well, it's ugly! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u45	Colleagues, it does not go to chairmen of parliamentary groups to use such language. Indeed! Mr. Yordanov, let's not give qualifications to the people who are in this room but try to speak with arguments. For the procedure Mrs. Atanasova, then Mr. Tsonev, as I said. Then you, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Mr. Chairman, once again you have demonstrated that you cannot control the plenary room. We're still on a procedural vote on the agenda. All other topics about how BSP defends the Personal Aid Act or that a budget of 230 votes has been adopted, not thanks to your governance, but thanks to the opposition, honourable, because it has made good proposals that have gathered such support, removes you from the agenda for another day. Mr. Chairman, we have a draft program, we have tabled proposals from the parliamentary groups. I appeal to return to this draft programme and the proposals of the parliamentary groups. In this project we do not see those 22 laws, honourable colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" for which you have been saying for weeks that they are vital so that the funds of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan can be absorbed. That's the question: where are your laws? Is the Ombudsman's report on the agenda and not the Recovery Plan the most important? So, let's stop it! This is another nonsense because the demonstration of your total lack of carelessness is clear to all Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u47	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u48	Zero legislative decisions on the Recovery Plan. Do you know why? Because you've proven a long time ago that you can't. Let others who have experience, as they have demonstrated to you, as they have demonstrated to you that the budget is possible with good proposals, to do so for the Recovery Plan. Thank you. [[Applause GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u49	I'll give you a chance too, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The procedure is in the way it leads to you. Indeed, you are missing the House because to start the parliamentary week with 4 personal explanations... of a personal explanation of the personal explanation of the previous personal explanation, not only is it not in the Rules, but this is what led to it. It will be speeches on the topic of "Budget" which are absolutely incorrect or by colleagues who do not have the professional sphere. And for the budget it was clear that this was a new budget because the philosophy of the budget that we adopted with 230 MPs from 230 present was completely changed. You can see that very clearly. I am making this clarification because they are telling the truth about the budget. The budget that we have adopted with full consensus is a new budget because its philosophy is absolutely different from that of the budget tabled. The imported budget did not take into account inflation, did not take into account inflation revenues, did not take into account the wrong policy of blowing inflation internally with economic and fiscal policy. And when we corrected it and these things came in, it practically changed his philosophy and hence everything else to cover inflation damage to business and people. And there's nothing to think about here how the government's budget was voted by 230. No, the opposition budget, like last September, was voted with full consensus. Therefore, the government should be praised because they understood, including the finance minister, who told us in a straight text. They figured it was the right approach. There's nothing here! Let's give the whole room an achievement not to do equilibrists here, because it's not okay. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Please pay attention to MPs like Mr. Svilensky, who clearly do not respect the regulations that we have all adopted, accusing Mr. Karimanski, but why not put the money for the mothers of disabled children in the budget. Mr. Chairman, you know the laws first have to be dealt with, this room has to accept them and then put money into the budget? But as the stands are currently being used for political propaganda and people are having problems with their guilty conscience at this time, my request is that you pay attention to them because at the moment those who are yelling the most about thinking about people have mocked them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u53	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Gurov. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "What declaration? We did not vote on the agenda.]] If you can for a procedure in the manner of conduct, obviously you can also for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u54	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u55	And you after the declaration, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Gurov, you have the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Dear colleagues, there is a word from which GERB runs like the devil from incense, and it is a responsibility. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] When the roads are in severe condition after 12 years of government, GERB and their chief run to count holes instead of humble themselves and apologize. When energy is in chaos and poor repairs take out power, they say: here the new governors are guilty, as if the energy that is being destroyed for 12 years can be rebuilt in six months. The state treasury was drained for years because the money was sinking into advances for non-existent highways, in illegal construction, in bags, in drawers, luxury properties, in disadvantaged contracts, in sectors without reforms, while the debt of hospitals, municipalities, state enterprises increased. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When we achieved record collection for months, when we started stopping the mafia faucets, GERB got scared and imported their absurd vote of mistrust. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "What have you achieved?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] A vote of mistrust for the financial policy that the German finance minister describes in the following way, I quote: "Your solid finances are an inspiration to all of us. " [[Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Claps by.. We continue the change.]] This week came out and the data that put the final sentence of this baseless vote, namely the surplus in the treasury is more than 1 billion. lv. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] When it became clear that the funds under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan decreased by about 1 billion. BGN, GERB again jumped with another lie. This time Boyko Borisov announced that the plan was a failure and made accusations of irresponsibility. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, the gentleman has never been responsible for his failures. He just transfers them to someone else and likes to come out of the water dry. At the expense of whom is it at the expense of the Bulgarian people?! But even the people got tired of paying Borisov's bills, so he took him out of power twice. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] To clarify for Bulgarian citizens the financial correction is under the legal framework of the Mechanism for Reconstruction and Sustainability, voted in February 2021 in the European Union, supported and voted by the government of Mr. Borisov. This is Boyko Borisov the man with the drawer. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Excuse me, gentlemen and ladies of GERB, your people have taken you out of power to have more economic growth. As for the adjustment in our Plan under the Mechanism, it means one "Bulgaria's economic performance is better than the average for the countries in the European Union. Our economic recovery is faster when you are in opposition! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] It is high time you took responsibility for at least one part of the damage you have done to Bulgaria. Let the citizen Borisov appear in the National Assembly to explain his actions, along with his former Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev, or to apologize for the widespread lies. However, interesting questions remain. Will GERB continue to endanger the entire resource under the Plan, as they did with blocking the work of the National Assembly with their new majority last week? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Will they support the reforms we have committed to implement in order to implement the Recovery and Sustainability Plan... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u57	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u58	... Or is it another goal for Bulgaria to return to the swamp of corruption, set schemes and private customs?! The truth will become clear when the votes are in place here, in this House, when we have to vote on the amendments to the Public Procurement Act, in the Anti-Corruption Act, changes in the rules for reporting irregularities and all the other legislative initiatives that await us. There's not much time, and there's a lot of tasks. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] By their deeds you will recognize them and by their voices in the hall! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. You are welcome for a personal explanation, Mr. Donchev, and then for procedures Mr. Chenchev and Popov. There's a personal explanation first. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] They mentioned my name in a reproaching context. Citizen Donchev is here and is able to answer any relevant question, as well as participate in any conversation that makes sense. From the words spoken, there is not a single sentence that constitutes a meaningful question. Do you, however, honourable Members, know what the meaningful questions are? I call on you to read the draft new general regulation as well as the applicable regulation to the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan and to pay attention to the deadlines. Friendly Council? Pay attention to the deadlines! 2023 is the absolute deadline for the negotiation of funds under the Contracting Plan and it expires in a year and six months. At this time Bulgaria must negotiate the entire resource under the Plan and at the same time implement the investment programme from the budget and at the same time conclude contracts under the new operational programmes, because, if you do not know, there is also the so-called rule... plus three for automatic release of funds, which if not agreed within a certain time limit, are lost. So far Bulgaria has negotiated according to the National Plan and the Operational Programs - zero, zero, zero! [[Applause from GREB-SDS]] And she paid zero, she paid zero. The important question is not whether the European Commission has written off 1 billion, but the important question is how many billion Bulgaria will lose next year. And here, trust my professional intuition only according to the National Plan, I bet 3 billion, from there only three. These are the essential questions. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Colleagues from BSP. Mr. Popov, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct that was requested a long time ago. I ask that the Rules be observed first. A personal explanation of the personal explanation, a personal explanation of the declaration, the Members for the organization and activities of the National Assembly do not allow such procedures, and you may be out of correctness and experience to master the Chamber you have given these procedures but in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. President, when a Member of the National Assembly speaks with the language of hatred against another Member of Parliament or against an entire parliamentary group here, at the very least to be given a remark and to have a more severe penalty imposed on him. There is such a people who oppose the language of hatred in our neighbour Northern Macedonia, but they do the same here from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u63	What about the P.I.?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u64	With regard to GERB, Mr. President, who here from this tribune tell us about the Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability, we have seen what they did under this plan. Nothing! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And that is why the plan took so long, so Bulgaria is now suffering damage because of you, honourable colleagues from GERB. Zero, two zeros, that's all you've done! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, you are good at the destabilization plan of Bulgaria and proved it for years. In this you are good, but in terms of the sustainability and development plan, this is your result there. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] So, Mr. President, as to what the BSP Parliamentary Group is doing and here to give us estimates from colleagues from the ICN, please cross such practices because it does not go to the highest authority in the State......... with this statement, with these expressive means, to refer to a parliamentary group or a separate national representative. And lastly, dear Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u65	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u66	When such personal attacks or attacks are made against a particular parliamentary group, this leads to the conclusion of a lack of adequate policies and arguments that could be defended, and therefore to personal attacks, and the other is history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u67	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The procedures are for this to resolve procedural issues, not to annoy the House. Mr. Chairman, the procedure here is for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u69	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u70	You seem to tolerate personal qualifications. I don't tolerate them, and the House shouldn't tolerate them on either side. Now everyone here in this room is getting a little too much Mr. Yordanov. Firstly, he is the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Secondly, Mr. Yordanov, as you look at me, you know that you and I can always talk at any time and on all matters. Mr. Chairman, since there are such qualifications and now a Member of the National Assembly, it is truly outrageous to say about another, about an entire parliamentary group who it is. I think their parliamentary group in their words is managed by the sofa and the dark room. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman? That's right! So, since Mr. Yordanov as chairman of their parliamentary group is the conductor of their leader's decision, what is he like as a conductor?! Right hand, left hand or exactly what body organ you are, Mr. Yordanov, to your leader? If we go this way, what will happen, Mr. Chairman? How do you tolerate these insults here and this language? Chairman of the Committee on Culture for how long? Three parliaments already. And I'm really saying this because it's time to say, Mr. Yordanov. No matter how much you come out and now you're thinking of me, you're a writer, I don't know what you are, whatever you do, it's a parliament here and I think you've outraged the entire Bulgarian people with your language and not mine! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev, we understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u72	Last sentence. Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, who is the chairman of what committee and which committee is the chairman of the budget, there are some dithermbi here which group has not supported which law, these are now political decisions. When one Member of the National Assembly, Mr President, says from this tribune, one group did so, the other group did so, it is your role to master the House and tell this Member of the National Assembly that this opinion is his opinion, not to put it on another group or to qualify another group. Because, Mr. Chairman, this MP who gave these qualifications here, this same MP, can you tell the House for sure that his opinion is relevant?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u73	Mr. Chenchev, we understand the procedure, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u74	I don't think you understand it because you're not stopping them. Stop them!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u75	I should have stopped you too, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Yordanov, come in. I hope we can continue with what lies ahead. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u76	Thanks for the personal explanation. Mr. Chenchev, you may not like my language, but at least I speak the truth. It may be a little more direct, but I am speaking the truth because hypocrisy in this Parliament has been raised to a unique level. There are well-suited people coming out of this platform and lying insolently, looking everyone in the eye, lying to the Bulgarian citizens. Example: The BSP with the Personal Aid Act is spoken, another is done. Disgusting lie, disgusting! Your leader is breaking up and your other leader, because there are two of you, calling the people from our parliamentary group, calling their relatives, offering them posts, and you think that's normal?! It's a higher form of grossness and hypocrisy! And then who's the organ of who. Okay, Svilenski, your group chairman, which organ from Cornelia Ninova's body is it? [[(Laughter) There is such a people.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u77	You want to know what organ I am?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u78	Colleagues... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, wait a minute! [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, guys! [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take your seats! I ask you to continue the work of the National Assembly! [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, take 20 minutes to calm down the passions. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u79	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. Before the break, the emotions took a moment and in the context of Mr. Toshko Yordanov's speech I impose on him on the basis of art. 156 of the Punishment of the Rules of Procedure, since his speech did not simply contain an insult to colleagues, but also led to disorder in the Chamber, so, Mr. Yordanov, I sentence you a reprimand. Colleagues, let's get back to the National Assembly Program. For the procedure Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Actually, I asked for it a little earlier, but due to the dynamic circumstances, I couldn't get there, Mr. Chairman. What you gave as a personal explanation to Mr. Donchev was actually an opinion on our declaration. Personally, I don't think it was right. We didn't understand why he was offended. His personal explanation also confused us. He should be the ruler of operational programmes and funds and know that the so-called contraction has nothing to do with the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the deadlines that are there do not run the same way, so I could not understand all this personal explanation which was related to the declaration as such. So it is nice for Mr. Donchev to see and check that in fact the Recovery and Sustainability Plan is not an operational program that you may be planning to master, but read more. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Popov, you have the floor for the procedure. Colleagues, I hope we can get back to the National Assembly's agenda after this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In connection with what you have declared as punishment for Mr. Toshko Yordanov. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is insisting on imposing a more severe punishment given that Mr. Yordanov repeatedly here from this tribune, not once or twice after his oral remarks by your side, continued to insult and give obscene expressions and a language of hatred to individual MPs and to the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and therefore we insist on imposing a stronger punishment to Mr. Toshko Yordanov, namely removal from today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Kambarev, you have the floor for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief and be like a bridge to the next topic. A moment ago Mrs. Atanasova said that we should thank GERB for many things. I ask that you also remind them from time to time that we should thank them for not showing up to work in the committees, thank them for showing up selectively to work in plenary. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Chairman, I believe that when the Bulgarian citizen does not go to work, he will probably be fired, but obviously this does not apply here and I think that this is a great disrespect for the Bulgarian citizen, being not in committees, being not in plenary. Also, Mr. Chairman, this is in connection with the first point. Mrs. Atanasova said the first point was insignificant. In fact, I believe that this is a very significant point, because if we have bothered to read the Report, there are 64 thousand co-operations of the Ombudsman to citizens, of which there are over 15 thousand complaints, so let us say that this point is insignificant, it is also disrespectful to the Bulgarian citizen and to the problems of the people they have and have stated. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kambarev. Prof. Chakarov, because there was another request for a declaration from the National Assembly, I asked them to proceed to them after clearing the agenda. Can I ask you the same thing? Thank you. Colleagues, there are two more proposals received from Mr. Alexander Nenkov and Mr. Georgi Svilenski. Both want to be included by para. 3 of art. 47 the following point, namely the voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, with the importer Georgi Svilenski. In so far as this item was put to the vote on this order last week and it was rejected, it is not permissible to re-expose on the basis of a sentence last of art. 47, para. 3. There's another suggestion. It is from the MP Delyan Dobrev, namely to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister in resignation Mr. Kiril Petkov, as well as of the Minister of Energy in Retirement Mr. Alexander Nikolov regarding the supply and price of natural gas. The request is to be included as a point in the National Assembly Programme. This proposal is admissible, so I'm putting it to the vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 223 MPs: 131 against 90 abstentions 2. The motion is accepted. Revoting, fellow Members! Vote 227 MPs: 132, against 92, abstention 3. That's how the offer is accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, come in for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that the item on the agenda for hearing the Prime Minister resign and the Minister of Energy resign be the first item of tomorrow's plenary day.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u87	Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Atanasova's proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 226 MPs: 128, against 68, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Is there a request for a re-vote? Revoting, fellow Members! Vote 228 MPs: for 128, against 71, abstention 29. That's how the offer is accepted. Colleagues, there are several messages I should introduce you to. On 30 June 2022, the Council of Ministers of the National Assembly received a Framework Position of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union for a common position of the European Union on the negotiations for the accession of the European Union with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and a conclusion of the Council of Northern Macedonia adopted by Decision No 428 of the Council of Ministers of 2022. The material is provided to all Members of the European Union, to the Parliamentary Groups and to the Foreign Policy Committee. A Report on the State of Administration in 2021 adopted by Decision No 430 of the Council of Ministers of 2022 was submitted to the National Assembly for information. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The material is also available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that by his own orders he has authorised the dispatch of an airplane to Hungary and vice versa, the dispatch and use of an airplane to the French Republic and back with the crew of soldiers of the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received on 30 June and 4 July 2022 with input No 47-203-09-69 and No 47 203-09-70, respectively, and were submitted to the Defence Committee. On July 1, 2022, the National Assembly received an Analysis of the Economic and Social Council on the topic: "Investing Bulgaria's accession to the euro area on economic development, inflation and income in the country. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Union Affairs. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets on 31 March 2022 by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and by the Ministry of Innovation and Growth. The reports shall be made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the relevant portfolio committees. The National Assembly has received: Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its function under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 May 2022. "20 June 2022; and Protocol No 22 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 June 2022, at which the report is reviewed and discussed. By resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol are sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are also available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2022 was received in the National Assembly on 30 June 2022. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the Members of the National Assembly Library. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: inflation and consumer price indices for May 2022; economic conjuncture for June 2022; price indices of a producer on the domestic and international market in the industry for May 2022; and key indicators for Bulgaria. Colleagues, we can move on to the first item on the agenda, namely: REPORTS ON THE WORK OF THE OMBUDSMAN OF BULGARIA IN 2020 AND 2021 Before that, however, there was a procedure of rebirth. Mr. Drenchev was in the room the first to ask for the floor? He's gone. Here you are, Associate Professor Chakarov, you have the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We of the DPS parliamentary group make this declaration in order to express our firm position that the way in which the government proceed with the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan is absolutely opaque and completely inconsistent with the European Commission's requirements for publicity and transparency in spending funds on the various financial instruments and mechanisms of the European Union. Last week the Bulgarian society learned, including us, from a spokesperson of the European Commission, that the funding of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan will be reduced by 578 million. EUR or more than 1 billion. 130 million. lv. less. In this way Bulgaria will receive not 6 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question The Commission therefore concludes I mean, it's over a billion. lv. less. We know that this is in line with the methodology of the European Commission for calculating the funds that each Member will receive for recovery from the pollution crisis, according to the data from Eurostat on gross domestic product and on unemployment on 30 June 2022. The reason is that the mechanism was approved on the basis of forecasts for these economic indicators. And what do you get? Germany will receive additional funds and for Bulgaria the poorest country in the European Union and Europe, the funds will be reduced, as I have already pointed out, by 578 million. Euros. Recalculations have been made, naturally, for all Member States of the European Union, but the question is why the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole did not have any information in what direction this recalculation is going for Bulgaria and why we have once again learned such important facts concerning our whole society, from external sources, that is, when it has already been decided and is in the final rights, by the spokesperson of the European Commission. It is also an important issue when the government of Kiril Petkov presented the European Commission's approval plan in April this year, that is, the last of the years we have had enough and plenty of time for all of this to be made sense. Didn't you have any idea of the actual values of these economic indicators, and why did you pawn projects of six billion two hundred and seventy million? Our answer to this question is that there may have been no information about real economic indicators. Because if there wasn't, it would be another proof of the total lack of professional skills of the government to do financial and economic analyses and forecasts. If this information was known to them, then placing projects for six billion and two hundred and seventy million in clarity that they will be reduced has been done for the purpose, I stress, the service of personal economic and corporate interests, which are, by the way, laid down in the national Recovery and Sustainability Plan as a whole, we have repeatedly expressed them for batteries and so on for corporate interests. We don't need to point out one more time. Now, the opportunities for implementing the projects envisaged in the Plan, subject to a reduced total amount, as a public spokesperson explained to the Commission, is for the country to take advantage of the loan of the European recovery mechanism, on which there is a quota of 4.5 billion. Euros. But in order to gain access to these loan funds, the government, whatever it is, will have to work further on the Plan by sending the adjustments for approval to the European Commission by August 2023. That is, the deadline is very short. If not, they will have to provide funds from the state budget or drop projects. Is it not clear that the overall redistribution of the funds under the Plan is possible, according to the reduced grant funding, with the approval of the European Commission, so that projects do not drop out, but to reduce funding for all or just for some, respectively, but which ones? These questions must be answered and answered by the competent party. Also, there is no information.. Was the Minister of Finance involved in the process of recalculating the funds under the Plan, did he defend the national interest and was there any possibility that the funds originally planned for Bulgaria could be maintained? That this is clearly not done by the government and the finance minister last week made a statement Plamen Danailov And in all this ambiguity, how will the Plan be implemented, reduced by more than 1 billion. lv. European funding, and with six billion and two hundred and seven-seven-seater projects, the Ministry of Innovation and Growth boasted that it had announced for public discussion a first procedure for selecting a proposal for the implementation of investments by final beneficiaries "Technical modernisation for small and medium-sized enterprises" worth 260 million. lv. under the Programme for Economic Transformation under the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Once again, work is started blindly, in a piece, without any analysis, estimates and forecasts, without any general concept, as this government has been working for the past seven months. As was done this morning, the state budget was discussed and with the extremely constructive and active position of the opposition, still in this Parliament, came to this format and the budget. So we consider it reasonable and we insist that at last the Prime Minister in resignation Kiril Petkov and the Minister of Finance in resignation Asen Vassilev should come to the Parliament and present information on how the plan will be implemented after the reduction of the funding by the European Union and if the national interest of Bulgaria has been protected when the funds have been made available to everyone in Bulgaria about the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Because we have repeatedly invited and made a proposal for a hearing, as has not been carried out and the Plan has not been presented, although they have made a commitment here. Unfortunately, honourable Members, Bulgaria is losing more than 1 billion. lv. from this recovery and sustainability plan, but Germany, as I have already pointed out, will receive additional funds. Germany will receive additional funds because there are ministers, there is a government that protects their national interests! And who protects our national interests and all of us?! [[Heckling]] Mr. Donchev, who? It is obvious that there is no one to protect them and, unfortunately, there really must be a discussion and a debate, and here it should be seen exactly how the work must continue in order to have funds as they are intended for everyone in Europe and especially for the poorest Member of the European Union. So I suggest that we all be above the emotions of the political party, to have a serious discussion here. In the shortest time, Mr President, the Prime Minister in resignation and the Minister of Finance in resignation, so that there is a discussion and adequate decisions are made, to continue in a normal way, because we have received absolutely nothing so far. Some might say that 22 Member States of the European Union have been reduced, but I would like to emphasise that all 22 other countries have received and received funds. Bulgaria is the only country that has not received up to now one lev. This is very worrying and we are very concerned and we are ready to be constructively active. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov, It's for procedure, Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Very brief procedure in the manner of conduct and it is related to the messages you have made. You have reported that there has been a framework position tabled under an act of the European Union which has been made available to the MPs and to the Foreign Policy Committee so far well. My request is that you update your distribution and also provide it to the Commission on European Union matters. In the end, that is why it was created so as to address these issues, and this will also be in the performance of art. 117 of our Rules that the questions and the framework positions for European Union acts are also to be addressed by that Commission and made available to it. It is simply to allocate the framework position to the Commission on European Union matters to also respond to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u91	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are you here for procedure, Mr. Chorbanov? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please allow them to enter the Chamber with a view to the Report, to make a procedural proposal, Professor Diana Kovacheva, Professor Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Hristina Rangelova, Chief Expert in the Ombudsman's Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u93	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov. Colleagues, I'm putting the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 145 MPs: for 144, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the persons to whom we have just voted. Colleagues, before we proceed to the reports, I will perhaps ask if the guests would like to take an attitude and present the two reports to us in summary? Dear Mrs. Ombudsman, welcome! Would you like the floor to present the two reports to us in summary? Here you are, Professor Kovacheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present to you the problems of Bulgarian citizens as we saw them during the prism of complaints to the Ombudsman for the last two years. It is fair to you, as MPs, to speak really very briefly and synthesize, because within almost all the committees in Parliament I had the opportunity to present the two reports in detail. It is fair to my applicants, however, from this tribune very briefly to remind you of the main questions they have referred to me in the last two years, at least those of them who need legislative intervention. The applicants to the Ombudsman during these two years were little more than 125 thousand people passed through the Ombudsman's institution with complaints, with complaints, seeking advice. Many of them referred to me with signatures, with systemic problems that they have been struggling with for years, and problems that require both willpower and courage. During the prism of complaints to the Ombudsman, I can say that the last two years have not been easy for Bulgarian citizens, including because of a form of pandemic, which really affected all of them, was unexpected and unpredictable. In just the first two months during the Lockdown, complaints to the Ombudsman increased by 30%, but I believe that the people who addressed the Ombudsman are looking for the public defender and because we have made sure that the institution remains accessible, we have not stopped working one day in these two years. We have been contacted by many people, and because I believe that trust in the public defender is growing because with its public position on all the issues with which people refer to me as their violated rights, I believe that I also perform another important function of the Ombudsman and it is to inform citizens of their rights and encourage them to defend and protect them consistently. In 2021, the number of complaints to the Ombudsman increased compared to previous years. We've done checks on 14,700 complaints. The number of recommendations is also very high on individual and common cases.. 2855 are the recommendations I have sent to various institutions. I've sent 9500 opinions. Last year, I approached the Constitutional Court five times, and my appeal was respected in each of these proceedings. I would like to inform you that a change in the trend of complaints occurred in 2021. Before that, in general, I received the most complaints against public authorities as intruders. Last year, however, it turned out that nearly 43% of the complaints that people have addressed to me are against the service providers - these are water companies, electricity supply companies, heating companies, collector companies, fast credit companies and so on. This is due to the fact that people are really struggling to repay their obligations precisely to monopolies, and it is therefore very important that matters such as the issue of the Collectors Act be resolved. Do not give up this law, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, let us enter at second reading as previously being, of course, improved, so that it is clear that the fast credit companies are covered in the protection with collectors, the banks are included in this law, there is at all clear protection with regard to the persons who are subject to attention, so let's say, by the collectors' companies. After this bill for collectors stands yet another very important claim for the eternal debtor, because there are indeed people with extremely many obligations that they objectively and permanently cannot repay, and something must be done about this matter. I will also say that in the Ombudsman's institution, among all the complaints I receive, the share of consumer complaints is the most, and among them the share of complaints related to poor water quality. Discussions are currently under way throughout the country to raise the cost of water, and it is a drastic increase. I would like to say that with huge losses of water in the whole country somewhere they reach 85% total losses, it is not appropriate to increase the price without having a link to improving the quality. It is also high time to define the concept of energy poverty in the Energy Efficiency Act, because indeed the number of people to be supported is much greater than the actual circle at the moment that covers them. Next, over the past year, I would say that the most important thing was the pensioner's signatures because of the low pensions. Efforts have been made to increase, and indeed this is essential, vital to pensioners over 20,000. I've been approached with signatures on this matter. However, I would like to remind you that there is a category of pensioners who, no matter how much pensions increase, are still left with really very low pensions - these are the pensioners who have retired for the longest time, so it is worth considering, although I do realize that this is about a very serious financial resource, to update these pensions of the people who have retired more recently to the present time, and I hope it will also come to this at some point in order to be fairer. Of course, along with older people's questions, children's rights are essential to me. They also went through difficult two years, two years almost continuous online training. Unfortunately, at this point, both you and I as parents, and I as a parent, are aware that we are talking about both educational deficits and digital poverty, and indeed children's problems, including, unfortunately, some of them and psychological problems because of long isolation. Last year, I did a Campaign for Blue Summer. In 12 cities across the country, I offered free psychological support for children who have become more anxious, more sensitive, socially isolated, they have lost their motivation for learning precisely as a result of these two years of online learning. It is important to really have psychologists in each school, it is important to seal the classes of the teacher. And one more thing for the children is important to discuss and adopt the package of laws on child justice so that our justice becomes more sparing to children. Last but not least, I have received many complaints from disabled people. If someone was very badly affected and hit by the pandemic, it was the people with disabilities. I am glad that you accepted a proposal I tabled before the Easter holidays with regard to people with disabilities, for which the telk decisions expired on April 1st - that is nearly 11,000 people, but every person is important, these people remained for a certain period of time without any income and support. It was really important to be supported. In this regard, I would like to appeal to you to support another legislative proposal of mine. A legislative proposal, figuratively speaking, but submitted to the President of Parliament and the Regional Commission, the issue of the wrong wines. As early as February, I made such a legislative proposal, I really expect it to be considered, because, you know, in a situation of manifest factual error when writing the license plate, it is not fair for people to pay fines and compensatory fees. This must be corrected so that there is a legal basis to be dismissed. Finally, one more question, I will mention the issue of domestic violence, a systemic problem, a very serious one. For nearly two years, over 50 women were brutally killed. And when I say women, I'll say that actually a victim of domestic violence can become anyone, no matter how educated you are, how rich you are, how intelligent you are. Anyone who is imprisoned in his home with a bully can become the victim of domestic violence - people with disabilities, adults, parents, children. Children carry the scar of domestic violence for the rest of their lives. And that is why I think that I expect, I hope, that the bill of amendments will be tabled precisely in the Law on Domestic Violence. Support him, because in fact victims of domestic violence rarely dare to talk, sometimes dissuade them after the first time, but let's hear them from the first time and support them. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the two years of coven pandemic have put on a very hard test the rights of people not only in Bulgaria. Here again we are facing an old debate of freedom and rights, on the one hand, or security. We must not go deep into this debate. I stand, of course, always on the side of protecting people's rights, every complaint is important, every problem is significant because for many people who turn to the Ombudsman, this particular complaint is their whole life. The Ombudsman must be the link between institutions and people. Yes, I cannot make the decision, but I can strengthen the voice of the people, summarize their arguments, present them to the institutions, even if I propose possible solutions and be persistent in defending the rights of the Bulgarian citizens. For me, as an Ombudsman, cooperation with you as MPs is of fundamental importance, so I hope that the reports I have brought to your attention, and indeed in meaningful debates we have been able to discuss in the committees, will be useful to you so that you can use them as ideas, as help in your work for the benefit of the people. Thank you for the opportunity to briefly present my work. [[(Applause from.. We continue the Change.....................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u95	Thank you, Professor Kovacheva. Colleagues, there have also been several reports from portfolio committees. Professor Chorbanov, you have the floor to introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens. Just a moment to say what the next reports are so that colleagues can prepare: Commission for the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on Health. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Ombudsman! Depending on the situation of the National Assembly, we will adopt the reports for 2020 and 2021, so I will read the Report for 2020: ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021, At a regular meeting held on 17 February 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Dr. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria," and Mrs. Elena Cherneva - Deputy Ombudsman. Prof. Kovacheva presented the Ombudsman's Activity Report in 2020. She said that in 2020 the institution has worked extremely actively " 60,699 citizens have received assistance from the Ombudsman. The admissions by the Ombudsman, the Deputy Ombudsman and the services of the reception hall are 19,733. The number of citizens whose demands regarding different problems are united in signatures is 23,864. The complaints and alerts received in 2020 are 13 244. The final checks on complaints and alerts are 13 794 of which 13 259 complaints and alerts are given recommendation, opinion, advice or mediation. The Ombudsman noted that in 2020, complaints were received from 10,000 pensioners related to the low amount of pensions. She stressed the need for a political decision to update the pensions received on the basis of the average social security income for the previous year and not according to the insurance income in the retirement year. Prof. Kovacheva noted that at the beginning of the emergency situation announced because of the CIVID-19, the institution has reorganized its activities in order to respond to the need to be closest to the citizens. On the Ombudsman's website, the mobile phones of the experts were announced and the reception rooms were conducted online, Skype, by phone. In just the first two months of the pandemic, complaints to the public defender increased by 30%. Over 2500 recommendations have been made to various institutions and each second one has been implemented. Traditionally, in 2020 the number of complaints and signals from public service users followed by complaints due to violations or affected social rights is the largest. A significant share of complaints related to the right to education, health care, good administration also takes place. The analysis of complaints shows that in 2020 the complaints of the users of water services are again in the first place followed by complaints against the heat service companies, mobile operators, banks and fast credit companies, electricity supply companies and so on. According to the Ombudsman, the question of the quality of the service provided and its cost is also very acute. Most often citizens complain about the state and municipal authorities and their administrations, and complaints against individuals are about 32% of the total number of complaints by citizens. Prof. Kovacheva drew attention to the problems related to online training of children, which led not only to educational deficit, but also to serious psychological problems due to social isolation. In this regard, she pointed out implemented initiatives on the mental health of children and violence in schools and made specific recommendations for dealing with these problems. Prof. Kovacheva introduced the MPs to a number of achievements of the institution in 2020. With the respected constitutional appeal and the unconstitutional provisions of the Road Traffic Act, which decree the withdrawal of the driving licence and its suspension from movement due to unpaid fines, with the adopted legislative proposal on the non-secresibility of the funds under the programme.Save me, for the sake of the pandemic, with the recommendations of the National Health Insurance Fund to inform patients about the cessation of the practice of personal doctors, with the suspension of technical passportization of buildings and others. The Ombudsman pointed out that six requests were made to the Constitutional Court in 2020 and 2021 and the five were respected and the sixth complaint was pending. According to Professor Kovacheva, in the absence of the possibility of an individual constitutional complaint, it is the Ombudsman who transmits the problem to the citizens to the Constitutional Court. The focus is also on the priority topics on which the institution will continue to work. They are related to improving the situation of pensioners, protecting the rights of the military invalids, with support for non-governmental organizations that provide social services to people with disabilities, with the update of tax reliefs for people with disabilities, with regulation of the activities of collectors companies, with prevention and protection from domestic violence, child justice, etc. A serious place in the report is devoted to the Ombudsman's activities as a National Preventive Mechanism (NMNM). In 2020, a total of 49 planned, out-of-plan and emergency inspections were carried out at various sites: prisons and dormitories to them, arrests, district and border police stations, psychiatric hospitals and others. The Ombudsman's annual report for 2020 also includes a special part related to monitoring the implementation of international human rights acts and information on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) judgment decisions, as well as on those in an enhanced monitoring procedure by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Andrey Chorbanov, Jayhan Ibryamov and Petar Kyosev. They expressed their views on the report and asked questions. The MPs united around the idea that the report is comprehensive, draws attention to very serious problems and the debate on them should not be political because they concern the whole society. The questions were related to the topic of domestic violence.. whether there are statistics on increasing the growth of domestic violence against women during the time of the pandemic, statistics on male victims of domestic violence, as well as the need for legislative changes. Prof. Kovacheva answered the questions in full. She explained that within two months, 9 women were killed and 50 women were killed under domestic violence in 2020 and 2021. There's no official statistics, it's the media. According to the hotline, nearly 400 men have sought help. The increase in domestic violence during the pandemic situation is not a phenomenon only for Bulgaria. There is information that in the Member States of the European Union, cases have increased sharply by 30%. The Ombudsman pointed out that any person could become victims of violence, regardless of gender, economic status, education and social status, and therefore changes in regulations affect a broad group of people. Therefore, it is necessary for the Ministry of Justice to submit to the National Assembly the draft legislation for amendments to the Law on Domestic Violence, which also contains proposals from the Ombudsman. They are related not only to coordination between institutions, but also to providing effective opportunities for protecting victims and preventing violence. The Ombudsman insists in the Criminal Code that systemism should be abolished as a condition for the qualification of the act committed under domestic violence and for the criminalisation of all forms of domestic violence. The introduction of clear definitions of economic and mental violence. Following the vote, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The Commission also proposes a draft decision. Shall I read it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u97	Of course, yes, Professor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u98	Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u99	Thank you, Professor Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u100	The report for 2021 will read it Mr. Stefanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u101	Colleagues, I suggest that we now read the 2020 reports and then move on to the 2021 reports. Following is a report by the Commission on the direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. Mr. Balabanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The Commission on the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society at its regular meeting held on 17 February 2022 discussed and discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The report was presented by Mrs. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman" of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the performance of art. 22, para.1 and 4 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the activity report is submitted to the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 60,699 citizens and representatives of organizations received assistance from the Ombudsman. In one year, the admission of the national public defender passed 19,733 people. The largest share of complaints and signals received to the Ombudsman is from public service users, that is, the actions to protect the rights of citizens from monopoly companies, follow those with violations of social rights and related to the right to education and health. As key achievements of the institution for 2020, Mrs. Kovacheva pointed out the right to non-secessibility of funds granted as compensation in the context of an emergency epidemic situation. The case in the Constitutional Court was also recalled, which was unanimously defined as a violation of fundamental constitutional rights, initiated at the Ombudsman's request, concerning the withdrawal of the driving licence for unpaid fines, the removal of numbers and the enforcement of vehicles at the border for unpaid fines. A high intensity characterizes complaints about the rights of disabled people, with the implementation of the Medical Expert Control Information System being the step that would lead to improving the organisation of the work of the medical expertise bodies and ensuring the rights of disabled citizens. In the 2020 Annual Report, the Ombudsman highlights the campaign for legislative measures for more effective protection against domestic violence. The Ombudsman has actively worked with NGOs. There are numerous meetings throughout the country, a number of important campaigns have been held and supported. During the discussion the MPs said Stanislav Balabanov, Julia Ivanova and Branimir Balachev, who supported the presented report and expressed their opinion that the institution enjoys the trust of Bulgarian citizens. It has been stated categorically that the joint work of the Commission and the Ombudsman's institution is very important and useful in solving citizens' problems. On the basis of the report submitted and following the vote, the Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u103	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Colleagues, Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report. Mrs. Korcheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ombudsman! "COMMODITY" on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its meeting held on 16 February 2022 discussed and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 139-02-1. The meeting was attended by Prof. Dr. Diana Kovacheva, Professor of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ivan Andonov, Ivan Dechev and Hristina Rangelova. The annual report for 2020 was presented by Professor Diana Kovacheva, who paid particular attention to the continuing trend of complaints and signals concerning social rights to be among the most numerous to be addressed to the Ombudsman's institution. During the periods of dismissal, the Ombudsman's reception was visited by 1326 citizens and representatives of organizations and 6325 people called for information and/or consultation of the permanent phone in the reception room. The co-operating citizens are 19 743. The share of complaints related to labour rights and employment is the largest.. 521, social security and social security rights and benefits.. 379, followed by social assistance and social services.. 226, citizens' pension rights.. 220. During the year in defence of citizens' social rights, the Ombudsman made 517 recommendations and 512 were taken into account and 5 were partially implemented. Recommendations have been made in the direction of: urgent measures to support those in need of social support in the period of emergency; lifting of the condition that employers have made insurance contributions to workers as a condition for obtaining interest-free credit; broader prior information on the measures planned by the Ministry of Economy to support the State of the needy traders, self-employed and self-insuring; regulatory regulation of the possibility of the State's payment of health insurance contributions to persons using unpaid leave due to the exceptional epidemic situation announced. In the area of pension entitlement, the recommendations are in the direction of: setting up a legal mechanism to determine a minimum amount of retirement and age pensions; periodic recalculation of all pensions based on average social security income for 2016; dropping the ceiling of the maximum amount of pensions or the sum thereof. The complaints and alerts received in 2020 put on the agenda a number of problems and systemic deficiencies related to the policies for child care and adequate risk prevention, making more than 100 recommendations, mainly to the child protection authorities. The recommendations made are in the direction of: financial and social support for parents who raise their children and are left without income; against the closure of the daily centers for children with disabilities and the centers for special educational support. The Ombudsman found that they were not taken in full action to prepare children for their removal from institutions. The recommendations are against the closure of specialized institutions for children and their removal to another service in a period of extraordinary measures, increasing the quality of care in resident services and in crisis centres for children victims of violence. 2020 highlighted challenges in respect of the rights of people with disabilities in Bulgaria, which reflects in the larger number of complaints they filed in total 458. The complaints in which infringements were found made 138 recommendations were made and 66 opinions were expressed. Problem areas of violations are in monthly financial support, monthly support for children with disabilities, personal assistance, assistant assistance, aids and medical devices, accessible environments. The violations found and recommendations made justified the Ombudsman's legislative initiatives in 2020 in the field of social policy, namely: 1. preserving the non-secresibility of funds, banks and private judicial contractors granted as compensation in the context of an emergency epidemic situation of citizens whose employment has been affected by the crisis under the programme. 2. payment of additional remuneration of 1000 BGN to medical professionals in relation to their first-line duty; 3. the implementation of the Information System for the Control of Medical Expertise, to improve the organisation of the work of the bodies of medical expertise and to ensure the rights of disabled citizens; 4. Monthly benefits for raising children with disabilities under art. 8e of the Family Aid Act for children placed with close and voluntary foster families; 5. recognition of the expert decisions of TELK of the retirement age graduates for the relief of fees for the issue of personal documents; 6. dropping the fees for social services in the community provided remotely during the emergency situation. During the discussion of the questions of the MPs, the Ombudsman answered Mrs. Kovacheva. After a vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to make the following decision... I'll read the decision...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u105	Do not read it, Mrs. Korcheva, because one of the projects has already been presented to us. Thank you. Colleagues, who will present the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee Report? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Kovacheva, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria! "COMMODITY" on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. At its regular meeting on 6 March 2022, the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee discussed and discussed the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. The report was presented by Dr. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria." Ms. Kovacheva emphasized on the following: A large part of the issues the Ombudsman is engaged in are related to the activities of the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. In 2020, there is an increase in the number of citizens who have sought the assistance of the Ombudsman on various issues related to the violation of their rights. There is a tendency for citizens to address the Ombudsman with signatures and collective complaints. With a petition to the Ombudsman, more than 20 thousand pensioners have turned over in connection with the updating of pensions. The number of recommendations the Ombudsman has sent to the institutions is also increasing. Recommendations have been given on individual cases as well as general recommendations. The institution shall monitor the implementation of the recommendations given. Much of the complaints to the Ombudsman are about violated consumer rights related to water services, energy supply and heat supply services. Citizens refer to the Ombudsman for violations of their health rights and good administrative service. In connection with complaints about violations of labour and social rights during the pandemic, the Ombudsman has sent numerous recommendations, including the recommendation for non-secretability of the aid. The number of complaints against individuals such as: public service providers, banks, judicial contractors, fast credit companies and collector companies is increased. The following issues, on which the Ombudsman will work as a priority, require legislative changes: - energy poverty, energy aid and the quality of electricity supply services; - quality of water services; - the heat supply in relation to the opaque formation of the building fee and the formation of the countervailing accounts, the inability of individual refusal of heating services, the electronic measuring instruments; - gas supply; - the eternal debtor; - the right to property and economic freedom. It is proposed to conduct an information campaign for household consumers in connection with the full liberalisation of the energy market in 2025; to adopt a whole new law on water services in which to arrange a procedure for people who do not have quality drinking water to be able to pay a lower price; to compensate domestic consumers of natural gas receiving heat through boilers. Other complaints on which citizens have addressed the Ombudsman are related to the activities of electronic communications service providers and banks. There have been extremely many complaints against collector companies and fast credit companies. The Ombudsman's position is that the debtor must be informed by the original creditor when transferring the debt to a collector's company. In the case of fast loan companies are unfair clauses that are included in individual contracts and lending without a credit assessment, as well as a significant increase in the amount due for the term of the contract. With regard to pensioners, the problem lies that part of them who have retired further back in time and whose pensions are updated with the average monthly income at the time they retired. These pensioners remain with low pensions and do not feel the increases, which puts them in a situation of inequality. According to the Ombudsman, their pensions should also be updated with the average monthly insurance income for the previous year. In conclusion, Mrs. Kovacheva pointed out that the topics the Ombudsman is dealing with are many, but she and her team are making great efforts to check the complaints received, to respond to any complaint and to address any public problem. Questions to the Ombudsman on the report asked the MPs Denitsa Simeonova, Rumen Hristov, Adlen Shevked and Martin Dimitrov. Mr. Martin Dimitrov asked about the interaction between the Ombudsman and the Consumer Protection Commission regarding complaints about violations of consumer rights. Mrs. Diana Kovacheva replied that there was good contact between the two institutions, but the Ombudsman carried out his own checks and addressed directly the institutions against which complaints were lodged. The Ombudsman noted that all recommendations were published on the institution's website. To Mr. Martin Dimitrov's question whether the draft Law on the recovery of claims under consumer contracts was consulted by the Ombudsman Mrs. Diana Kovacheva replied that she had not participated in the working group, but sent an opinion on the published draft law for public discussion. She raised the question of notifying debtors when their debt was transferred to a collector's company. It has also proposed to allow borrowers to choose their debt to be collected by a collector company or by a court contractor. Mrs. Diana Kovacheva noted that the subject of the court performers is also a major topic on which she has listened to many citizens. In 2020, a review was also carried out by representatives of the Commission on petitions and complaints by citizens in the European Parliament. Until now, the issue of the protection of guarantors who are responsible for all their assets has not been resolved, but have not been notified in due time. Ms. Kovacheva noted that it is very important for the register of collectors companies to function and for people to be informed about the amount of their debt. Point out that a clear link has been established between the fast credit companies and the collector companies and it is important that the CPC ensure that unfair conditions are not allowed in the general terms of the contracts concluded by fast credit companies. Mr. Martin Dimitrov made a proposal to the Ombudsman to inform the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation when he established unfair clauses in contracts with consumers and to send questions of the Commission's competence directly to the MPs, members of the Commission, in order to take appropriate measures more quickly and better cooperation between the Ombudsman and the National Assembly. Mr. Alexander Ivanov congratulated Mrs. Kovacheva on the work carried out by the institution and on the report presented, which she described as comprehensive. After the presentation and discussion of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results:...................... 10 votes.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The next report is from the Committee on Environment and Water. Mr. Manol Genov or one of the Commission's deputies? I can't see. Isn't there a representative of the Environment and Water Commission? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u108	♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. At a regular meeting held on 17 March 2022, the Environment and Water Commission discussed the report cited above in the environmental part. The meeting was attended by Prof. Dr. Diana Kovacheva Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Petya Karadzhova, Head of the Department of Property, Mrs. Hristina Rangelova, Chief Expert of the Ombudsman's Administration, and Mr. Toma Belev, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The report was presented by Professor Kovacheva. It noted that in 2020, the number of environmental complaints and signals increased by 25%. Out of 535 complaints relating to the right to a clean environment, 285 are for violations by the state authorities and their administrations, while 239 are for the local authorities of self-government. In 433 cases an infringement was found and the Ombudsman made recommendations. Most of the complaints are related to air quality. The Ombudsman informed the Members of the National Assembly that six hearings of citizens were held together with Sofia Municipality on this topic during the period 2019. The report gives recommendations for implementing measures for implementation of the objectives of the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality in the period 2018 - 2024. It was highlighted that there were also many complaints related to the protection of the living environment from unpleasant smells. In this regard, proposals have been made for the establishment of regulations and standards for reporting air pollution from bad smelling substances. State health control measures should also be proposed to assess and monitor human health from the effects of biogas plants located in or near the settlements. Another part of the complaints relate to violations of the right to public participation in the decision-making process on environmental issues; rebuilding; ignoring environmental impact assessments and illegal logging. Attitude of the submitted report took the MPs Tatiana Sultanova, Mladen Shishkov, Desislava Taneva, Fatme Ramadan, Emil Georgiev and Manol Genov. Questions have been raised concerning the number of complaints sent to the competent authorities that have found a solution; whether there have been complaints related to waste and what actions have been taken. The topics related to water and heating services were also discussed. Prof. Kovacheva explained that about 50% of the recommendations given were taken into account by the competent authorities and the applicants were satisfied. In terms of waste, it stressed that collective complaints were received related to illegal landfills near settlements, as well as the calculation of waste charge. With regard to consumer rights, the Ombudsman noted that the most complaints are in water quality services related to water quality and total water losses. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously, with 15 votes for the European Parliament, with no objection and no abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government presents ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria At a regular meeting held on 15 February 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The report was presented by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Diana Kovacheva. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 60,669 citizens and representatives of civil organisations have been assisted by the Ombudsman in solving their problems. The Ombudsman made 2534 recommendations on complaints and alerts of citizens and organisations, 8668 opinions were expressed. All requests from the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court are granted by waiting for a decision on the issue of dropping the restriction on obtaining a reduced pension to life in the event of early retirement to one year before the age required. In 2020 three new forms of interaction with the citizens were introduced in the practice. The event was organized by virtual admissions in the context of an epidemic crisis, direct access of citizens to mobile phones of all experts, held virtual public discussions on hot topics to deal with the crisis of COVID-19. According to the completed complaints and alerts, the highest number of infringements were identified by the state authorities and their administrations, followed by the municipal authorities and their administrations, persons entrusted with the provision of public services and private entities. The biggest share is the complaints and signals related to the services provided by the water companies, heating, maintenance of roads and their poor condition, provision of administrative services, banks, collectors companies, fast credit companies and others. A small part of the complaints are related to the lack of an accessible environment for people with disabilities. With regard to water services, complaints are about lack of connection between quality and price of services, accounting for total consumption, huge losses on the network. With regard to heating services, discontent is due to countervailable accounts, payment on the basis of estimated prices and estimated consumption. The problems of the citizens are also related to the differences in data in the Cadaster with data from the spatial plans, air cleanness, rebuilding in large cities, conservation and maintenance of green areas, illegal construction, conducting public discussions on spatial plans and others. There are also problems regarding the deletion of the address registration of persons who are unlawfully registered at the relevant address, the absence of an address registration of persons and the inability to supply identity documents and use of the resulting rights and the refusals to issue identity documents in the event of unpaid fines at the DMV. The Ombudsman positively assessed the decision found with regard to the technical passports of the buildings, and after a change in the regulation the obligation for a significant part of the citizens to passport the built-in residential buildings has been exhausted. As problems continuing the work of finding a solution, the Ombudsman drew attention to the need for the adoption of the Water Act, changes in the requirements for the ecotiques of cars, finding a legislative solution relating to the removal of illegal buildings that are the only dwellings of residents and their accommodation in other homes corresponding to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. A decision must also be found with regard to the possibility of returning the funds for wrongly paid tarts back in time and informing citizens of the error of pay. The Ombudsman expressed hope that a better solution would be found in calculating and determining the amount of pensions to improve the situation of pensioners. The Ombudsman is prepared to propose an acceptable solution to the problems arising from the need for changes to the Law on Construction in the area in the part relating to the application of street regulation and the issuing of a building permit, the introduction of construction works into operation and the construction of the street network. In the course of the discussion, the Members of the National Assembly were concerned about the various issues concerned in the Ombudsman's report. The chairman of the committee Mr. Ananiev pointed out that a new model is being worked on in terms of pensions and improving the situation of pensioners, as the problems outlined in the Report for 2020 are still up to date. He noted that work was also being done on the issue of finding a solution to abuse of the address registration, allowing the new owner of the property to request the deletion of all previous registrations of persons who no longer live at this address. Mr. Ananiev also raised the question of the Ombudsman's ability to organise information centres for free consultation of citizens about their rights. He also drew attention to the need to pay serious attention to an extremely ill problem related to harassment and violence among students by organising discussions and finding solutions on these issues. Mr. Ananiev also raised the issue of coordination and interaction by the Ombudsman with the municipal ombudsmen. Ms. Kovacheva replied that the institution had started discussions with stakeholders on the issues of violence against children. She stressed that it is possible to organise in one form or another, and that they have been organised in different partnerships and formats, events to provide consultations to citizens to get acquainted with their rights. With regard to municipal ombudsmen, good interaction was highlighted, but the problem is the small number of municipal ombudsmen, and the problem is partly related to the requirement of the law for the election of municipal ombudsmen with a majority of two thirds of the total number of advisers, as well as the funding. Mr. Escheref expressed his opinion that if the activities of municipal ombudsmen are financed by the state, such would be elected in many municipalities, which in turn would loosen the Ombudsman's enormous commitment to a certain extent. Mr. Genov raised the question of the need for interaction between the Commission and the Ombudsman and providing expert proposals to improve the legislation in the area of competence of the Commission. The Ombudsman expressed willingness to work together and to submit proposals for amendments to the relevant laws. Mr. Lozev referred to the quality of the services provided by the water companies, noting that there are no treatment facilities. Regarding the complaints that exist with the reporting of the common water meters, he noted that no other solution has been found so far. Considered also the need for legislative changes relating to the problems of returning funds in the event of error of payment and of informing citizens. Mr. Enchev addressed the quality of the water services by raising the question of the need to find a solution for the use of purified water for irrigation. Mr. Georgiev took note of the technical passports of the buildings, noting that they are necessary to establish the status of the buildings, as well as technical reviews for cars and periodic reviews for citizens, therefore he does not share the changes made in the regulations. Mrs. Avramova said that with regard to the technical passports of the buildings, a balanced solution should be sought, like what was done in relation to the development of the common planning plans to help municipalities with funds from the state in order not to be a financial burden for the citizens. The Ombudsman justified his position with the need to protect citizens from the financial obligations assigned to them by not contesting the need for technical passports. Ms. Kirova pointed out that better control is needed in the implementation of the renovations in buildings, taking into account that the old buildings are built under other standards and regulations, as well as to find a way to help citizens. Mr. Tashev raised questions related to the services provided by the heating companies and drew attention to the problems related to the appliances for measuring air pollution and management of floor property. The majority of the MPs who spoke positively appreciated the Ombudsman's role in resolving citizens' problems in their relations with local authorities and public service providers, as well as the findings and recommendations for improving their activities. The members of the committee believe that the more active involvement of the Ombudsman and representatives of his administration in the discussions on separate bills, as well as proposals for changes in legislation arising from the problems identified in practice, will contribute not only to improving the interaction between the institutions, but will also be useful for improving the regulations aimed at guaranteeing citizens' rights. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Bulgaria for 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u111	Thank you, Mr. Lozev. The next report is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Mr. Chenchev, please read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. At its regular meeting held on 16 March 2022, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021, on the basis of art. 22, para. 1 of the Ombudsman Act. Guests at the meeting were Dr. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria," Mrs. Eva Zhecheva On behalf of the importer, the report, in the part which is part of the Commission's competence, the rights of the child, was presented by Mrs. Kovacheva. In her statement, she noted that the institution's activities for 2020 in relation to children's rights were defined as a year of active communication and actions to promote and protect children's rights, and the issue "Justice for Children" was given priority in the Ombudsman's work. The report shows that complaints and alerts received in 2020 pose problems and systemic deficiencies related to child care policies as well as adequate risk prevention. In parallel, the Ombudsman stressed that the year went under the sign of the CIVID-19 pandemic, social isolation and economic crises in families, which puts on the agenda dealing with the following problems: children's health, mental suffering and anxiety, domestic violence, online education and digital division. The Ombudsman informed that he had made over 100 recommendations on specific issues, others concerning the rights of large groups of children. The recommendations are mainly to the child protection authorities. In 2020, the number of complaints relating to limited access to education of children with special educational needs remained stable. This vulnerable group of children was severely affected in 2020 by the health crisis And in 2020, complaints from parents that they were deprived of the opportunity to communicate fully with their children represent a large part of the complaints to the Ombudsman. There is no significant progress towards the effectiveness of the actions of the protection authorities to protect the rights and interests of children involved in parental conflicts. The Ombudsman recommends that specialists such as psychologists, mediators take part in working with parents to inform parents of the impact of their conflicting relationships on their child's development. At the end of its presentation, the Ombudsman stressed the need to introduce in our internal legislation the standards laid down in Directive (EU) 2016/800 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused of criminal proceedings and the full transposition of Directive 2012/29/EU, thereby ensuring equal access for all children victims of crime to protection measures and specialised support services. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Deyan Petkov, Tsveta Galunova, Inna Ivanova, Vassil Zashkev and Ivan Chenchev, who drew attention to impaired coordination in the relations of the teacher People's representative Ivan Chenchev drew the Ombudsman's attention to the drastic increase of the complaints about nearly 20 times compared to 2019 for violations related to the protection of the rights of the child in the justice system. The Ombudsman answered the questions and clarified that, on the one hand, the active activity of the institution has an impact on the increased number of citizens who turn to it, but the fact that it is delaying the adoption of the new legislation on children in conflict with the law, with which special rules for working with these children will be adopted, including the requirement for coordination with local committees to combat anti-social events. The members of the Commission have expressed their willingness to work together for better protection of children's rights to ensure fair access to justice for every child in Bulgaria and to adopt the new legislation. On the basis of the 16-vote vote in favour of abstention, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. The next report belongs to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" of the Committee on Health on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. At its regular meeting held on 31 March 2022, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Professor Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Petar Gribnev, Director of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The report was presented by Professor Kovacheva, who informed the MPs that the protection of citizens' rights in health care is among the priorities in the work of the institution in 2020, which passed under the sign of COVID-19. A number of anti-epidemic measures have been introduced in the context of the declared state of emergency and subsequently an emergency epidemic situation, with which many citizens disagree, believing that they violate their rights and freedoms. A number of issues that have been looking for a solution in recent years have once again been brought to the attention of the Ombudsman, both by citizens and by patient, professional, conditional organisations and medical staff. The Ombudsman's report traditionally examines and systematizes the problems, taking into account complaints and signals received, while the institution carefully monitors the public reactions and is seizing itself in cases of breaches or endangered civil rights and freedoms. Prof. Kovacheva explained that in 2020 870 complaints and signals related to violations of health rights have been received in the Ombudsman's administration, which represents 30% more than the complaints in 2019 and 43% more than those received in 2018. The proportion of complaints and complaints related to health rights to the total number of complaints received has been steadily increasing over the last three years: 2018. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, '6.57 percent. 312 recommendations on the occasion of 557 complaints and signals related to the protection of citizens' rights during the CIVID-19 pandemic and the anti-epidemic measures introduced in this regard; problems in the issue of a hospital quarantine list; temporary termination of medical activities and access to medical services; impaired access to medicinal products; payment of the CIVID-19 tests; violation of anti-epidemic measures and disagreement with restrictions for Bulgarian citizens entering the country. Prof. Kovacheva pointed out that the CIVID-19 pandemic put the country's health care to the test and brought to the fore a number of problems and risks, which, besides increasing the health funds, requires the need to reform the system. The Ombudsman considers that taking measures to promote health and disease prevention is an important condition to prevent the occurrence of severe diseases and disabilities, which requires the need to extend screening studies to early detection of socially significant diseases. On the other hand, limiting citizens' access to specialists as well as medical-diagnostic research through the limits introduced by the National Health Insurance Fund in outpatient and hospital care, creates prerequisites for violating the rights of health insured persons and should be removed. For another year, no solution to the problem of non-payment or payment was found insufficiently with public funds of medical devices and costly supplies, which puts patients at risk and endangers both their right of access to health and the restoration of their workforce and opportunities for living in good health. According to the Ombudsman, it is appropriate to discuss and regulate opportunities for the provision of healthcare in the patient's home by healthcare professionals from health care ambulators. Urgent measures should be taken to address the problems arising from the lack of access of citizens to long-term treatment, palliative care and health care, as well as to rehabilitation of sufficient volume and duration. Prof. Kovacheva stressed that urgent changes in the field of medical expertise are needed to ensure fair evaluation, including of people with multiple disabilities, as well as measures to overcome the delay of expertise from territorial expert medical committees and the National Expert Medical Commission. It made recommendations to remove the requirement of insurance income for citizens with congenital diseases and those who arose before the start of work as a condition for the granting of an invalidity pension due to a general illness and for the regulation of the determination of life-long reduced performance, type and degree of disability where the resulting disability is defined. In 2020, the trend of increasing complaints and signals regarding the quality of medical services is maintained, with the majority related to hospital care, cases of disability and death of the patient. Citizens share their negative impressions of the organisation of work and treatment of patients, report uncertain access to health information and note that they have witnessed unethical treatment by medical staff to patients. The Ombudsman considers that a change in the system of financing hospitals is necessary, while increasing control over the quality of their activities taking into account patient satisfaction. It is necessary to draw up a long-term strategy for training and staffing, as well as to ensure decent pay, which is one of the mandatory conditions for the quality of medical services and the protection of patients' rights. The accelerated introduction of eHealth is also imperative, which is expected to lead to more effective control of costs in the system. With regard to outpatient medical care in 2020, citizens have most often complained about the volume and quality of medical care provided to them by general practitioners or doctors from their replacement medical care offices. Complaints indicate that doctors do not respond to the patient's call or provide medical assistance over the phone without examination. In his report, the Ombudsman also expressed concern about the persistent trend in recent years in reducing the number of general practitioners in the country, as well as their uneven distribution by districts. Traditionally large remains the share of complaints due to refusals to issue consultation and joint treatment directions by a specialist, as well as the appointment of medical-diagnostic studies. Complaints by specialists are mainly on the occasion of refusal to issue directions for expensive research. During the year, the number of complaints and alerts received in relation to the activities of the CIVID zones, the volume and quality of medical care provided therein is increasing. Many complaints state that they do not work on Saturdays and Sundays that there are none found throughout the country, that they work at a limited time during the day, and when the CIVID centre is visited, the patient is examined once, then directed to follow-up by the general practitioner. In practice, it comes back to personal doctors who are not unloaded from the COVID centers system. Prof. Kovacheva pointed out that the assessment of the work of this type of centers is not entirely good. In relation to complaints and alerts received by the institution, recommendations have been made regularly to the competent control authorities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... During the discussion the President of the Committee on Health Associate Professor Anton Tonev emphasized the extremely important role of the Ombudsman institution for the Bulgarian society, as well as the need for a good dialogue between the legislature and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in finding lasting solutions for the benefit of all citizens of the country. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 11......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. The report of the Committee on Education and Science Mrs. Irena Anastasova is in the Chamber. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. At its regular meeting held on 30 March 2022, the Education and Science Committee discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021. The meeting was attended by Prof. Dr. Diana Kovacheva, Professor Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Atanaska Mutafchieva, Chief Expert at the Department of Social Rights, Education, Health and Environment and the Administration of the Ombudsman and Hristina Rangelova, Senior Expert at the Press Centre of the Ombudsman. The report was presented by Professor Diana Kovacheva. More than 60,000 citizens turned to the Ombudsman's institution in 2020. Of these, more than 13,000 have filed written complaints with requests for verification. More than 2,800 recommendations have been made in relation to these complaints. The areas in which the most affected rights are social and labour rights, unlawful actions by individuals, the right to health and education and the rights of disabled persons. In the past 2020, a total of 1061 complaints and signals were received in the field of education, which is 200% more than 2019. The Ombudsman's main priority for 2020 was the protection of the right of children and young people to equal access to quality education under the conditions of the Coronavirus CIVID-19 pandemic. Prof. Kovacheva pointed out that in the field of education the crisis has imposed the transition to distance learning in an electronic environment (so called distance or online training) of students and has outlined new problems related to access to education and technology, increased inequalities and differences in the educational environment in the country. Special attention is paid to the problems of online training, educational deficits and especially the problems of children with special educational needs, violence at school and the topic of children at risk. In connection with numerous complaints, most of them related to the problems posed by the Coronavirus pandemic CIVID-19, the Ombudsman made a number of recommendations to the competent authorities and to the guidance of higher schools that have been taken into account. Prof. Kovacheva pointed out some problems related to access to higher education. It was pointed out that every year the criteria for applying were changed. Many of the complaints received also relate to competitions for holding academic positions, for which the Ombudsman prepares a special recommendation. The discussion included MPs Andrey Chorbanov, Kostadin Angelov, Mikhail Iliev, Petar Nikolov, Krasimir Valchev, Hristo Simeonov, Denitsa Sacheva and Irena Anastasova. The MPs united around the opinion that the report is comprehensive, serious attention has been paid to the existing problems and solutions have been found to many of them, for which they congratulated Professor Kovacheva for the well done work. The question was raised about finding an appropriate form or way in which obvious administrative problems concerning administrative acts, laws or separate documents would reach lawmakers so that they could be discussed and resolved in the committees. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held unanimously by 16 votes for the Education and Science Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 139-02-1 submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 16 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Colleagues, this was the last report on the 2020 report. I am now giving half an hour's rest, and then we will continue with the consideration of opinions on the 2021 Report. Thank you. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u118	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. On the Ombudsman's Report 2021, first the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation. For your opinion, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Kovacheva! "COMMODITY" on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 6 April 2022, the Economic Policy and Innovation Committee examined the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. The report was presented by Professor Diana Kovacheva. In 2021, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 64,936 citizens and representatives of organisations have received assistance from the Ombudsman. The number of citizens united in signatures on various issues is 30 575 and the complaints and signals submitted are 13 563. The complaints against public service providers in 2021 again come first among all complaints. Prof. Kovacheva noted that unsolved problems with providing services in the conditions of monopoly are deepening for years. To date, there is no mechanism for fair compensation for the users affected in frequent and long-term power outages, which in some cases last for years. A legal wording of the concept of energy poverty is required, which covers a maximum number of users, and the distinction between customers of domestic and non-bit should be according to what purposes electricity is purchased and not in view of the type of property. There are signatures against poor services, mostly in the water sector. The Ombudsman believes that a whole new Water and Sewerage Act should be adopted to guarantee consumer rights. Complaints against heat supply companies are linked to poor provision of services, high countervailing accounts and increased heat bills from building installations. According to the Ombudsman, heat supply needs to be taken as a priority in the work of the legislative, executive and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The number of complaints related to gas supply problems is doubled compared to 2020. The main reason for these is the sharp increase in natural gas prices for domestic customers on the domestic market in the second half of 2021. In this regard, the Ombudsman sends a recommendation to gas companies for the temporary extension of the deadline for payment of monthly natural gas supplies to domestic customers, as well as for the non-interruption of the submission of natural gas in default. Complaints and alerts against mobile operators are mainly for increased accounts, insufficient or misleading information when concluding contracts, quality of services and accrued amounts for unsolicited services. The Ombudsman insists that mobile operators provide accurate information on the parameters of contracts prior to their conclusion. Due to the deepening problems of citizens with the collection companies (collectors) and the rapid credit companies, the Ombudsman believes that it is necessary to resolve the legislative implementation of rules in the activities of collectors and rapid credit companies and to strengthen control over these companies. In 2021, the Ombudsman made five requests to the Constitutional Court to establish an unconstitutionality of a law concerning violation of civil rights. The Constitutional Court has delivered a decision to declare the unconstitutionality of legal provisions on four of these requests and with a definition of eligibility under the fifth request. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Denitsa Simeonova asked if there was a need for legislative changes in order to implement decisions of the European Court of Human Rights against Bulgaria and whether actions were taken by the Ombudsman on the problem of hate speech. The Ombudsman replied that these decisions were implemented in the part of payment of benefits, but were not implemented in the part of general measures, which could lead to a re-condemning of Bulgaria. According to the Ombudsman, the problem with hate speech is that this type of violence is treated by the Penal Code as a hooligan act, but it is actually a completely different type of crime. We need not only legislative changes, but also training officials to identify and differentiate cases of hooliganism from hate speech and violence. People's representative Adlenn Shevked asked whether the Ombudsman's institution was self-sustaining the violation of the rights of disadvantaged people during the elections in 2021 by the law enforcement authorities. The Ombudsman replied that during the last two choices he opened a hotline on the day of the election to obtain information and to report irregularities. People's representative Rumen Hristov raised a question about the possibility of correcting falsely declared data when buying an electronic tart. The problem, according to Professor Kovacheva, is that these cases are aligned with cases where there is no payment of a toll. It insists that the offenders be informed in due time of their fines and that the necessary assessment of a minor case is made under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. She has informed the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Grozdan Karadjov about numerous complaints about compensation fees due to the error in the registration number of the car. After the presentation and discussion of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47 239 02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u120	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Balabanov, please read the Commission report on direct participation of citizens and interaction with civil society. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. The Commission on the direct participation of citizens and the interaction with civil society at its regular meeting held on 12 May 2022 discussed and discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. The report was presented by Mrs. Diana Kovacheva "Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria." In the performance of art. 22, para.1 and 4 of the Ombudsman Act The activity report has been submitted to the National Assembly. In 2021 64 936 citizens and representatives of organizations received assistance from the Ombudsman. In the same year the institution focused on three new campaigns to support the rights of vulnerable groups of citizens: Campaign for adoption of legislative measures to protect against domestic violence, National Campaign In one year, 20,825 people passed through the National Public Defender's reception hall. The largest share of complaints and alerts received to the Ombudsman is from public service users, that is to say, actions to protect citizens' rights from monopoly companies, follow those with violations of property rights and health rights. As one of the key achievements of the institution for 2021 Mrs. Kovacheva pointed out the choice of the Bulgarian Ombudsman in the world and European organizations of the national human rights institutions. In her words, this is recognition for the work of the institution in accordance with the highest UN standards and human rights protection. In 2021, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria made five requests to the Constitutional Court to establish an unconstitutionality of a law concerning violation of civil rights. The Constitutional Court has delivered a decision to declare the unconstitutionality of legislative provisions on four of these requests and with a definition of eligibility on the fifth request. Ms. Kovacheva recalled that in 2021, following a campaign by the Ombudsman, the Bulgarian government introduced the possibility of issuing a certificate of diseased COVID-19 based on a rapid antigen test, as well as a high antibody test. On the basis of the report presented and following the vote, the Commission proposes to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Next is the Report of the Committee on Education and Science. Ma'am, Anastasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. At its regular meeting held on 18 May 2022, the Education and Science Committee discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. The meeting was attended by Prof. Dr. Diana Kovacheva, Professor Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Atanaska Mutafchieva, Senior Expert, Department of Social Rights, Education, Health and Environment, from the administration of the Ombudsman and Hristina Rangelova, Senior Expert, Press Centre of the Ombudsman. The Ministry of Education and Science took part in the meeting were Mrs. Penka Ivanova Director of the Department of Schools and School Documentation and Mr. Plamen Slavov. The report was presented by Professor Diana Kovacheva. A focus is placed on three new campaigns to support the rights of vulnerable groups of citizens: to adopt legislative measures to protect against domestic violence; blue summers to support children's mental health aimed at students in order to help children and their parents overcome the consequences of the isolation caused by COVID 19; protection of pensioners' rights. In 2021, the Ombudsman's administration received more complaints and signals than the previous year. In the system of pre-school education the most frequently asked questions are about the insufficient number of seats in the nursery and gardens in the territory of Sofia Municipality, as well as receiving compensation for unattended children. The topics related to problems in school education during the period are the most numerous and diverse. They relate mainly to the introduction of anti-epidemic measures to limit the spread of COVID-19; the establishment of health safety conditions for students and teachers at school in the presence of training; the need for psychologists in schools; the difficulties associated with conducting distance training in electronic environment; the content and complexity of study programmes, the lack of sufficient hours on certain subjects for training and knowledge validation; insufficient extracurricular activities and sports in schools; the scope of the topics included in the examinations of the national external assessment for IV and X grade, as well as state maturity examinations after XII grade. In the field of higher education, complaints and alerts are related to the difficulties for students and lecturers in stopping attendance training in higher schools in relation to measures to limit the spread of CIVID 19. The conduct of examinations, practices and internships and delaying the conduct of state examinations; problems related to stay and fees in student dorms and others. The Ombudsman has also asked questions about the procedures for holding academic positions, as well as about the low and demotivating payment of PhD students at universities and scientists and PhD students at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The discussion included the MPs Irena Anastasova, Andrey Chorbanov, Plamen Nikolov, Mikhail Iliev, Krasimir Valchev, Hristo Simeonov and Mukaddes Nalbant. In their speeches, the MPs pointed out that the Ombudsman's activity report in 2021 was professional and showed commitment to the problems of education. A detailed review has been carried out and a number of problems have been addressed. As a result of the timely action taken by the institution, many recommendations have been taken into account and solutions have been found. The MPs gave their positive opinion on its adoption, saying more attention should be paid to the Ombudsman's recommendations. Following the conclusion of the discussion and held a vote unanimously with 12 votes, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Ananiev, who will present the report? Mr. Lozev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, dear Mrs. Ombudsman! The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government shall present: ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria At a regular meeting held on 12 April 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. The report was presented by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Diana Kovacheva. She stressed that a large part of the problems that the Ombudsman presented to the Commission in the Activity Report in 2020 are relevant and are also reflected in the Ombudsman's presented Activity Report in 2021 and a corresponding comparison has been made with the data from 2020. The general trend of an increase in complaints to the Ombudsman continued in 2021, with nearly 65 thousand citizens addressing the Ombudsman with various complaints, complaints, seeking advice, assistance and support. The number of written complaints with requests for specific checks and the number of petitions for group problems, pensions, water quality, increased price and the relationship between quality and supply of electricity and others has increased. Compared to 2020, there was some reduction in complaints to public authorities and their administrations in 2021, but by nearly 10% the complaints against public service providers increased, with the number of complaints and signals from public service users being around 30% and being the largest of the total number of complaints. In comparison with 2020 in 2021, first among consumers' complaints are electricity-related complaints. The increase and expected increase in the price of electricity are among the leading problems, but traditional complaints from the lack of an effective mechanism for compensation for poor quality of the supplied electricity and the burning of electrical appliances continue. The Ombudsman drew attention to the need for a legislative settlement of the concept of energy poverty, in order to clarify the circle of persons to be compensated. Another problem that is expected to be resolved is the suspension of the payment of industrial electricity by some categories of domestic consumers. The distinction between customers of domestic and non-bit should be according to what purposes electricity is purchased and not in view of the type of property. The number of complaints related to gas supply problems is doubled compared to 2020. The main reason for these is the sharp increase in natural gas prices for domestic customers on the domestic market in the second half of 2021. In this regard, the Ombudsman sends a recommendation to gas companies for the temporary extension of the deadline for payment of monthly natural gas supplies to domestic customers, as well as for the non-interruption of the submission of natural gas in default. The Ombudsman has sent two recommendations to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Energy in relation to the sharp increase in gas and compensation to citizens who are heated only to gas and the uneven treatment of missed domestic natural gas consumers, and it is recommended that they be reimbursed retroactively from October. In 2021, the signatures against poor services and in the water sector continued, with the Ombudsman continuing to maintain the need to adopt a whole new Water and Sewerage Act to guarantee consumer rights. The ongoing complaints against the heat supply companies are linked to the poor provision of services, high countervailing accounts and increased heat bills from building installations. According to the Ombudsman, heat supply needs to be taken as a priority in the work of the legislative, executive and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Complaints and alerts against mobile operators are mainly for increased accounts, insufficient or misleading information when concluding contracts, quality of services and accrued amounts for unsolicited services. The Ombudsman insists that mobile operators provide accurate information on the parameters of contracts prior to their conclusion. Due to the deepening problems of citizens with the recovery companies and the fast-credit companies, the Ombudsman believes that it is necessary to resolve the legislative introduction of rules in the activities of collectors and rapid-credit companies and to strengthen control over these companies. The complaints of citizens against mobile operators continue, with the majority related to insufficient or misleading information in the conclusion of contracts, with accrued amounts for unsolicited services and others. Problems continue to exist with regard to the deletion of the address registration of persons who have been unlawfully registered at the relevant address, the absence of an address registration of persons and the inability to supply identity documents and use of the rights deriving from this, as well as the refusals to issue identity documents in the event of unpaid fines at the DMV. The Ombudsman drew attention to complaints by citizens related to declarations of exemption from the charge for municipal waste when the property is not used throughout the year. Although the term under Law is up to the end of the year, the regulations of certain municipalities have introduced an earlier deadline until 30 October, and regardless of the Ombudsman's intervention, the relevant municipalities have refused to adjust their regulations, so the prosecution is requested to challenge the regulations in court. The Ombudsman takes into account as successful actions on recognition of a green certificate for people with antibodies suffering from COVID-19, the impending removal of vehicle ecotiques, the modification of the methodology for technical examinations. The Ombudsman announced that he had made a proposal for a legislative settlement of citizens' problems with faulty wine stickers and expressed his hope that he would receive support from the MPs in order to find a solution and in terms of the possibility to return the funds for wrongly paid wine back in time and to inform citizens of the error of pay. All requests from the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court are granted by waiting for a decision on the issue of dropping the restriction on obtaining a reduced pension to life in the event of early retirement to one year before the age required. Information was also provided on the Ombudsman's activities regarding refugees from Ukraine. In the course of the discussion, the speakers of the National Assembly were concerned about the various problems affected in the report. The President of the Commission Mr. Nastimir Ananiev raised a question as to what is the Ombudsman's opinion on the consolidation of municipalities and the improvement of administrative service, as well as on the withdrawal of vehicles in the use of alcohol and drugs. Ms. Kovacheva said that the consolidation of municipalities is a matter of a political solution, but it is not clear how much this will improve access to administrative services. In many cases, citizens complain that they do not manage to get to the institutions, to participate in public discussions and whether the relationship with citizens will improve when it is overturned. Regarding the idea of the withdrawal of vehicles in the use of alcohol and drugs, she said that the rights of third parties should be taken into account and respected if the vehicle was not owned by the person who was driving intoxicated or after drug use, setting an example with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has respected the Ombudsman's request. People's representative Yordan Terziyski raised a question as to what the Ombudsman could benefit from the government's platform for refugees from Ukraine. Ms. Kovacheva replied that she has sent recommendations regarding the status of temporary protection. The platform works, but there are many practical issues and on these and other issues it will submit a separate report. People's representative Zarko Marinov raised the issue of citizens without identity documents and from where is the information that 80 thousand people are without documents, noting that the parents of the children, after they are 16 years old, should be responsible for the supply of documents. Mrs. Kovacheva replied that the information is from NGOs, stressing that the issue is really serious because many people live in illegal constructions, which is why they cannot register at home and thus cannot start work, use social, health and other services. The President of the Commission pointed out that work is also being done on the issue of finding a solution to the abuse of the address registration, allowing the new owner of the property to request the deletion of all previous registrations of persons who no longer live at this address. If several times the ownership of one property is changed and the previous owners have not checked out, the latter owner will not be able to register at the relevant address. A working solution must be sought, including if necessary, a round table with stakeholders. With regard to refugees from Ukraine Mr. Ananiev stressed that the government website gives very good information to all who need it and is sure that the new leadership of the State Agency for Refugees will ensure that the necessary assistance is provided. The Ombudsman agreed that the system is working, but noted that many people are entering and therefore it is necessary to strengthen the measures, all the more so that this temporary protection is a novelty and all the countries concerned face similar problems. As regards the address registration, she agreed with Mr. Ananiev's proposal to organise a public discussion with the Commission on issues involving all interested parties. People's representative Escheref Eschereff pointed out that the problems of citizens related to the requirement of municipalities to provide declarations within an earlier period are related to another obligation of municipalities to update the bills and determine the amount of the household waste charge for the following year, for which a deadline is foreseen by the end of October and obviously a change in the law must be sought. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 15 votes for the European Parliament, with no objection and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 47 239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u126	Thank you, Mr. Lozev. Mr. Chenchev, for procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u127	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is as follows. I suggest we extend the working hours until we accept t. 4, namely, the first vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act, as we, as a party and as the social pillar in this government, hold on to this thing, first, and, secondly, we have seen what disputes have arisen here today, it is now nice that this extremely important law should be seen in this Chamber and that everyone should state their arguments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let's work up to t. 4 including. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u130	Honourable Members, is there a reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u131	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u132	Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u133	My fellow Members, I am doing the opposite opinion by proposing, if we are going to extend the time, to extend it to the next point that we need to discuss. Thank you. The next item on the program I think is after the one that is on the "We are continuing the Change" which we are currently discussing is the proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u134	In practice, my fellow Members, we have two separate proposals to vote on separately. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I believe that we should not extend the working time of the National Assembly at all, as we have important committees this afternoon,.......................................................................... These are all important topics which, if we extend the plenary time at all today, respectively, the sitting will not be able to deal with these issues, and therefore my proposal is not to extend the working time, it will end in time as it is at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u136	Thank you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u137	I'm withdrawing my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u138	You're withdrawing your offer? Okay. In this situation, we must vote on the procedural proposal made by Mr. Ivan Chenchev, which is essentially up to the point. 4 including. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, not from a place, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is complementary to Mr. Chenchev's proposal. I suggest that we extend today's plenary day to acceptance and consideration and so on. 5 The proposal of the "Democratic Bulgaria" for the requested committee for the "Lukoil Neftohim Burgas" is a topic that excites everyone, so I think it is important for society and for parliament and I hope that you will support this proposal, colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u140	Thank you. Krum Zarkov asked for the floor by procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u141	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, at the risk of stopping Mrs. Atanasova from building on Mr. Svilensky's proposals, to ask you to stop taking the citizens, the House and all of you for being stupider than yourself. The only purpose of these proposals, which are made from the left and right, is to look at them. 2 The Election Code. [[(Applause from]] This point is not among the 22nd laws for which there is an urgent need. This item is not on the agenda of the Bulgarian society. This point is absolutely not necessary and does not need to be viewed. With regard to the Personal Aid Act, it can be looked at tomorrow, if there is such a desire. At least be honest and say what you're fighting for. I am strongly opposed to the extension of the sitting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u142	Colleagues, in essence, we have two procedural proposals. I will vote first on Mrs. Atanasova's procedural proposal, because if it is supported, it absorbs Mr. Chenchev's. So, please, a voting regime on Mrs. Atanasova's proposal to extend the time until the end of the item. 5. They voted 230 MPs: 112, against 71, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I'm putting it to the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u143	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u144	Mr. Chenchev, however, I want you to give me arguments from the stands why do we have to reschedule? Have you not been able to vote because the Rules indicate when you can reschedule if someone has failed?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u145	I can argue with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u146	Please, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u147	Mr. Chairman, can't I argue why I want a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u148	I gave you the floor, but I'm just telling you what the rules say.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u149	Because I want you to clearly see the second time the vote and IN, which today were very social, look at the dashboard and please re-vote. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u150	I want to tell you that this is no reason for a re-vote, but let's not make a scandal in this House, please, a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u151	I didn't get a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u152	We'll wait for you, Mr. Yordanov. They voted 231 MPs: 112, against 81, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Chenchev, which is essentially to extend the working time until the fourth point of the proposed programme is exhausted. They voted 229 MPs: 111, against 72, abstention 46. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor.]] Mr. Svilensky, procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u153	Mr. Chairman, thank you. My procedure is to re-vote, entirely in resonance with the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues from ICN, this is the hypocrisy you've shown four times that you don't want the Personal Aid Act to be seen. Four times, four votes! So, honourable Members, I urge you, indeed, to work a little tighter today...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u154	Mr. Svilensky, is that grounds for revoting?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u155	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I didn't get a vote, you can check it out. I didn't vote, so I want a re-vote to... [[Noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u156	Yeah, but you're putting other arguments out of the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u157	...to add my voice to the voice of those who want to see the Election Code and the Personal Aid Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u158	Okay. Let's wait for Mr. Svilensky to take his place so he can press the button. Please, re-election mode. They voted 230 MPs: 111, against 68, abstention 51. The offer has been rejected. Mr. Balabanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way you're led. Mr. Chairman, please pay attention and ban such a vile, populist statement by BSP MPs from the stands of the National Assembly, trying to suggest that, look, we are now stopping the Personal Aid Act. People have been watching the plenary session all day. Since morning the BSP were against the Personal Aid Act, and now their idea is not to examine the Personal Aid Act. Their idea is to return the paper ballot. Mr. Chairman, this is a newly formed coalition between BSP, DPS and GERB to return the paper ballots. That's the truth, and using the procedural catch in parliament... The Personal Aid Act, if this National Assembly has the will, may see it tomorrow. We saw their real faces this morning. There is no need to lie now through procedures and waste unnecessary parliamentary time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u160	Mr. Balabanov, thank you, too. Just for the record, I made a note to Mr. Svilensky. [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for procedure.]] Procedure for what? You're not happy with me leading? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, when procedures are used here by the IHN colleagues in the manner of conduct that are not real in the manner of conduct, make comments to them. It has clearly and categorically happened today on four occasions that IHN colleagues prefer the machine to personal help. They're so concerned only about the number of votes. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u162	They said it, Mr. Popov, so... [[Noise and lines from IHN.]] Thank you. Colleagues, I suggest we stop this discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u163	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u164	Here you go. You're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to be somewhat solidarity with what Mr. Zarkov said just now, and with his urging us not to think that people are stupider than us. If anyone watches today's meeting, they'll know that we haven't done any work here since 9:00 a.m. None at all! Besides the jokes and the pranks and some small curses at the beginning of the meeting, there's no work done here. We're looking at reports, we're reading. We are reading reports for 2020 and 2021. ▪ What the Ombudsman has done and what has been said in the committees. We read them slowly, pronouncing them so that the plenary session can end and not look at the Election Code at all and the way in which it will be voted. I, on behalf of the parliamentary group, say that we have no confidence in the engine vote, and we will not stop repeating it if you will, put it to the vote here, if you wish, do not put it. We will also put this question in the Forty-eightth National Assembly, which will be in just a few months. And we are not going to put it because we want to win the elections without dishonesty, because we also win them with machines, colleagues - 53% in Nova Zagora in the first round we have defeated the Coalition of.. Democratic Bulgaria......................... and BSP and the other Coalition IHN-PP... with machines, with Rashkov, with all your numbers we have captured you and defeated you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And we will do it in the parliamentary elections with machines, and most likely without Rashkov then it will be even more difficult for you. Thank you, by the way, Mr. Rashkov, that in Nova Zagora he managed to stop the Democratic Bulgaria and BSP from buying votes and thanks to this we won in the first round. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] But our problem is that you do not give at all, by the way, this is the second time we have put this item on the agenda for amendments to the Election Code, and this is the second time you do not allow it to be voted on by any procedural number. You in general have a majority. In general, you have a majority on this subject in Parliament and I find it very strange why you do not want this to be seen in plenary. In the end, it will almost certainly not pass because there is no support in this Parliament. But why don't you want to watch, hear the arguments regarding machines, about paper, about the electoral process?! We already have some experience of three parliamentary choices and one presidential with machines. We have certain results, we have a CEC report, we have certain doubts about machine voting and the way it's being conducted, and why don't you want to talk about it at all?! That's the weird part, not because you're in the engine room. Everyone has a right to a position as well as you. However, what we have to say to you, we are not at all afraid to tell you that the engine vote, as in all of Europe, should be here. For us this is not a shameful thesis, on the contrary we believe that Bulgaria should be like the other European peoples, as Vasil Levski says, so that we can vote as everyone else votes without exception. No exceptions! The only country in the European Union that votes with machines only 100% is Bulgaria. And that's not normal, because if it were normal, at least one more country would do it. And that's a question of debate. This debate isn't over as much as you'd like. It is not over because in Bulgaria there are hundreds, thousands of people who do not believe the machines that refuse to vote, and that is why we have registered the lowest electoral activity in the last 30 years. That's one of the reasons why I'm sure! And here Coalition BSP, GERB, DPS, I don't know what you want to do, whatever coalitions you want to form the issue is that elections are the most important thing in democracy. Democracy is for everyone! [[Noise and lines from.. We continue The Change.....................................................................................................]] I heard Mrs. Lena Borislavova, who said that paper was willing to vote underprivileged people. That's what he said! Well, colleagues, democracy is for everyone, Adam Mihnik said about both the underprivileged and the multi-emotional. It is not only for those who like you, and that is why we are asking this question. You may disagree with the vote of certain groups of people in society, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u166	Mr. Bikov, you're talking about an item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u167	I'm not talking, I'm talking about... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm making a statement on behalf of a group. I am talking about the electoral process, about the importance of the electoral process in a situation of liberal democracy. That's my subject, and I think it's not irrelevant. This matter must be discussed. It's not an undisputed subject for you. I know that you turned this matter into your political slogan, and that worked for you for a while, you had something to talk about. It's not that anymore. The theme is what you have done in the government, what is the result of this way of choice that passed and on the basis of which a ruling majority is formed here that governs. What's the result of this thing? What's gotten better? What happened to democracy with greater confidence, did parliament gain more confidence?! Well, no, I'll tell you no! And today's sociology says so. I'm sure none of you will dispute it, because it's somewhat in your favor. But the parliament also stands there with 8% confidence, clearly not the key to some positive change. We tell you that you are mistaken for thinking that you are getting relatively low results some of you because you are voting with machines and ballots. I've told you this before: neither machines vote nor ballots vote people. Have a little more trust if you want them to trust you. The elections are monitored by over 100,000 people from a variety of parties, including yours. Don't insult them by telling them they're falsifying protocols and making some sort of deal with election papers. And your people are involved there means they're in it too. The issue of engine voting, I argue, has caused much greater damage to trust in the electoral process than to generate. It is very typical. It serves the electoral administration wonderfully and does not serve the Bulgarian citizens. That's what you've been doing for seven months, by the way. You make it easy for yourself, but everyone else suffers because of it. To make it easy for the administration to be easy for you, and for those who need to be served by you and by the administration, you don't care. And that's why you don't trust them. That's why the government and the ruling majority are crashing on you. Today I thought that during your negotiations until recently you had a majority and did not have a programme. Now you have a program, and you don't have a majority. Well, when are these two things gonna meet? Your machines won't solve this problem, nor will the ballots. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We, and with that ending, we have no problem winning with machines, and we will because we work because we know what we're doing. We don't care how we go to elections. Our elections have started since the day of the previous elections, unlike you, and you will see how surprised you will be with Mr. Rashkov, God forbid! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u168	Mr. Bikov, no matter what, your declaration was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u169	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u170	It's not you. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, here I will not comment on the content of the declaration, and I do not have that right, but in disguise in the form of a declaration, do not give the right to a Member of Parliament, first of all, to make absolute slanderous accusations to parliamentary groups. And if these charges don't prove themselves, Mr. Bikov, as they should, you are marching now with evidence to the first police station, then you are a liar, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Chairman, so take action, first! Secondly, to speak to you from this tribune of people who have ruled Bulgaria, for honesty in elections, because of which the machine was introduced, and to tell you from there, and from a shopping party by Boyko Borisov MP. That's what hypocrisy is! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u172	Mr. Chenchev, let's stop with the...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u173	So do not allow such qualifications. Today, on that day, is not the first time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u174	Look, when we let one of them in, then we let the other one in. Mr. Zarkov, if you're mentioned by name, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u175	I want the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u176	Wait, Mrs. Atanasova, we'll find out what your procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, who mentioned me by name! I'm asking you all to calm down and really think about the situation. The electoral code adopted in 2014 has been proposed for amendment in the last eight years 67 times. These 67 times I didn't count them, you can enter the Open Parliament. One third of these changes are on the eve of the elections against any rules, and because the esteemed President of the Legal Commission Alexandrova apostroasted me, the machines were imported, inserted and defended by the Political Party GERB over the years, then started a tango two forwards, one backwards. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] And Mr. Bikov is solidarity with me, and I don't want to abuse people with him. Leave time to the rules to work so that people can quietly vote! It's the only thing that's required of you. Do not speculate with this topic and the fact itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u178	Mr. Zarkov, this is not a personal explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u179	My last personal explanation, excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I accept your note and I'll stop there. ... The very fact that you are so important and that you are creating the atmosphere in this Parliament just because of this question is sufficiently indicative of your unclean intentions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u180	Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and it concerns the fact that you interrupted our parliamentary group's declaration with a non-existent argument that it concerns a topic on the agenda of our plenary. Ten minutes before that, Mr President, the plenary rejected the proposal that this item be part of the agenda and our plenary sitting today will be dedicated only to the two reports of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Assuming this fellow who's waving a piece of paper [[People's representative Nastimir Ananiev shows the weekly programme]] There is some right, Mr. Chairman, it will demonstrate a double archin because Mr. Zarkov's personal explanation did not concern his name or insult, but commented on amendments to the Election Code. Finally, Mr. Zarkov, if you want to take a personal explanation again. This address to the people's representation was probably addressed to this part of the plenary. Do you not forget that BSP is an importer of the same and just now your parliamentary group has voted on a decision adopted at your party forum at the National Council, which you have not obviously agreed to?! That is, you are either blaming the decisions of the National Council or the authority that has not been clarified so far, Mr. Svilensky, exactly what is a question that was asked shortly before that. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u182	Mrs. Atanasova, I don't agree with what you said. Mr. Bikov's declaration on behalf of your parliamentary group was on the agenda and I just made a note. I still didn't take his word for it, did I?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u183	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u184	Mr. Zarkov, what's wrong with the way you conduct yourself?! [[Laughter]] This is gonna be a stunt right here, and we're gonna tell each other about it for three hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, I guarantee you, it won't be a stunt. I want to say that I take responsibility and I apologize for having abused the procedure for personal explanation, so my procedure in the manner of conduct is to accept this apology of mine. Regarding how BSP operates, unfortunately, there is no time to explain to people from a single party how it functions collectively. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u186	Mr. Petrov, do you still want to hear the word "Mr. Petrov" from Resurrection? [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Petar Petrov.]] He had asked for it before. [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Petar Petrov.]] Yes, Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u187	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Because until a little while ago, it was abusing the conduct procedures and colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party were moralizing on a bill submitted by BSP and on some mythical 22 bills that should be adopted by this National Assembly, which have been a fundamental point of reference for a month. I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman. Do you know what these 22 bills are? Can either you or any of the people sitting behind me tell us who these 22 bills are, have they been put into the National Assembly? And above all, is the Ombudsman's report for 2020 and 2021 part of these 22 bills, which are extremely important, in your opinion? And have we been working on these mythical bills for nearly five hours today, or have we just wasted the National Assembly's time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u188	Mr. Gazhev, I took an exam 40 years ago at Law School. [[Reply from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev: "Demek you do not know. "]] You will read today the program of the future government, there are recorded. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Proclaims: "Eee! " - Revival. (Laughter)]] Yeah, I saw them there. [[Private applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u189	Just a lyrical deviation. I suppose you can understand why it's a pleasure to attend internal committee meetings. I mean it in the most positive sense. In the last month, many of these have been turned around in society regarding the position of rebirth, the cashier's electoral rules and the electoral process. Over the past month, a lot of these have been turning around and trying to...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u190	Mr. Petrov, this is a statement, a statement, what is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u191	I'm making a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u192	Oh, I'm sorry. A declaration on behalf of a group?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u193	Declaration yes, Mr. Chairman. A lot of these were expressed, the cashier's position of rebirth, and what is the position of the parliamentary group of a party AGE on the electoral rules............... is for or against paper ballots..................................................................... We have consistently stated many times that the position of rebirth is against the return of the paper vote. This does not rest on our stitching to one coalition or another and does not rest on any ideological performances. This rests on simple facts. I would like to state that, before the series of parliamentary elections that took place in 2021, the previous parliamentary elections held in 2017, the political party AGE was second as a percentage ratio by number of invalid ballots. I repeat, second as a percentage ratio by number of invalid ballots. These were elections that took place with a paper vote. First of all, with 3% or just over 3%, it was a party CED then, a party AGE was 2.65 per cent invalid ballots, notice, with an average percentage of invalid paper ballots for all 29 other political entities participating in the elections, average between a percentage and a percentage and a half. Strangely, then, why did the party of rebirth have 1% above invalid ballots and was second on this indicator?! Not only in these parliamentary elections, but in all those associated with them, elections in recent years, the previous administration of the CEC made all sorts of acrobatics and equilibristics so as not to show the number of invalid ballots for each political party by districts and individually by candidates. That's why there's only one reason, and that's because the election process was manipulated by the number of invalid ballots. Anyone who has been chairman of a sectary election commission knows how this process is done, namely, when the number does not come when counting so-called paper ballots and must match this number with the original documents given to the sectary election commission, then what is done. Of course, they get darkened, figuratively speaking, by taking ballots, regular, from smaller parties, marked with comma, amazing and so on, becoming invalid. And there you go, and the final number is the protocol is drawn up, correct and the only loser is the smaller parties. That's how you faked a paper ballot election until the engine vote came in. The machine voting problem solved it.. solves the problem with the invalid paper ballots. Thus, the citizens' vote became an idea more transparent and clearer. But I would also like to point out from this tribune that an aging party is not uncritical of machine voting. Let me remind these parties, who want the paper vote back, that at the beginning of the forty-seventh National Assembly, it was a party that brought about a proposal to establish a temporary committee to examine the results of the machine vote held in the last parliamentary elections, to check it and to come out with an opinion, was it lawful, were there forgeries or not? And it is those parties that now want the paper ballot back and are obviously against only machine voting that voted against the establishment of this temporary committee. I would like to say this most responsiblely and remind them that they voted against the establishment of this committee, which could identify whether there was a problem with this machine vote. It is precisely because a party is not critical of the machine voting, I declare from this tribune that we will urgently bring legislative changes to the Election Code in two guidelines which will allow the census, mandatory, of paper cuttings and their comparison with the results of the protocol. Accordingly, in case of any differences found, the number of hand-counted paper clippings from the machines should be considered relevant to prevent further errors. Only one week after the elections, if memory serves, on 21 November 2021, the Supreme Administrative Court issued a decision declaring the previous decision of the CEC to count paper scraps illegal, motivating that it was not written in the Law. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now allow this to be recorded in the Election Code and thus to carry out a re-check even of the machine voting because it is possible that technical errors in the machines and the protocol do not really reflect the allocation of votes. Next, we will propose, in urgent order, a legislative change that will allow continuous video surveillance on the election day of the selection committees, including when counting the cuts, to avoid any possibility of manipulation and for the help of voters. Only that day, I personally saw in the partial local elections, in a report from one of the national television stations, on the central news, how the voter casts a vote on the machine, and next to it the chairman of the sectary election committee stands next to him and tells him how to fix the machine and how to vote. Such a thing should not be allowed. The only way to prevent this from happening is only if we introduce video surveillance into the sectary election commission. And we, from the ARRANGEMENT, will propose this legislative proposal in the Election Code, again, in the most urgent order, so that we can in the near parliamentary elections make it so that the electoral process, first of all, is much more transparent and, next of all, reflects much more adequately the attitudes of society, and we of AGE do not accept excuses that people could not navigate to vote with the machine, so they wanted to prefer paper vote. We believe that such excuses are thrown into the public domain by certain political entities only to ensure the possibility of controlling the electoral process. Let us not forget that we are already in the 21st century and should use the achievements of modern technology, even more so when real results are already in place, that machine voting at least eliminates the problem of the invalid vote for which I have already set an example. Therefore, honourable Members, please take this really seriously to the forthcoming legislative changes that should be addressed. Let us all try together to make sure that the next elections, regardless of when they will be, be a watershed between the previous attempts to buy and control the election vote and really free and democratic elections, which gradually, choice after choice, restore the trust of the Bulgarian citizen in the elections as such. Because statistics show that turnout is constantly decreasing and it does not decrease because people cannot handle the machine and do not trust the machine, and turnout decreases only and only because people do not believe that elections change something. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u194	Mr. Petrov, we as lawyers, shouldn't we be following the rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u196	Didn't your statement have anything to do with the agenda?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u197	I tried not to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u198	I wasn't comfortable after... In practice Mr. Bikov provided you with this declaration, but this was also not by the rules, sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u199	Mr. Chairman, I apologize most sincerely if my statement had anything to do with the agenda. That wasn't my goal. I have tried to address processes that are multi-annual and not that form part of the agenda of today's plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u200	I guess you're good at your lawyering, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u201	Thanks for the confession.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u202	Now, we still have to move on the agenda. Mr. Stefanov, you are welcome to read the Report of the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens, and there is a draft decision to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. At a regular meeting held on 7 April 2022, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens discussed a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. The meeting was attended by Dr. Diana Kovacheva, professor of the Republic of Bulgaria, and representatives of NGOs. Prof. Kovacheva presented the Ombudsman's Activity Report in 2021. She stressed that the overall trend of complaints to the Ombudsman continued in 2021. During the accounting year, nearly 65 thousand citizens addressed the Ombudsman with various complaints, complaints, seeking advice, assistance and support. The number of written complaints with requests for specific checks and the number of petitions for group problems, pensions, water quality, increased price and the link between quality and electricity supply and others has also increased. It has been pointed out that in 2021, compared to 2020, complaints to public authorities and their administrations have been reduced, but by nearly 10% the complaints against public service providers, VIC, thermal efficiency, electricity supply and electricity distribution companies, collector companies, private judicial contractors, banks, fast credit companies, etc. have been increased. According to Professor Kovacheva, the reduction of complaints against the state authorities is conditional because they actually have an obligation to exercise control over the individuals described above. In 2021, the number of complaints and complaints by public service users is the largest... about 30% of the total number of complaints. In comparison with 2020 in 2021, first among consumers' complaints are electricity-related complaints. The increase and fear of increasing the price of electricity are among the leading problems, but traditional complaints continue the lack of effective mechanism for compensation for poor quality of the supplied electricity and the burning of electrical appliances. The Ombudsman pointed out the need for a legislative settlement of the concept of energy poverty in order to clarify the circle of persons to be compensated. Prof. Kovacheva informed the MPs that due to the sharp rise in the price of natural gas two recommendations have been sent to the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Energy in relation to the compensation of citizens who are heated only to gas and the uneven treatment of missed domestic consumers of natural gas. Another problem that is expected to be resolved is the suspension of the payment of industrial electricity by some categories of domestic consumers. Citizens' complaints against mobile operators are related to insufficient or misleading information when concluding contracts with accrued amounts for unsolicited services. As achievements of the institution are indicated: recognition of a green certificate for people with antibodies who have suffered from COVID-19, the upcoming removal of vehicle ecotikers, the change of methodology for technical examinations. The Ombudsman informed the MPs that a proposal for a legislative settlement of citizens' problems with faulty wine stickers was tabled and expressed his hope that he would receive support from the MPs. The chairman of the committee, Professor Andrey Chorbanov, expressed his satisfaction with the amount of work done by the institution and asked questions related to the Ombudsman's legislative proposals and practice in the exercise of the indirect legislative initiative, with statistics, about the satisfied complaints of citizens or the measures taken in this regard. People's representative Angel Georgiev asked whether the Ombudsman's recommendation, expressed in the Report, that before taking action to force the removal of illegally built homes, citizens should be informed in an accessible way within a reasonable time frame, as well as to provide them with alternative accommodation, concerns only the Roma community or applies to all citizens who have illegal buildings. Prof. Kovacheva answered the questions in full. Regarding the implementation of the Ombudsman's indirect legislative initiative, she said that she had sent specific legislative proposals to the President of the National Assembly and to committee chairmen and expressed her hope that they would be recognized by MPs. As an example of good practice, he pointed out the adopted legislative proposal for the non-secessibility of the amount of 60 leva allocated to pensioners. Regarding the statistics on complaints and mechanisms for their satisfaction, Professor Kovacheva said that out of 2,800 recommendations she sent over the past year, half of them were satisfied. This is the same as the statistics over the years - about 50% of the recommendations, common or individual, have been adopted by the institutions. Regarding the recommendation concerning the abolition of illegal buildings, Prof. Kovacheva noted that it was given in the special part of the Report on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. This is the case of the case of the case of Yordanova against Bulgaria, a pilot decision of 2012 issued on a complaint of Roma people and related to the evictions of Roma homes, in which Bulgaria is sentenced to pay compensation. The motives of the European Court of Human Rights are that the state has been idle for 30 years and has allowed these illegal buildings. However, the problem lies in the fact that in their sudden demolition or if it turns out that the building is dangerous to live, vulnerable groups of young children, sick people, elderly people, people with disabilities remain on the street. The recommendation and requirement of the European Court of Human Rights is to assess the proportionality of the measures taken, which should be done not only by the administrative court but also by the local authorities and all the citizens concerned, to be able to benefit from it. In this regard, the Ombudsman considers that a legislative change is needed in order to implement the decision. Following the vote, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens, with 10 votes in favour and 1 vote in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 47-239-02-10, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 March 2022. Colleagues, the Commission also proposes a draft decision that I will now read to you: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Stefanov. Colleagues, is there a report that hasn't been submitted? No. I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Arabadzhiev, come on in. I think there's an opportunity for just one speech. There's a lot of people out there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs. Kovacheva! I would like to mark some of your speech that you had at the beginning in relation to the old pensions, as you have received a lot of signals. You introduced us when you presented your report to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. What I really have to say is that from 1 October this is a fact of 1 October pensions will be recalculated from current social security income by 2021 and the rules under which they will be made are the internship rate for one year will be at the date of the pension award. Indeed, pensioners will receive this recalculation, which they should have received over the years on the basis of total social security income, and at least in terms of income there will be no difference in pensions. There will already be a difference in terms of the internship rate when a person retires and under what conditions, but the older pensioners have retired in less need of service as a number of years. From there comes partly lower pensions for longer, because then the requirement for years of service was less, retired earlier and received respectively pensions longer. Therefore, the substitution rate is lower. The other thing I would like to comment on is on people with disabilities. You've been alerting us from the very beginning to the signals about the problem that occurred when the epidemic situation was dropped, and thank you. You have seen that last week we have received one unification in the whole of the Chamber and with our colleagues from GERB, from the DPS, we have been able to accept a change in which we can introduce a mechanism for really those who, in recent months after the fall of the epidemic situation, have lost some of the rights, to be able to recover, but indeed a mechanism that gives guarantees only to those who applied until 15 July, to continue them until the end of the year, and there are individuals who during the epidemic situation for the last two years have lost their reason, but because of this official continuation have continued to benefit from part of the acquisitions. In fact, these individuals, if we had not introduced this mechanism for express application, would have continued further. So thank you for the adequate and correct submission of the information to find a mechanism for this thing to happen. Indeed, your reports are quite thorough and I call on my colleagues to find time for their examination, they include absolutely all areas of public life, and many legislative initiatives can follow in the marked problems that are mentioned in your reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-06.u206	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Mrs. Kovacheva, thank you for being here today. Indeed, your reports and your summary have put many important topics before us as MPs and the Bulgarian public. Unfortunately, due to procedural issues that have been imposed today and have happened, we have not been able to enter into a nice and in-depth discussion. I hope we can do this next week. Colleagues, due to the running out of time, I am closing today's plenary session. The next regular one will take place tomorrow, 7 July 2022, at 9.00 on the already adopted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
