ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u1	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please register. 174 registered. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period 8 June 2022 is as follows: "1." First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of intra-Community trade in goods. 3. A bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms. 5. Draft decisions on changes in the compositions of Standing Committees. Importer "Khalil Letifov." 6. Draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission for the Verification of the Circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz "EAD." 7. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act. One with contributors "Mustafa Karadayi" and a group of MPs, and the other is from Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the termination of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on the mutual promotion and protection of investments signed on 22 January 1997 in Sofia. 9. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Agreements to Prevent Tax Base shrinking and the Transfer of Profits. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of an amendment to the Law on the ratification of the European Social Charter (revised). 12. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. 13. The first vote of the Bulgarian Language Bill is a continuation. 14. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please, voting mode. They voted 215 MPs: 135 against 47, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals under art. 47, para. 3. The proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Anastasov is to be included as a point in the Programme. The draft decision for the establishment of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning gas pipelines for the transport of natural gas from the Russian Federation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Tsonev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to tell my fellow Members in this House what I have shared with you at the Conference of Presidents that it would be appropriate to propose under para. 3 which have been adopted by the House, i.e. the House has already spoken, it is appropriate to look at them but have not reached this item on the agenda for the week and have dropped out for this reason. Logically put them on the agenda for next week, because the House has already spoken about the need to look at them. In this regard, since this proposal was adopted last week, but we did not get to it, I ask you now to support it again, and I ask you to take this practice again because it expresses the will of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev, for your recommendation. Colleagues, voting regime. Vote 217 MPs: 201, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. The next proposal which has been made in the order of art. 47, para. 3, is from the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT, and it is as a point in the program for the week, to include the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Seal and the National Flag of the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues' proposal is that the point be fourth in the Programme for the week. We are voting on the proposal of AGE. Vote 172 MPs: 37 against 42, abstention 93. The offer is not accepted. Before we go to t. 1 of the program, just to read some messages. On the basis of art. 81 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are withdrawn from the Law on Use, Cultivation and Trade in Truffles tabled by the Members of the Revival Bill. On 7 June 2022, the National Assembly received a request from Mrs. Daniela Masheva as Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria under Order, No RD-05-20-88, of 3 June 2022 to the Prosecutor General for permission to continue the criminal proceedings against the National Representative Georgi Georgiev Mihaylov in pre-trial proceedings No 254/2018 according to the description of the National Investigation Service, Prosecutor's Office No 18499/2018 on the description of the SGP for crimes under art. 219, para. 4 in connection with para. 1 of the NK and under art. 255, para. 1 proposal 1st and 2nd, t. 2, Proposed 2 in connection with art. 26, para. 1 of the NK. By letter dated 7 June 2022, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Assembly of the request and the opportunity to familiarise himself with the attached materials. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of two planes with crew members of the Korean Air Force. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the country's transition to defence. On the issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's permission to fly the airspace should be granted to the State concerned after a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft from the Republic of Bulgaria to the Hellenic Republic and back with crew of the military members of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notifications were received on 6 and 7 June 2022, with an IC. No 47-203-09-58, and No 47-203-09-59, and provided to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Central Election Commission on the organisation and production of elections in 2021. By a resolution of the President of the National Assembly the report was submitted to the MPs and parliamentary groups. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. On 3 June 2022, the Court of Auditors provided the National Assembly with the information sent in May 2022 to the audited sites with final audit reports on the financial audits carried out. By resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Audit reports on financial audits carried out have been published on the Court of Auditors' website. On June 6, 2022, the National Assembly was provided with a draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic of: "Employment migration in Bulgaria" "Requirements and Trends." By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was submitted to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Human Rights, Religions and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I shall make a procedural proposal on the item included on the agenda in accordance with art. 47, para. 3, proposed by Mr. Anastasov to set up a Temporary Commission to be a t. 1 at tomorrow's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u5	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Karadaye's suggestion is that the point be fixed as first for Thursday. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. They voted 213 MPs: for 101, against 15, abstention 97. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. They voted 210 MPs: 115 against 7, abstention 88. The motion is accepted. The point is fixed as the first for tomorrow. Moving on to point one: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PAID SERVICES AND PAID SYSTEM. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber to the representatives: of the Bulgarian National Bank: Nina Stoyanova Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u7	Thank you. We are voting for Mrs. Stoyanova, Mrs. Velkova and Mrs. Koleva. They voted 153 MPs: for 152, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 47-202-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022. At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Ivaylo Yaydzhiev (Deputy Minister of Finance) and Diana Gancheva (Department of the Directorate of Payment Supervision) in the Bulgarian National Bank. The bill was presented by Mr. Yaydzhiev. The changes made with the proposed bill in the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems relate to three directions, namely: 1. The introduction of implementing measures for the entry into force of Regulation (EU) 2021/168 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 February 2021 amending Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 as regards the exclusion of certain spot foreign exchange benchmarks from third countries and the replacement of certain benchmarks whose production is being terminated and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. One of the main changes to the so-called benchmarks Regulation is the introduction of the possibility of a regulatoryly established replacement of a benchmark applicable only to contracts for financial instruments which do not contain alternative provisions or appropriate alternative provisions. The designation of BNB as a competent authority to carry out the assessment concerning the possible inability of an alternative provision to replace a benchmark used with another in relation to interest rate benchmarks will ensure legal certainty as there will be a specific institution to which the parties to a credit agreement will turn if necessary. 2. Filling in gaps in the regulations relating to the regulation of terms and conditions for the conversion of a payment institution and an electronic money company. This will have a positive effect on the development of business relations in the payment services sector, leading to an improvement in the quality of services provided, including by providing financial resources with a view to introducing sustainable business models. 3. The settlement of transfers orders in levs based on the SEPA credit transfer scheme of the European Payment Board. The bill shall regulate the settlement of such transfer orders by analogy of settlement of immediate payments. In this way, the execution of customer payments in leva will be accelerated, with the time needed to complete the transfer and receive the funds at the recipient's account being reduced to less than an hour. A vote was held on the bill, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 47-202-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. There has also been a report from the European Union Committee on Affairs. Here you go. Denitsa Simeonova will introduce us to the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u10	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 47-202-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022. At its regular meeting held on 24 March 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 47-202-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Yaydzhiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Ministry of Finance attended the meeting Ms. Rositsa Petkova, Head of Department at the Directorate of Financial Markets and Mrs. Snezhanka Koleva, State Expert in the same Directorate. The meeting was attended by the deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, head of the branch of the Bank, Ms. Nina Stoyanova. The amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems are drawn up in relation to the need for measures to be laid down in the Bulgarian legislation to implement Regulation (EU) 2021/168 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 February 2021 amending Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 as regards the exclusion of certain spot currency benchmarks from third countries and the replacement of certain benchmarks whose production is in the process of termination and in order to fill in some gaps in the regulations relating to the regulation of the terms and conditions for the conversion of a payment institution and an electronic money company and the settlement of orders for transfers into levs based on the SEPA schemes of the European Payment Board. The newly adopted Regulation allows for a regulatoryly established replacement of a benchmark applicable only to contracts for financial instruments which do not contain alternative provisions or appropriate alternative provisions. The replacement of a benchmark shall be carried out by a competent authority of the Member State where the benchmark is notified by one or more potentially interested parties of the potential inability of an alternative provision used in contracts and financial instruments to replace the benchmark used with another. The amendments to the Law on such a competent authority define BNB as required by the newly adopted regulation. The bill provides for a change in the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, which regulates the possibility for the authorisation to carry out an activity as a payment institution, respectively, as an electronic money company, to be subject to jurisdiction. This legislation does not allow this. This type of ban is not laid down in European legislation. Changes in this part of the Law are motivated by the need to respond to the development of economic and business relations in the payment services sector. The Bill regulates the implementation of a current project of banks in the country and the payment system operator serving client transfers intended for execution at a certain point (BISERA6), for the migration of ongoing client transfers to payments in levs similar to the SEPA credit transfer scheme of the European Payment Board. For settlement of these orders, the provisions of the Law on settlement of immediate payments in levs will apply. This will speed up the execution of client payments in leva, reducing it to less than an hour. The proposal will not lead to an impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the European Union Committee proposed by 10 votes for the European Parliament and 1 abstention of the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 47-202-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. I am opening a discussion on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 47-202-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2022. The first vote. Vote 127 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Do you have a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u12	Mr President, given that there were no proposals, I propose that the bill be voted on at second reading today in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u13	Thank you. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Ananiev's procedural proposal to proceed to a second vote on the bill within the same sitting. Vote 127 MPs: 114, against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to a second vote on the Bill. From the Committee on Budget and Finance, who will present the texts for the second vote? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 2 commas and the words as well as to be subject to the administration shall be deleted. § 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 16a: "Translation" Art. 16a. (1) Conversion of a payment institution by infusion and merger shall be permitted only with another payment institution or electronic money company. In the event of an infusion, the right to carry out activities for which the receiving company is not authorised does not pass on to it. A merger permit shall be granted only if the newly established company receives a licence corresponding to the type of services it will perform. (2) In the case of conversion of a payment institution by separation of recipients, the newly established companies respectively shall hold or obtain a licence for the relevant activities which they intend to carry out and for which a licence is required. (3) In the case of conversion of a payment institution by dividing the receiving companies, the newly established companies respectively, must hold or obtain a licence for the relevant activities which they intend to carry out and for which a licence is required. (4) Conversion of a payment institution by a change in the legal form shall be permitted only within the authorised types of commercial companies as required for the issue of a licence. (5) A payment institution may be converted in accordance with para. 1 After obtaining prior permission from BNB, given under conditions and in order determined by a BNB regulation. (6) When the conversion of a payment institution by the order of para. The application for a licence for a payment service provider is considered at the same time as the application for a conversion authorisation. (7) Inflation of a payment institution into a bank shall be carried out in accordance with the Credit Institutions Act. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 the word "supposed' is deleted; § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 2 the following additions are made: 1. A comma shall be placed after the words 2. A sentence second shall be inserted: Inflammation of an e-money company in a bank is carried out in accordance with the Credit Institutions Act. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 6 all over the words. 9, para. 1 and 2' are replaced § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: settlement with pre-insured funds on a special account 2. The creation of para. 9. For settlement of transfer orders in levs based on SEPA schemes of the European Payment Board, respectively para. 1... 8............................................................... § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167, para. 2 the words "Regulation (EC) No 924/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on cross-border payments within the Community and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2560/2001 (OJ L266/11 of 9 October 2009) , hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EC) No 92 is replaced by the "Regulation (EU) 2021/1230 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 July 2021 on cross-border payments within the Union' (OJ L274/20 of 30 July 2021). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2021/1230'. § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175, para. 1 the words "Regulation (EC) No 92 is replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2021/1230'. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 183, para. 1 after the words................................................................................................ 23b, paragraph 7 and (b) and (c) are added and finally added to carry out the assessment under art. 23b (5) point (d) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 as regards interest rate benchmarks used by the same entities. § 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186 in the title and in para. 1 the words "Regulation (EC) No 92 is replaced by "Regulation (EU) 2021/1230'; "Thank you very much.'
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I am opening a discussion on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1 - 10 as presented by Mr. Karimanski. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to a vote in full the name of the bill and paragraphs 1.. 10 by importer. Vote 131 MPs: 118, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. With this we have exhausted this point in the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE INTERNAL COMMONITY TRADE WITH GOODS. A report came in from the Budget and Finance Committee. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u16	Please, on the basis of art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the following persons: Mr. Sergey Tsvetarski, Chairman of the National Statistical Institute, and Mrs. Diana Yancheva, Vice-President of the National Statistical Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I put to the vote Mr. Tsvetarski and Mrs. Yancheva's motion for admission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Tsvetarski and Mrs. Yancheva to the hall. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics on intra-Community trade in goods, No 47-202-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. At a meeting held on 2 June 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by the representatives of: the Council of Ministers: Emilia Alexandrova, State Expert at the Directorate of the Administration Modernization and the National Statistical Institute, Mr. Sergey Tsvetarski, and Mr. Diana Yancheva Vice-President; the National Revenue Agency, Mrs. Nevena Georgieva, Director of the Directorate of Intrastat and Mrs. Kolio Kolev, Director of the Directorate of Information Systems and Analytical Activity and Mrs. Irena Borisova, Consultant, legal expert of freelance. The statistical activity of intra-Union trade in goods at national level is regulated in the Act on Statistics of intra-Community trade in goods. The proposed draft aims to establish the legal basis for implementing Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on European business statistics and repealing 10 business statistics legal acts (Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2020/1197 of 30 July 2020 laying down technical specifications and rules pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 2019/2152 in force from 1 January 2021. Member States are required, pursuant to the Regulations, to provide monthly statistical information on intra-Union trade in goods to the Directorate-General for Trade to the European Commission and its database COMEXT, to the International Monetary Fund and to the UN COMTRADE database. Texts are being refined by the bill now in force in accordance with those regulations, namely: 1. A new source of data for the collection of statistical data within the European Union is created with regard to the exchange of data on intra-Union exports and intra-Union imports of goods between the Member States of the European Union through the system "Intrastat" and the competent authority for Bulgaria is the National Statistical Institute. 2. An obligation is established for the National Statistical Institute to exchange statistics on a monthly basis. 1 with the Member States through the "Intrastat" and submit them to the European Commission. 3. Under the Law annual import and export thresholds are set, over which all companies are obliged to submit Intrastat declarations to the National Revenue Agency. For 2022, by order of the President of the National Statistical Institute, higher reporting thresholds have been set, leading to a reduction in the administrative burden for the business, as the number of companies required to submit declarations to the National Statistical Institute is reduced. 4. The National Statistical Institute will carry out assessments and control of the trade of companies registered under VAT which are below the specified thresholds or which have not submitted Intrastat declarations or have incomplete declarations. 5. A possibility is created to declare new data or make adjustments in already declared data for the entire previous year in cases of new circumstances in the turnover of companies. So far, companies can only adjust in six months. 6. The terms used in the Act for statistics on intra-Community trade in goods shall be aligned with those used in the regulations, such as the internal and intra-Union regulations, as well as the references to the new regulations. The new concepts and the reference to amended provisions of the Act on Statistics of intra-Community trade in goods also require amendments to the Act on Obligations to the International Fund for Compensation for Damages caused by Oil Pollution. The benefits for the country's economy of declaring statistics on the movement of goods in the Union relate to the data for the calculation of the country's gross domestic product and balance of payments, the calculation of the total imports and exports of Bulgaria, the production of economic and commercial analyses, the conduct of marketing research and the production of statistics on trade by business characteristics of enterprises. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The assessment of the expected consequences of the implementation of the future law is linked to the effective use of the additional administrative source of data generated.. exchange of micro data on intra-Union exports of goods, reduce asymmetry in mirror flows and provide consistency data to consumers, increase the quality and control of the reliability of data on intra-Union trade in goods and create clear regulations. The adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of intra-Community trade in goods does not require additional budget funding. All costs of its implementation will be within the budgets of the competent authorities for carrying out statistical activity for intra-Community trade in goods. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 13 votes for the debate, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of intra-Community trade in goods, No 47-202-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening a discussion on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. Honourable Members, I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Statistics of the Internal Community Trade in Goods, No 47-202-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022. The first vote of the Bill. Voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: for.. 113, against none, abstentioned. 9. The motion is accepted. We've run out of that point in the program. Moving on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR A EUROPEAN COMPANY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN COSMICAL AGENCY. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation has come in. There is then also a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on European Union Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for the Report of the Leading Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, signed on 15 February 2022 in the city of Toulouse, France, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its meeting held on 25 May 2022, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, signed on 15 February 2022 in Toulouse, France. The bill was presented by Karina Angelievna (Deputy Minister for Innovation and Growth). The Agreement continues Bulgaria's existing cooperation with the European Space Agency. Ratification means further access of Bulgarian companies including small and medium-sized enterprises, academic and research organisations, including universities, to opportunities for participation in projects priority for the Agency. In particular, the following specific areas fall within this scope: - Space science - Space astronomy and astrophysics, exploration of the solar system and solar-earth physics; - Research and applications for Earth observation - Environmental monitoring, meteorology, aerodynamics and geodesy; - Telecommunications shows of services and satellite navigation; - Microgravity studies.. space biology and medicine; - Engineering and recovery of the ground segment. A year before the expiry of the Agreement, the results of its implementation will be reviewed, on the basis of which Bulgaria would also be able to become an associated member of the European Space Agency before the full five-year period expires. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Innovation, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, signed on 15 February 2022 in the city of Toulouse, France, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Sabrutev, to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At a meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Innovation and Growth: Karina Angelievna The bill was presented by Mrs. Karina Angelievna (Deputy Minister for Innovation and Growth). The Agreement on a European Cooperation State was signed between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency on 8 April 2015 and entered into force on 4 February 2016. 87 Bulgarian companies and scientific organizations for participation in the tender procedures were registered for this period. 7 tender procedures have been carried out from which 127 project proposals have been submitted and 37 projects have been approved for implementation. There are 5 projects under negotiation from the seventh tender procedure. The agreement continues the joint work with the European Space Agency for the Development of the Competitiveness of Bulgarian Enterprises in the Space Sector, as well as the development of scientific potential, and will expand the activities and commitments of the countries. During the implementation period, an interim review of the success rate will be carried out, on the basis of which Bulgaria will be able to switch to associated membership before the five-year period of the programme if the participation of the companies and the implementation of the projects have reached the required level of development. The instrument of ratification allows Bulgarian companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises and academic and research organisations, including higher schools, to participate in projects on the implementation of space-related activities, which will extend the boundaries of space-related scientific knowledge and research activities in support of innovation, competitiveness and economic growth. The implementation of the Agreement is linked to a financial commitment for Bulgaria, which currently amounts to BGN 2 689 300. Annually, which are to finance Bulgarian projects in the tender procedures of the European Space Agency for Bulgaria. The costs of implementing the Agreement shall be borne by the approved budget of the Ministry of Innovation and Growth for the relevant year. Once ratified, this Agreement will enter into force from the date of signature of the Charter of the European Cooperation Plan scheduled for 14 June 2022. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, the decree on its implementation and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly should ratify the Agreement by law. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held, which received the following results: 16 votes for............................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Sabrutev. The report of the Committee on Education and Science follows. Here you are, Professor Chorbanov. I'll give you the report, if you don't have it on hand, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your cooperation. Several reports need to be read today. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, 47 202 02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its regular meeting held on 25 May 2022, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At the meeting of the Commission attended: from the Ministry of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov, Minister of Education and Science; from the Ministry of Innovation and Growth Mrs. Maria Todorova, Director of the Directorate of Politics and Analyses, and Mrs. Svetoslava Vangelova, Chief Expert in the same Directorate. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mrs. Maria Todorova. She pointed out that this was not the first agreement Bulgaria concluded. This was concluded in 2015 and ratified by the 43rd National Assembly. The prospect is that in the next five years Bulgaria, if it fulfils the conditions, will become an associated member, and the ultimate goal is to become a full member. Mrs. Todorova outlined the advantages of Bulgaria's participation in the Agreement. It is open to companies and research organizations that participate in selection procedures under a target programme, open specifically to Bulgarian companies and research organizations, and also to individuals in the youth programme of the European Space Agency, open to magistrates, scholarships, exchange of experts. Participations in projects and experiments are financed to modernise the material and technical base and equipment, to support small and medium-sized enterprises, to use data. The projects are for space research, astronomy, astrophysics, earth observation studies for practical purposes, such as environmental protection, meteorology, geodesy, telecommunication, micronavigation, medicine, education and awareness. With the adoption of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, the ECA will confirm the desire expressed by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement a pro-active high-tech policy and to strengthen cooperation with the European Space Agency, which will contribute to progressive development and implementation of the common European space policy and to explore and absorb space exclusively for peaceful purposes. The agreement continues the joint work with the European Space Agency for the Development of the Competitiveness of Bulgarian Enterprises in the Space Sector, as well as the development of scientific potential, including higher schools, in support of innovation, competitiveness and economic growth. 37 projects have been approved in the last few years. As an example, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' project for a dosimeter of a space radiation device that is already operating in orbit has been outlined. The discussion included the People's Representative Krasimir Valchev, who asked whether an assessment of the financial effects of the previous agreement was carried out and what is the return of the membership imports from the Republic of Bulgaria. Mrs. Todorova made a brief analysis of the tender procedures of approved and implemented projects and pointed out the financial dimensions. The funds not used for projects for the relevant year shall not be lost but may be used in subsequent years. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Education and Science with 17 votes for abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u25	Thank you, Professor. Here you are, Mrs. Simeonova, for the Report of the Commission on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u26	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. At its regular meeting held on 26 May 2022, the Commission on European Union Affairs examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. The draft was presented by Ms. Karina Angelievka. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Petya Piperkova, Chief Expert at the Department of Politics and Analytics at the Ministry of Innovation and Growth. The current bill aims to strengthen the desire expressed by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement a proactive high-tech policy and to strengthen cooperation with the European Space Agency (ECA), which will contribute to the progressive development and implementation of the common European space policy and to explore and absorb space exclusively for peaceful purposes. The aim of the Agreement is to continue working together with ESA to develop the competitiveness of Bulgarian enterprises in the space sector, as well as to develop the scientific potential by expanding the activities and commitments of the parties. The instrument of ratification allows Bulgarian companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and academic and research organisations, including higher schools, to participate in projects on the implementation of space-related activities, which will extend the boundaries of space-related scientific knowledge and research activities in support of innovation, competitiveness and economic growth. Upon acceptance of the ratification, the Republic of Bulgaria will acquire the status of a co-operative country, thus opening up opportunities for active cooperation policy with the other countries, members of the European Space Agency, which will ensure that the activities in the field of space are carried out in a broader political, economic, environmental and social framework, directly in the service of the citizens and businesses of the European Union and its partners. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the European Union Committee proposed by 11 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. We've run out of committee reports. That is why I am opening the discussion on the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022. The first vote. They voted 124 MPs: 115, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's a procedural proposal. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a proposal for a bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, No 47-202-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2022, to be adopted on a second vote, as no proposals for amendment and supplement have been made during the discussion of the Draft.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Martin Dimitrov's procedural proposal to proceed to the review of the bill at second reading. They voted 121 MPs: 106, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We proceed to the second vote of the Bill. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u30	Project! LAW ratifying the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency A single member. It ratifies the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency, signed on 15 February 2022 in the city of Toulouse, France. The law was adopted by the 47th National Assembly on 8 June 2022 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I open the discussion on the name of the Bill and the only article contained in it. Is there anyone who wants to speak? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Bill and the article alone and we vote anbloc. They voted 123 MPs: 113, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point four: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR GENETICALLY MODIFICIATED ORGANIZMS. A report came in from the Environment and Water Commission. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u32	On 18 May 2022 the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a draft amending and supplementing the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, No 47-202-01-21, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 27 April 2022, adopted on the first vote of 18 May 2022. "Renewal and Supplement to the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 67 the 1. In para. 1, t. 1 the words "unique code' are replaced by "single identifier'. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: . (2) One identifier under para. 1, t. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 22 the words "Unique code' are replaced by "Unique identifier'; (b) To be created t. 43: It's 43. spermatophytae (Gymnospermae and Angiospermae) plants are plants of the taxonomic group Spermatophytae (Gymnospermae and 2. Paragraph 4a is amended as follows: .................................................................................. This law introduces requirements for Directive 2009/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 May 2009 on the operation of genetically modified micro-organisms under controlled conditions (recast) (OB, L 125/75 of 25 May 2009). , Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing Council Directive 90/220/EEC and Commission Directive (EU) 2018/350 of 8 March 2018 amending Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the environmental risk assessment of genetically modified organisms (OJ L 67/30, 9 March 2018) .?..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u33	Mr. Genov, I also suggest that you read § 4 and finish the main part of the bill and from there open the discussion. Because I see that there are 12 pages to read, perhaps Mrs. Sultanova can help you at some point with reading. I'm just giving it to you as an offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u34	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Annex 1 to art. 43, para. 3 is amended as follows: "Acceptance No 1' to art. 43, para. 3 Principles for carrying out an environmental and human health risk assessment This Annex describes the overall objective to be achieved, the elements to be considered and the general principles and methodology to be followed when carrying out the risk assessment for human health and the environment (OP) under art. 43, para. 3. When carrying out an environmental and human health risk assessment, the following types of effects should be distinguished: 1. Direct effects on human health or the environment resulting from GMOs itself and not occurring through a causal chain of events are the primary effects on human health or the environment; 2. In addition, the effects on human health or the environment occurring through a causal chain of events, through mechanisms such as interactions with other organisms, transfer of genetic material or changes in use or management. indirect consequences may be observed at a later stage; 3. The effects on human health or the environment which have been observed during the GMO release period are immediate effects. The immediate effects may be direct or indirect; 4. The effects on human health or the environment are delayed, which cannot be observed during the release period of GMOs, but become visible as a direct or indirect consequence either at a later stage or after the exemption is terminated. A general principle for carrying out an environmental risk assessment is that an analysis of the cumulative long-term effects of the release into the environment of GMOs or their placing on the market should be carried out. The cumulative long-term effects are related to the accumulated effects of authorisations on human health and the environment, including flora and fauna, soil fertility, the degradation of organic material in soil, food chain, biodiversity, animal health and antibiotic resistance problems. I. Objective: The aim of the OP is to identify and assess, on the basis of each case, the potential adverse effects of GMOs, directly or indirectly, immediate or delayed, on human health and the environment that it may have on the deliberate release into the environment or placing on the market of GMOs. The risk assessment for human health and the environment shall be carried out in order to identify the need for risk management and, if such a need is identified, it shall be carried out by the most appropriate methods. II. General principles: In accordance with the precautionary principle, the following general principles should be respected in the performance of the IOP: 1. The identified characteristics of the GMOs and its use which have the potential to cause adverse effects shall be compared with those represented by the unmodified organism from which it originated and its use in corresponding situations; 2. The risk assessment for human health and the environment shall be carried out in a scientifically and transparent manner based on available scientific and technical data; 3. The risk assessment for human health and the environment shall be carried out on a case-by-case basis and the information required may vary depending on the type of GMOs concerned, their intended use and the potential host environment, taking into account the GMOs already present in the environment; 4. Where new information on GMOs and its effects on human health or the environment is available, it may be necessary to review the RF to determine whether: (a) the risk has changed and/or (b) there is a need for change in risk management. III. Methodology: 1. General and specific considerations for the implementation of the OP: (a) planned and unforeseen changes: As part of the process of identification and assessment of the potential adverse effects referred to in Section I, the DPE shall identify planned and unforeseen changes due to genetic modification and assess their potential to cause adverse effects on human health and the environment. The intended changes due to genetic modification are changes which are planned to occur and which meet the initial objectives of genetic modification. Unforeseen changes due to genetic modification are successive changes that go beyond the intended changes resulting from genetic modification. The intended and unforeseen changes may have direct or indirect, immediate or delayed effects on human health and the environment. (b) long-term adverse effects and cumulative long-term adverse effects of the RF for applications under art. 59, para. 2: The long-term effects of a GMOs are the consequences of a delayed reaction of organisms or their offspring to a long-term or chronic exposure to a GMOs or to a broad use of a GMOs in time and space. The identification and assessment of the potential long-term adverse effects of a GMOs on human health and the environment shall take into account the following: (aa) long-term interactions of the GMOs concerned with the host environment; (bb) the characteristics of the GMOs concerned, which acquire greater importance in the long term; (c) the data obtained under repeated conscious exemptions or placing on the market of the GMOs concerned over a long period of time. The identification and assessment of potential cumulative long-term adverse effects shall also take into account GMOs which, at the time of the assessment, have been deliberately released or placed on the market. (c) Data quality: For carrying out an OR for applications under art. 59, para. 2 The applicant shall collect the available data from scientific literature or from other sources, including observations reports, and generate the necessary data and, where possible, carry out the relevant studies. Where applicable, the applicant shall provide justification in the OD for the reasons why data generation by testing is not possible. Assessment of the risk to human health and the environment for applications under art. 46, para. 2 shall be based at least on available data from scientific literature or other sources and may be supplemented by more data generated by the applicant. Where data generated outside Europe are provided in the OP, their importance for the host environment or environments in Bulgaria and in the European Union must be justified. The data provided in the OD for applications under art. 59, para. 2, shall meet the following requirements: (aa) where toxicological studies carried out to assess the risk to human or animal health have been provided in the POP, the applicant shall provide evidence that the studies have been carried out in facilities corresponding to: (aa) the requirements of the ordinance under art. 5, para. 6 of the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, or (bbb) the principles of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA) for good laboratory practice when research is carried out outside the European Union; (bb) where studies other than toxicological studies are provided in a risk assessment, they shall: (aaa) comply with the principles of good laboratory practice laid down in the Ordinance under art. 5, para. 6 of the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, where applicable, or (bbb) are carried out by organisations accredited according to the relevant ISO standard, or (c) have been carried out according to internationally recognised standards in the absence of a relevant ISO standard; (c) the information on the results of the studies referred to in points (a) and (b) and the research protocols used shall be reliable and detailed and shall include the raw data in electronic format suitable for carrying out statistical or other analysis; (d) where possible, the applicant shall specify the extent of the consequence that each study carried out is intended to establish and give the relevant justification; (e) the selection of field research sites shall be consistent with the host environment in view of the potential exposure and effects that could be observed where the relevant genetically modified organism may be released; the risk assessment shall include a justification for the selection; (fe) the non-genetically modified benchmark shall be suitable for the host environment or environment and its genetic origin shall be comparable to the relevant genetically modified organism; the risk assessment shall include a justification for the selection of the benchmark. (d) multiple transformation events in applications under art. 59, para. 2: For risk assessment of a genetically modified organism containing multiple transformation events in applications under art. 59, para. 2 the following requirements shall apply: (aa) the applicant shall provide one risk assessment for each single transformation event in the relevant genetically modified organism or shall refer to applications already submitted for those single transformation events; (bb) The applicant shall provide an assessment of: (aa) the stability of transformation events; (bbb) the expression of transformation events; (c) potential additive, synergistic or antagonistic effects resulting from the combination of transformation events; c) where the offspring of the relevant genetically modified organism may contain different secondary combinations of multiple transformation events, the applicant shall provide a scientific opinion demonstrating that it is not necessary to provide experimental data for the relevant secondary combinations regardless of their origin or, if there is no such scientific opinion, to provide the experimental data. 2. Characteristics of the relevant genetically modified organism and exemptions: A risk assessment should take into account applicable technical and scientific data on the characteristics of: (a) the host or parental body/organism; (b) genetic modification/modifications such as the introduction or cutting of genetic material, as well as relevant information on the vector and donor; (c) the genetically modified organism itself; (d) the intended release or use, including their scale; (e) the potential host environment or environments in which a genetically modified organism will be released and where the transgen can spread; and (f) the interaction/interactions between these characteristics. The risk assessment shall take into account relevant information from previous exemptions to the same or similar genetically modified organisms and organisms with similar signs, as well as their biotic and abiotic interaction with similar environments, including information from the monitoring of such organisms, subject to the conditions of art. 48, para. 1 or art. 62, para. 2. 3. Risk assessment stages: Assessment of the risk to human health and the environment under art. 42, para. Art. 1, art. 47, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 60, para. 1, t. 6 shall be carried out for each relevant risk area referred to in Section IV. 1 or 2 according to the following six stages: (a) formulation of the problem, including Hazard identification: (aa) any changes to the characteristics of the body related to genetic modification shall be identified and the characteristics of the relevant genetically modified organism shall be compared to those of the selected non-genetically modified reference object under corresponding conditions of release or use; (bb) the potential adverse effects on human health or the environment are identified which are related to the changes identified in the sub-text. Potential adverse effects on humans and the environment shall be considered for all cases, including cases where they are unlikely to occur. The potential adverse effects may vary on a case-by-case basis and may include: (aaa) effects on the dynamics of populations of species in the host environment and the genetic diversity of each of those populations resulting in a potential reduction in biodiversity; (bbb) modified susceptibility to pathogens facilitating the spread of infectious diseases or creating new reservoirs or vectors; (cc) adverse effects on the effectiveness of preventive or therapeutic medical or veterinary treatments and of plant protection measures applied, for example by transferring genes that are resistant to antibiotics used in human or veterinary medicine; gd) effects on biogeochemistry (biochemical cycles), including carbon and nitrogen cycle, by changes in the degradation of organic matter in soil; ddd) causing diseases in humans, including allergic or toxic reactions; (ee) causing diseases in animals and plants, including toxic, and allergic reactions may also occur in animals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Genov. If you'll just take a breath, I suggest we say hello to the children who are visiting us. Hello. [[Applause.]] And we can move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u36	Where potential long-term adverse effects of a GMOs are identified, they shall be assessed through documentation studies and, where possible, one or more of the following shall be used: (aaa) evidence from previous trials; (bbbb) available data sets or literature; (c) Mathematical modeling. (c) the relevant assessment endpoints shall be identified; the potential adverse effects that could have an impact on the identified assessment endpoints shall be taken into account in the subsequent stages of the assessment; (d) identify and describe how exposure or other mechanisms may have adverse effects. Unfavourable effects may arise directly or indirectly by means of exposure or other mechanisms which may include: (aaa) distribution of GMOs into the environment; (bbb) transfer of the introduced genetic material into the same or other organisms, whether genetically modified or not; (cc) phenotypic and genetic instability; (gd) interactions with other organisms; (edd) changes in management, including in agricultural practice, where applicable. (e) hypotheses shall be formulated to be tested and relevant measurement endpoints shall be determined to allow, where possible, a quantitative assessment of the potential adverse effects; (f) account shall be taken of any uncertainty, including lack of knowledge and methodological limitations. (b) Hazard characterisation: The magnitude of any potential adverse consequence shall be assessed. In this assessment, it is assumed that the adverse effect will occur. The risk assessment shall take into account the fact that the magnitude is likely to be influenced by the host environment or environment in which GMOs are intended to be released and by the scale and conditions of the exemption. Where possible, the assessment shall be quantified. A clear description shall be used in terms of quality of the assessment and shall explain the scale of the effects for each category. (c) Exposure characterisation: An assessment shall be made of the possibility or probability of the occurrence of each of the identified potential adverse effects in order to provide, where possible, a quantitative assessment of exposure as a relative measure of probability or where this is not possible, a qualitative assessment of exposure. The characteristics of the host environment or environment and the scope of the application shall be taken into account. In terms of valuation, a clear description of the exposure shall be used (size, size, size, size, size, size of the exposure) and shall explain the scale of the effects for each category. (d) Risk characterisation: The risk shall be characterised by combining its magnitude and the possibility of its occurrence for each potential adverse consequence in order to provide a quantitative or semi-quantitative estimate of the risk. Where it is not possible to provide a quantitative or semi-quantitative estimate, a qualitative risk assessment shall be provided. In this case, a clear description of the risk (size, medium, low or low) shall be used and the scale of the effects for each category shall be explained. Where relevant, the uncertainty for each identified risk shall be described and, where possible, quantified. (e) risk management strategies: A risk management strategy should be proposed when establishing risks on the basis of whose characterisation measures for their management are required. Risk management strategies shall be described in terms of risk mitigation, exposure or both and shall be proportionate to the intended risk mitigation, the scale and conditions of the release and the uncertainty level identified in a risk assessment. Where possible, the subsequent reduction in total risk shall be expressed quantitatively. (f) an assessment of the overall risk and conclusions: A qualitative and quantitative assessment of the overall risk of the GMOs concerned shall be carried out taking into account the results of risk characterisation, proposed risk management strategies and relevant uncertainty levels. Where applicable, the overall risk assessment shall include risk management strategies proposed for each identified risk. The assessment of the overall risk and conclusions shall also propose specific requirements for the monitoring plan for the GMOs concerned and, where appropriate, for the monitoring of the effectiveness of the proposed risk management measures. For applications under art. 59, para. The risk assessment shall include an explanation of the assumptions made during the risk assessment and the nature and magnitude of risks-related uncertainty and a justification for the proposed risk management measures. IV. Conclusions of the risk assessment on specific risk areas: The conclusions on the potential environmental impact of the release or placing on the market of GMOs in the relevant host environments shall be drawn for each area of risk covered by this point. 1 of this section for GMOs other than higher plants; or 2 of this section for genetically modified higher plants, based on the risk assessment carried out in accordance with the principles set out in Section II and in accordance with the methodology set out in Section III, and on the information required under the regulation under art. 45. 1. In the case of GMOs other than higher plants: (a) the likelihood of GMOs becoming sustainable and invasive in the natural habitats of the proposed/proposed release/releases; (b) any selective advantage or disadvantage passed on to GMOs and the likelihood that it will take place under the conditions of the exemption/release proposed; (c) ability of genetic transfer to other species under the conditions of the proposed release of GMOs and any selective advantage or disadvantage passed on to those species; (d) potentially immediate and/or delayed environmental impact of direct and indirect interactions between GMOs and target organisms (where applicable) ; (e) potentially immediate and/or delayed environmental impact of direct and indirect interactions between GMOs and non-target organisms, including an impact on the level of populations of competitors, victims, hosts, symbionts, predators, parasites and pathogens; (f) possible immediate and/or delayed effects on human health as a result of potential direct and indirect interactions of GMOs and persons working or coming into contact with them or located near the release/release of GMOs; (g) possible immediate and/or delayed effects on animal health and effects on the food chain as a result of the consumption of GMOs and any product produced by it where it is intended to be used as animal feed; (h) possible immediate and/or delayed effects on biochemical processes resulting from potential direct and indirect interactions of GMOs with target and non-target organisms that are close to the release/release of GMOs; (i) possible immediate and/or delayed, direct or indirect environmental impacts of specific techniques used for the management of GMOs where they are different from those used for organisms which are not genetically modified. 2. In the case of genetically modified higher plants (GMOs): (a) resistance and invasion of the GMVR, including transfer of genes from plant to plant; (b) transfer of genes from plant to micro-organisms; (c) interactions of the GMVR with target organisms; (d) interactions of the GMVR with non-target organisms; (e) effects of specific cultivation, management and harvesting techniques; (f) effects on biochemical processes; (g) effects on human and animal health.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u37	Thank you. We're done with § 4. I open the discussion on the title of the Bill and paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. Mr. Mladen Shishkov has been recorded. Here you go. Group declaration before that. You have the floor, Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the rest of the children once again: welcome! Yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister Grozdan Karadjov announced on TV that the government would fall if the highways were not finished. I suggest you, colleagues, just pack your bags, pack your files and fall quickly, as it is clear to everyone now. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] , crystal clear that both highways will not be completed within the time limits that have been set and set by us. His words probably sound to the unenlightened as a sympathetic sacrifice, but in this fact, be assured, some of the experienced politicians immediately detect an attempt to put pressure on the coalition, and pressure specifically on one person, one special person.. Your supervice Prime Minister Vassilev, from whom we all know that the fates depend not only on these two key infrastructure projects, but on all the policies that have been implemented in the country in the last year. To the arguments of Deputy Prime Minister and Regional Minister Grozdan Karadjov I would add another. Pretty soon it will become clear to all of us, perhaps today or tomorrow, when we look at the Public Procurement Act, that, in practice, the indexing of the works contracts, and for all other services, there will be no deliveries, as in the budget that you are offering, there is not one penny in its latest update for the indexing of these contracts. That is, you make kind eyes at the builders, the Bulgarian municipalities, the Bulgarian companies, fooling them that by changing the Public Procurement Act, you see, you will take account of the inflation processes and index their contracts, and in fact the only action you should have done is to bet, predict funds in the budget update for this. You didn't, so make sure this comes back as a boomerang because of the thousands of suspended municipal projects and hundreds of those with a contracting state. I never thought I'd say this, but here I am, forced to do it, the sadly famous construction minister Komitova was right in one of the worst constructions is unfinished. This is what you, my colleagues, will build a zero, a zero! You will not build anything as tombs, as monuments of government powerlessness will remain to stand hundreds, thousands of even unfinished objects! All the sites that you normally have in some television appearances you are talking about that you are rehabilitating roads, that you are building, you see, some highway that will start building some water supply, all these sites to one degree or another have been started and set up by our last government, I repeat, either as design, or as trading, or as real construction. I will also give an example with the highway Struma. Here is Deputy Prime Minister Sandov, they with Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov, I suppose, have perfect communication on the subject, perfect communication on the subject. Unfortunately, though, the Strumas through the Kresna Gorge will be gone. And you have to say clearly, categorically and precisely to the Bulgarian citizens why it will not be there during the Kresna Gorge and why with Deputy Prime Minister Karadzhov you are on a completely different, diametrically opposite position on this extremely important topic for our society. And it is not only important in relation to the topic of road safety, the topic of transit traffic, on Corridor No 4. It is extremely important and because of something that I do not know whether you are giving yourself a clear account, it will knock on the door, perhaps not on your door, but on the next drivers after a year......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So bear in mind that there we will return billions to the European Commission and this process, if you continue to dawdle for another month or two, it will become irreversible. If we were in charge, hemus Motorway would have already passed Lovech and gone to Veliko Tarnovo, and it would have been completely legal, I stress, in 2024 it would have been ready from end to end. You've spent a year stretching out locums and making excuses, and now you're going to continue on our contracts, stressing, on those vicious inhouse contracts you think! Once again, you prove that the In House procedures, such as are scheduled and accepted throughout the European Union as good practice, were the best possible and fastest solution for speeding infrastructure construction in Northern Bulgaria. You don't just pay for these contracts, you keep building on them and on them alone! Only on them, I emphasize! Yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov made the same recognition in the Regional Commission. Unfortunately, your political hypocrisy not only irreversibly delayed these objects, you, based on this speech and hypocrisy, have built your entire political campaign, but do you know what this will cost the Bulgarian taxpayer and the Bulgarian citizens? Billions, colleagues, new billions! Because Hemus is already worth a minimum of a billion and a half because of inflation, because of the rise in prices of construction materials and all those incompetent policies that you have been conducting over the last year. And the renovations of the Republican road infrastructure, I do not want to bring this up at all. You've been hanging out for months, and when you put the knife to a bone, you saw that the roads were dangerous because of the lack of maintenance. Two winters in a row are missing this support and you found a palatial solution, which, by the way, is still clumsy, so I'm not going to dwell on it. You, gentlemen of the Change, finish, repeat, everything we started, on our contracts, with the same mechanisms. Once again polishes your political hypocrisy, your political hypocrisy. But, unfortunately, you lack the pace, you lack the capacity, you lack the expertise. It is already clear to everyone what damage of the interests of Bulgarian citizens the Change has caused. For the sole purpose of disappearing GERB, with lies and manipulations stopped the pace of building the necessary infrastructure sites. So, did you guys play? I think you're playing a game. The fruits will be picked in the coming early parliamentary elections. Resign, amateurs! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Nankov. Colleagues, I found the debates on the title of the Law and paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. Mr. Mladen Shishkov was the first to sign up. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u40	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear guests! I am speaking on the name of the Bill and I would like to say a few things that I also said during the first vote of the Bill that we do not, in principle, object to the texts provided for in the Bill, not only because they are prepared by the GERB Government, but because they refer mainly to the alignment of national legislation to European legislation in relation to amendments to European directives in the field of genetically modified organisms. The fact that no proposals have been tabled between the first and second votes means that the bill was well prepared in 2020. Of course, we also do not object to the changes to the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game, which provide for the issuance of a regulation to determine the content, order, process and documentation necessary to establish and pay compensation for damages caused by a brown bear and Cormorant. We also do not object to the amendments to the Law on Protected Areas, which regulate the payment of damages for damages incurred within these territories. We strongly support the change of the borders and the area of the reserve and of the Stepite protected area, because we are all familiar with the problems of the Bolata area and, of course, their solution cannot be delayed. However, we strongly object to this approach, colleagues. Firstly, the excessive delay of this bill is inexplicable because, as it became clear, it was prepared and adopted by the GERB government in 2020 and although there was a criminal procedure already under way, it took six months for the Change to submit this draft bill to the National Assembly. Secondly, the Change came with a firm request that it will never apply the legislative techniques applied by GERB again. From this tribune, shirts were torn, spells were cast, wild accusations were made. But what do we see now? The same approach as GERB's. One to one. I thought you said it was vicious, fellow Members. I thought it was bad to change laws through transitional and final regulations. There is no way to accept the justification that the Bill was so driven through the legislative procedure. Colleagues, you have had enough time to reformate it, to open the Hunting and Conservation Act, to open the Law on Protected Areas and to execute your requests for change. But you didn't. You didn't do it because you realized that sometimes changes need to be made that way. And there is nothing wrong with that, there is nothing wrong with that, moreover, colleagues, that legislation allows it. Colleagues, last time I called you, just admit you were wrong in your grades. Admit it, you were fascinated by the election talk. Admit that all your accusations were a big mistake. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Shishkov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Ganev. Colleagues, I explain that the discussion is under paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 including, in addition to the title of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u42	Madam President! Mr. Shishkov, you are not properly expressing yourself.. Call them to admit that they are GERB 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u43	Are there any lines to Mr. Shishkov's statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u44	Thank you. In fact, colleague, if this were GERB 2, it would be very good. Unfortunately, however, in no way can they be compared to GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Genov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u46	Madam President, you yourself stressed that we are discussing the subject and content of the paragraphs up to the 4th, and 4th, including. You allowed Mr. Shishkov to interpret in Transitional and Final Provisions the changes in other laws. Give him a chance when we come to Transitional and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u47	I'll give him, he has the right to speak on every...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u48	Don't let these things happen. Mr. Shishkov noted very well about Bolata and Steppie, he missed Aleppu only to say, but we'll comment on that another time. [[Reply from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] So I am making you a note, Madam President, do not allow any comments and debates beyond the subject of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u50	Dear Mrs. Kirova, ladies and gentlemen of the House, guests! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on today's International Ocean Day. It is extremely important because everything ends up going there, including pollution. A few words about the time because we were blamed that we were only now looking at this bill and brought it to the Council of Ministers at a later stage and from there to the National Assembly. Strangely, given that this bill was drawn up a long time ago why did the last regular government of GERB not accept it? Isn't that your attitude to the subject of time? [[The Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDS is leaving the hall.]] Mr. Nankov, did he leave too? And speaking of time and, of course, on the subject of the Bill, it is a harmonisation of European legislation, I hope that you will accept it today, including its final provisions amending two other laws, but they are important in their nature. But for the time and for the highway of Struma, just to tell you that it is planned to start in 2008 the action and construction of the highway of Struma in the part of Kresna Gorge.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u51	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u52	This did not happen either from GERB's first government, nor from GERB's second government, nor from GERB's third government! In GERB's third government, realizing that this cannot happen in the way they have tried, you have attempted to chicify the environmental assessment, providing either a tunnel or an entirely Eastern bypass, you have finally decided to adopt a new decision on the Council of Ministers to build by national means, bypassing the environmental legislation and European one that would lead to a criminal procedure. So when you throw these accusations at the current government and try to create discord between me and Deputy Prime Minister Karadjov, with whom we had a very productive meeting yesterday, by the way, and we have a common opinion that we should work within the law, it is not good not to forget all the sleepy time. By the way, there will be no highway in this part of the segment, and it's never supposed to be. There's going to be a speed section there, as part of the general approach, and that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u53	You're a green mafia! A green mafia!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u54	Oh, yeah? Oh, write it down, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u55	Mr. Minister, let's not have this kind of conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u56	This is not a conversation, this is an insult and I hope that you will make a remark to your colleague MP Mr. Nenkov, Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u57	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u58	Don't answer from a place.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u59	No Nankov, this is Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u60	Because you're not speaking on the bill, but you're speaking on a declaration that was previously made by a parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u61	Yeah, take the attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u62	...I will have to give respect to all the parliamentary groups and lose the discussion on the bill, which I think is wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u63	It is not right to say that we are late with this bill, given that this bill has been drawn up...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u64	Each parliamentary group shall have the right to make a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u65	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u66	You're commenting on the declaration. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u67	I am commenting on the Bill at the moment and the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u68	Let's get back to the bill, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u69	Yeah. I'm commenting on the Bill and the time it happens. However, if it is accepted in this form, after all the procedures that have been completed, it will lead us to close one of the many cases that have been brought against Bulgaria as a result of delays or failure of commitments by the Bulgarian state, which compromises the possibility for citizens to live in a clean environment, which is also healthy. About highway politicians and weather, we'll probably talk some other time, but some of the highways aren't being built, and because those bags of money obviously didn't get to where they were supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u70	We're moving on to the next speech. Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u71	We have a right to an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u72	Let's not get into this debate, it's completely unnecessary and it doesn't lead anywhere. Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u73	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak only on the Bill and the texts in it. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is clear that the Bill, which is of our attention, must unify the texts with European legislation, things that we must comply with. I will have to admit that I will support this bill with exceptional, let's say mixed thoughts, and for the simple reason that it concerns most of all things that I have been doing my whole life. I have completed genetic engineering and people like me are the ones who do GMOs. It is clear that under European legislation, we must have such a law in European Union policy, to restrict the spread and use of genetically modified organisms. However, I feel obliged to inform the MPs that by voting and supporting the bill, we will do so precisely in support of the common European values, but we also need to know a few facts. The fact that so far there is no serious scientific publication to prove any harmfulness by genetically modified organisms. You should also know that we are constantly using genetically modified organisms, and it is very difficult to put the limit to where this is possible, as far as it is not. Genetically modified organisms are the ones that make your bread. Genetically modified organisms also make beer. Genetically modified organisms produce insulin and a number of medicines. So, anyway, we use genetically modified organisms. When it comes to those who are our food, it is also extremely difficult to limit them, given that 70% of the world's territory is free for genetically modified organisms. There are few countries and regions where this is regulated, especially with regard to the European Union, where it is much more seriously limited. However, it is clear to us that, in our organisation, I am referring to an organisation such as the European Union, we must comply with all these laws and they must be unified, and that is why we must support this law precisely in line with common European legislation, but with the clear condition that these are rules and regulations, which in time are yet to be changed, and there will be new and new data and facts that can change it in one direction or another. This is extremely important to know. So when we're talking about testing, when we're talking about all those paragraphs that were described, where we're going to check harmless and testing, possibilities for any negative influences, we're just going to have to know that there's no way to do that the way we think we can. For the time being, there is no direct negative impact of any genetically modified organism on our health. So this bill is entirely in line with the legislation that exists in the European Union. I can only conclude that there are countries next to us that do not have such restrictions. I do not believe that there is no way through air, soil, water and so on to pass through all kinds of things, let's call them evolutions, because often pollutants are defined as pollutants, but these are respectively materials that can be from, for example, areas that are present with such genetically modified organisms. This simply cannot be restricted in the countries where such legislation exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. Are there any lines to Mr. Chorbanov's statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My speech will be completely in line with Professor Chorbanov's that we cannot fail to pass this law for many reasons of a purely historical, economic and geoeconomic nature, if I may say so, because the problem of feeding the population of the Earth poses very big challenges at the moment to the world and genetically modified products give this opportunity. What I want is, as one of our colleagues here once said very well, to bruise him to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is that, indeed from now on, the task of every government is in the most serious plan to have a system of control and monitoring the influence of these genetically modified products, as I can tell you, I do not know whether Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is obliged to know these things, in my opinion not that we are already using genomodifying therapy for congenital severe chronic diseases. And it's introduced, it's allowed in the world, but I dare say that a lot of things are not yet known in this genetic modification therapy, even though there are periods of follow-up. I'll give you an example. Many things that are introduced into practice, in life, as a commercial practice, such as trade in products, unfortunately, sometimes without being genetically modified even, then it turns out that they have fatal consequences on the human organism. For all doctors this example is known with a tranquilizer that soothes pregnant women in pregnant psychoses, which turned out in the 1960s to give scary births to newborns. It was resolved, you remember it, Professor Chorbanov, the company was convicted and bankrupt So the question is philosophical, the question is ethical, and stressing the need to enter the family of countries that are walking confidently on the way to the use of genetically modified products, my request is as a doctor, as a member of parliament and I address you mostly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, indeed to create an opportunity, with cooperation with other mostly scientific organizations, of course, to allow these issues, which Professor Chorbanov also said, to be carefully, linearly controlled over time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there lines? Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u77	Dear Mrs. Kirova, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, guests, Mr. Chorbanov, Mr. Mihailov! It is important to clarify that the bill is primarily aimed at that part of the Law on Genetically Modified Organisms, in which are the so-called genetically modified microorganisms. It's important to know so that no speculation starts. This does not allow genetically modified organisms to be planted in the Bulgarian fields or genetically modified organisms to target animals because world practice also knows such examples. In fact, this bill creates a better basis for risk assessment, better protection of the process of working with genetically modified microorganisms. And otherwise, yes, GMMs, or genetically modified micro-organisms, exist for a very long time, they are applied in pharmacy, in some other processes. And yes, we must also be careful with such practices, so the European legislation that we are currently harmonise creates order for stricter control and better monitoring. Otherwise, we, as the Ministry through the Executive Environment Agency, have a laboratory that investigates every year a certain set of samples that are made for, in general terms, crops and experimental fields, so that we can be sure that there is no violation of the prohibitions that are in other parts of this law to release into the environment of another type of genetically modified organisms. Science is evolving. It has an ethical character, this question is also true, but it is not the subject of this bill. So I suggest that if you have an idea to expand the debate in those other parts of the law, to do it in a Commission or a specialised discussion, but really now with this bill we simply increase the possibilities for stricter control and harmonise the legislation with regard to risk assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We move on to the transitional and final provisions, § 5, come in. Colleagues, I suggest we finish this in a few minutes, because... Let me read you a message. From 11:30 in the Club of the People's Representative will be opened an exhibition titled "Children for the Future of the Planet." The exhibition presents children's drawings from different settlements where children express their positive attitude towards animals and nature. The exhibition is organized by the AFA Foundation. All MPs are invited to the event. As it is 11.25, I suggest we proceed with the transitional and closing provisions after the break. I'll give you half an hour off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u79	Honourable Members, I shall resume the sitting. The discussion on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1 We need to move on to a vote. My fellow Members, as five minutes have passed in anticipation, I do not see enough people in this House, in view of the upcoming vote, I am doing a check of the prospectus. It's 124 registered. There's a quorum. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the name of the bill and paragraphs 1 and 4. We vote 'em enbloc. They voted 130 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Sultanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u80	"Transitional and final provisions' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 79 is created. 3: . (3) The order for determining damages and payment of damages under para. 2 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Environment and Water. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Protected Areas (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is inserted in Chapter 3. 45a: Art. 45a. (1) A person who has done damage to a protected territory shall pay compensation. (2) The order for determining damage to protected areas and the amount of compensation shall be determined by a decree adopted by the Council of Ministers. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) a new sentence is created second: the Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation with a decision on the management plans of national and natural parks, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union; b) The previous sentence second becomes the third sentence. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74, para. 1 is created a new t. 1: "1." the benefits under art. 45a, para. 1); 4. In Annex 2 to art. 8, para. 1 in Section 1 (Reserves) in order number 6, in columns 4, 5 and 6 is finally added the table as set out in the Annex. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Environment and Water shall issue the ordinance under art. 79, para. 3 of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. (2) The compensations for damages caused by a brown bear and a Cormorant, which are established until the issue of the ordinance under art. 79, para. 3 of the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act are paid in the current order. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Sultanova. I am opening the discussion on the name of the section of the Department of Transport and Final Provisions and paragraphs 5 to 8, including, as presented by the Vice-President of the Committee on Environment and Water. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions' by importer, § 5 in the version of the Commission, § 6 also in the version of the Commission, § 7 is also in the version of the Commission and § 8 which is an importer supported by the Committee on Environment and Water. We vote on the name of the division, paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 anblock. They voted 122 MPs: 104 against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. With this, the bill was passed in a second vote. Thank you, Mr. Sandov, for being here to present the Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN THE COMPANY OF STANDING COMMITMENTS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. There have been two draft decisions on change in the composition of committees. One is in the composition of the Committee on Energy, the other is the Committee on Education and Science. They came from the DPS parliamentary group. I'd like one of the importers to present the projects. Here you go, Mr. Nestorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u82	Dear colleagues! Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Mumyun Sally Mumyun as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He elected Fatme Hassan Ramadan as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Anblok may also vote on a decision to change the composition of the Energy Commission. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 18, para. Art. 3 and Art. 19th para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Fatme Hassan Ramadan as a member of the Energy Commission. 2. He elected Mumyun Sally Mumyun as a member of the Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. I am opening a discussion on the presented draft decisions. There are no speakers. I'm calling off the discussion. We will vote separately on the two projects one after the other. First of all, I put to the vote a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Education and Science. 130 MPs voted: 128 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Energy Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 131, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We've run out of that point in the program. Let's move on to the next one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ASSISTANCES TO SPEND THE NATURAL GAS FROM THE OO "GAZPROM EXPORT" AND THE PROCEEDING PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF ALTERNATIVE DELIVERIES FROM THE BULGAZ EAD. The draft decision was signed by the President of the Temporary Commission Daniel Mitov. Mr. Mitov, I don't see him here to present the Project, but maybe some other representative of the Temporary Commission will present the Project. To extend the Temporary Commission, Mr. Dobrev, you are a member, you can present the Draft Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Project! DECISION on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification of Circumstances led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from "Bulgargaz" EAD The National Assembly on the basis of art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It extended the duration of the Temporary Committee for the Verification of the Circumstances leading to the suspension of natural gas from OOO "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz "EAD" by 1 month. The reason, fellow Members, to request this extension is that today we will hold the first hearing. Last week this committee could not be held because the boss of Bulgargaz was absent and the boss of Bulgartransgaz was not in the country. I mean, today's the first session. There must be another hearing, a corresponding time to write the report, and this requires that we extend the Commission's deadline by one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u85	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I am opening a discussion on the presented draft decision. Is there anyone who wants to speak? There is. Docent Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria will support the proposed solution, but allow us to make an editorial proposal to create this. 5 and 6 in the Draft Decision with the following content, which I will also present to you in writing. New t. 5: The Commission established all the facts and circumstances for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 May 2022 related to the supply of crude oil by producer Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, including used intermediaries, the actions taken by the representatives of the state in Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the differences between stock and purchase price. New t. 6: "Reviews and analyses the documents related to the establishment of the content, the parties and the subject of the documents adopted and signed, including contracts by the "Lukoil Neftohim Burgas" AD, the Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers. We believe that over the years, the problems that have been put in the management of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the attitude towards fulfilling various public obligations towards the state, the deep doubt of dependence on, of course, Russia, to the harm of Bulgaria, the problems imposed with the tax warehouses, with non-compliance with tax obligations justify precisely the carrying out of such an inspection and in this sense we make the editorial proposal and hope it will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u87	For a line, Mr. Dobrev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u88	Mr. President, honourable Members, I agree with what my colleague Slavov said. I think it is extremely urgent to address these issues because I have bothered to check the price of oil 2012 and it turns out that it was higher, colleagues than it is now, during the war. The price of oil then, in the period March.April, was 125 dollars, and now it is 120, meaning with five dollars then it was more expensive the price of oil, at the same time the price of fuels then was 2.75, notice, 2.75, now it is close to 3.50 at the same VAT and the same excise duty. In other words, what really happens on the fuel market in Bulgaria? Why was the price of gasoline and diesel less expensive 10 years ago? What the colleague has also tried to say, but not quite clearly, is that we all have doubts that Russian oil is being bought at a 30-40% discount, i.e. at 70-80 dollars, it is being sold at high prices through the supplier and fuel company in Bulgaria is becoming the most expensive from all over Europe. Now, Mr. Martin Dimitrov has a very favorite topic. I am sure that he will also take part in this debate. But, colleagues, this topic that you are proposing has nothing to do with the topic of gas. This oil neither buys it, nor buys it, as is the subject of this commission. In other words, I do not think that the subject of this committee can be amended enough to start investigating the activities of Lukoil. That is why I propose to you, and I will be one of the contributors with you, if you don't mind, Mr. Slavov, I am sure that Mr. Martin Dimitrov will also sign for one such commission, so that we can make another temporary commission to see what happens to the fuel market in Bulgaria. Because I repeat once again, 10 years ago with more expensive oil gasoline and diesel are one lev cheaper and notice, the same excise duty and the same VAT. Don't let anyone out here explain that the excise duty was cheaper back then. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Second line: Vladimir Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Marinov. Third line, Tsoncho Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will support the proposal to extend the term of work of the Temporary Commission for verification of the circumstances that led to the suspension of the natural gas from Gazprom, but at the same time, Mr. Slavov, we do not believe that what you are proposing to analyse all the facts and circumstances regarding the supply of crude oil in Lukoil is the subject of this commission. Moreover, we would support such a proposal, but let us add to the possible creation of a new temporary committee and something else to examine and analyse all the facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation of the Maritsa East 1 [[speaking indistinctly]] , three, I apologize to the TPPs. Let's see exactly how the deals happened, what happened, what we paid for and how we paid for it. Let's do it when we're done, let's do it all the way. So, if there is such a proposal, let's discuss it, but be the subject of another temporary committee, not the one dealing specifically with the gas, because the volume is not at all small and we should do our job properly anyway, and not fill it with content without any result at all, anyway, for the temporary period we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u92	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Slavov, a few months ago in this House was voted on the establishment of a Commission for Constitutional Changes. Mr. Ivanov never found it necessary to convene the committee in question. A few weeks ago, I think that Mr. Ivanov read a very spacious speech in which he called for the nationalization of Lukoil, after which, a few minutes later, the finance minister came out and explained that it was still a Swiss company. I am of the same opinion that we should look quite thoroughly at everything related to Lukoil in the past years, what and how it leads to that we have such expensive gasoline and diesel. The Commission, which is currently requested to extend its term of employment, is fundamentally different. This committee must show that we are one of the few countries that we do not pay to banks of the Gazprom, we pay intermediaries for 30% more gas. Because it turns out we want documents in this committee to show that the government voted on the Council of Ministers that it wouldn't pay, not that something else happened. So the things that are required in this committee as documents, and the seriousness of this committee is different from the serious subject you are raising. We will support the establishment of a Commission for the Prime Minister for Lukoil, we welcome such a committee, but not in this version, in which there is not enough time to gather the Commission, to discuss all the documents required by the institutions. That is why this is not the option that you are currently trying to bring into another topic. Let's first clarify about Lukoil. Let's clarify about Gszprom. And about Bulgargaz. What happened and then, if you want in parallel with this, propose the creation of a new committee in question, we will support it, but not in the case in which you want it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, associate professor Slavov, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the lines. Expected reaction, colleagues, of course. However, we insist that our proposals be voted on, because the time we have at our disposal, parliamentary time must be spared and efforts concentrated. When a committee is set up, whose subject we propose to expand with these two new points, the most logical thing is for this temporary committee to discuss the matter, given that if we set up an alternative committee, it will have the same composition. That is, two temporary committees with almost identical composition will deal with this topic. And in view of parliamentary time, procedural economy, allow me to use this legal term, and we are also making our proposal. It fits into our overall strategy, which we announced from the parliamentary tribune steps, measures for the deputation of the state and Lukoil is such an emblematic place, which focuses many dependencies from which Bulgarian society must be free. I also understand colleagues who say they would support a separate decision. Yes, we are ready to submit a separate draft decision specifically for Lukoil. However, we ask that the proposal we have made be put to the vote. If it is not accepted, we can immediately submit our own draft decision, which will, however, postpone the vote on precisely such a committee over time. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u95	Thank you, Professor Slavov. Delyan Dobrev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It seems to me that we are moving away from the subject of a solution that we are proposing because it concerns only the "Bulgargas" and gas supplies. After the backdrop of colleague Slavov, I am even more hesitant to support this supplement because it seems to me that this is being done, by the way, in order to cover up this scandal. You're doing it, by the way, on some committee, let's just go over it in a hurry, knock it over, don't have time to see the real facts and circumstances. There is no way you can expect a commission with a completely different subject of activity, with two meetings scheduled with more than four directors, employees of services and so on, who need to provide clarification on the gas case, to deal very seriously and purposefully with the problems with oil and the price of petrol and diesel in Bulgaria. That is, colleagues, it seems to me that by insisting on voting on this committee to be dealt with and this issue, you are trying to cover it up, you are trying to hide the truth and push it through, by the way, into the gas issue, to look at it quickly at one or two meetings, if possible, what is going on there in Lukoil and on two, on three, to close it down with two paragraphs in the gas report. So, colleagues, this attitude is not serious. I refer again to Mr. Slavov, if he is willing to submit this draft decision today. I am sure that not only I, but the entire GERB group will support it, because we were the first to raise this topic a few days ago for the price of fuel, and why with cheaper oil, at 10%, come on not 10, and 5% cheaper oil on international exchanges than in 2012, fuel is 30% more expensive? Oil is 5% cheaper, and the fuel is 30% more expensive where are these 35% going, colleagues? I don't take the budget, I can assure you of that, because the VAT is the same, the excise duty and it is the same. That is to say, as much as the State has been taking the year 2012, as the State is now taking. However, someone takes 35% and you want the investigation, let's not call it an investigation, because we are Parliament, but the hearing on the subject, the consideration of who takes 35% more than the price of gasoline, diesel and every Bulgarian citizen, to pass it, by the way, to the Commission, which will explore another topic related to gas purchases. The only thing in common is that in both cases it's probably some kind of scam. But let the deals, the individual deals, be dealt with by separate committees. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. There's no line from Mr. Ivanov. Ivo Atanasov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will vote against Mr. Slavov's proposal, not because this problem does not exist with Lukoil. I will vote against Mr. Slavov's proposal because we will extend the scope for which the Commission was created and nothing will be done in either direction or in the other. Today we extend the deadline by one month. Colleagues have received the materials that are quite bulky, and for me this is a purely political PR from the DB, to say: here we propose, and for example, the ICN does not want to investigate the things that are going on in Lukoil. Consult him in advance with the coalition partners, we can agree whether the subject of this committee will be expanded or a new committee will be formed, for we are, but do not do so. I will propose a temporary committee tomorrow to examine the failing temporary committee for constitutional changes. I assume you'll back me up. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u99	Is there a second line? I won't. To speak, Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there is no economic rational explanation why, as Russian oil trades at a serious discount, fuel prices in Bulgaria have increased so much. Interestingly, there are no other proposals for verification of this case outside the proposal of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. There are many speeches, most of them emotional, but there is no other proposal put on the table. It's not right to make a separate committee on every case. This particular committee has only one subject so far and it is a gas test. They can safely do two checks for gas and oil, if they want to do the work to the end, they can do it perfectly. It's okay for two checks to be carried out, and otherwise we have to have a separate gas commission separate for oil, and tomorrow, if there is a third power commission, then a fourth, a fifth, and that makes a lot. Moreover, colleagues, colleagues who have already worked on checking the gas sector, this is energy, they have gained knowledge, experience and contacts and with a flying start will start the second part of the inspection that concerns oil. Colleagues, we are maintaining our proposal and I believe that the Commission can be extremely successful in its work. For example, we also insist on the fact that her President, colleague Daniel Mitov, is to meet the representative of the state in Lukoil, why didn't he, for example, write reports, so is my question addressed to the Minister of Energy, ask him why there are no reports for the relevant years, who appointed him, why did this happen? All these questions can be clarified and the most important question that people ask us every day and there is no answer why fuel prices have increased more given the price of oil traded at a serious discount. An economically serious answer here so far has not been given by anyone. Dear colleagues, the sensible and rational thing is that this committee has two things to do, and you know that the usual committees are looking at 10, 20, 30 things and we are dealing with it, colleagues. So don't tell me that a Commission two issues cannot be addressed, and besides, again, tomorrow you will say that there should be a Electricity Commission, it will be the third, then for water fourth and so on, and this is not good, it is not a rational approach. Let us not look for excuses and finally remind you that there is only one proposal, and this is the proposal of the Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) there are no other proposals for verification of the oil sector. I hope that, in plenary, colleagues, you will vote for and start working on this issue tomorrow, and the other is a postponement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The first line is from Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you were not correct in your speech, colleague. You said there was no initiative regarding high fuel prices, which does not correspond to the increase in international oil markets, that there were no proposals made by GERB, and I will remind you last week's meeting, Mr. Dimitrov, in the Committee on Economic Policy, where there was a proposal in the Law on Protection of Competition. Mr. Dimitrov, I thought we would reach a consensus with you and with our colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" and perhaps with another part of the ruling majority, in which the proposal aimed precisely to find this toolbox in the Commission for Protection of Competition to be able to investigate precisely such unjustified increases, which are not based on economic logic. Colleague, you did not then allow my proposal with your vote and some of the government even to be considered and included in the Report at second reading. That is why the proposal you are making today is what my colleague Slavov did, and I don't think this is where he belongs. The colleague Dobrev also stated what we believe will be supported to be created a separate commission to really investigate the price of the column and the price of the fuels produced in Lukoil. You said that we do not know why the price of oil has risen, and I think that you as governors should be aware of what you are talking about and your ministers are speaking, and what messages come out of the Council of Ministers and I will give you just one example of how in the last two weeks the price of the columns and the totems that are monitored at the gas stations with 25 Did you notice, fellow governors? It certainly did, but Mr. Dimitrov, tell me, is this not exactly the same as the period when the ruling majority announced that it will compensate all Bulgarian citizens, including those with cars for 200 thousand. BGN, and those with the 2,000 cars. lv. With 25 pennies from the state budget again. It made an interesting impression to me that maybe this went directly into the price of gasoline and diesel, this promise of compensation. Here, too, you should think about when you have management decisions and what communication comes out of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line from Delyan Dobrev. Third line from Vladimir Marinov. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u104	Mr. Dimitrov, I disagree with you that you are the first to make this proposal, not because someone else beat you to it and is first, but because it is not any proposal. A proposal for an amendment to another committee here, from the hall, is only so the subject can pass by the way and tuck itself in. Again, once again, my impression is that you are trying to hide the truth, not show it. A proposal means that your group should gather, who of you would, of course, like to sign a proposal for a committee of limitations, in which it would indicate reasons in which to give an analysis of what is happening in this market, why does it want it, who will listen to it, how long will this committee last, how will this committee end with proposals for measures, with a signal to the DANS and the prosecution? This is a serious attitude towards Parliament's work, Mr. Dimitrov. And one more thing, you don't even have to make a proposal here in Parliament. You've been in charge for six months now. Why don't you take action? Why fuel costs 35% more and here you are the first to think of this problem, given that you are managing and in your mandate the fuels are 35% more expensive than the same oil price in 2012, with the same excise duty and the same VAT. Don't set up committees, or if it's a committee, at least it's a committee. But instead of trying at the Gas Commission to beat the subject with the Fuel Commission, you are not honored. If the majority has, however, decided that the Gas Commission should also deal with the issue of oil, at least extend the deadline by three months, so that we can at least listen to some of the people who are concerned about this issue, because in one month, doing everything together is quite unserious. But, Mr. Dimitrov, there is no need to talk about the parliamentary tribune. He needs action from the government and the ruling coalition. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u105	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. And the third line, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u106	Thank you, Lord Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I would like to stress once again that it is not a bad idea to analyse all the facts and circumstances concerning the price of oil and the situation around Lukoil Neftohim. Moreover, perhaps you know more precisely the answer, if I am not mistaken the privatization of Lukoil Neftohim was carried out precisely by Mr. Kostov's government. The privatization of the Maritsa East 1s and the Maritsa East 3s, for which we will also insist to analyse all the facts and circumstances, was also carried out by this same government with the same prime minister. Let's not share it with who privatized what, but when we're going to check it out, let's do it right. And it's not so scary to set up committees. The question is the result of their work to be what society ultimately expects. You know there's a fairy tale if you don't want it done, let's set up a committee. If you want the committee set up not to do any work, load it with the maximum responsibilities. So let's not dwindle the matter anymore and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. For the coat, Mr. Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u108	My fellow Members, I have learned from all the lines that the subject was very important. Everyone said the topic is very important. But they said, don't look at it in this committee, make another committee, that is, if we can slow it down. Otherwise it is very important, said all colleagues. It's very dramatic, it's very important, but let's not rush into it, if there's any other committee we have yet to set up from here on out. Why coworkers? You are worried that one committee cannot discuss two topics, two energy topics in one committee. One committee can't look at two energy issues, that's what this is about. He can if he wants, he can, coworkers. Yes, if necessary, let the deadline be extended, but perhaps it won't be necessary. Let it be this term, if you need an extension, this will be done. On Mr. Ivanov's line. Mr. Ivanov, you said about those who did not understand the context, the following thing: that the KPC does not currently have the authority to investigate such price anomalies. Except we think there is. And that the problem is somewhere else. The problem is, when such a commission does an on-the-spot check per year, whatever powers it has, Mr. Ivanov, it's not gonna happen, you know. It's not gonna be simple. It's not about powers, it's about working. By the way, we are working on a concrete very meaningful bill for more competition in the fuel market, which we will soon present to your attention so that you can see that we are also working in addition to the creation of a committee on the legislative part of the issue. But today, colleagues, in particular, we can make two decisions. I wonder, given that all of you in the Chamber, including the BSP colleague, said that the topic is extremely important, why has no one else proposed the establishment of a committee? Nobody suggested it. There's no such offer. In other words, see what comes out of the only proposal put on the table, you say: "Why today, why now, why do you add a second direction of work to this committee. " - But there is no other idea on the table, no other such proposal. That is, in fact, you are trying not to carry out such an inspection. That's the whole point. Therefore, my fellow Members, I propose that we support the extension of the mandate of the committee in question. It has an energy theme, has every chance to do its job well, add oil, and it starts working tomorrow, I believe with serious success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For your statement, Ramadan Atalay, come in. Then I recorded Daniel Mitov and Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, let's cut the passions a little bit. A month ago, the agenda of the public was to understand why and in what way was the contract stopped with the "Gszprom" and gas supply through intermediaries and what is the price of the gas being delivered at the moment? And the commission aims to have clarity from now on, so that we can explain to our constituents, since we have already diversifyed the gas, how much cheaper gas we will get and from where. That's the idea. Look, colleagues, in a month we've had a hard time getting together to accept the rules. The directors and ministers became tourists and flew from Azerbaijan to America, from America to Azerbaijan. If we do not come up with a report of this committee within one month or within 45 days to explain why we still do not have gas and include in this committee what our colleagues want at the moment - Yes, Bulgaria. This means that this committee will not do its objective - either on the first topic or on the second topic. I would ask you, colleagues, not to use our hatred for one country, because the trade relations and privatisation that have been made since the time of Ivan Kostov, yes, Bulgaria has had the opportunity so far to do everything possible to analyze and privatize, to present to the public the mistakes that were made then, and if there are positive parties, of course, and the positive parties. Moreover, not only Mr. Ivan Kostov, I remember Mr. Martin Dimitrov, who is currently seeking to become President of the Commission on Protection of Competition, was Chairman since 2015 and of the Committee on Energy. And I'm wondering now that you are proposing from 2015 to look at the activities of an enterprise, a Bulgarian enterprise, when you have managed this period of time. Who do you doubt about yourself?! I beg you very much, colleagues. In this room, there's a lot of bullshit going on, so let's hope we don't do another stupid thing. Let us, Mr. Chairman, vote, extend the deadline and do so because I understand from Mr. Slavov that we are in a very hurry, because the time of parliament was very short, so I understood to include this committee, and in this committee the investigation of Lukoil. If you intend to terminate the activities of the National Assembly, then let's stop this committee. But it is better, as recorded in the Commission, the subject of activity is very serious, the materials are very serious. You should know that the first materials we received, especially from the point of view of stopping delivery, are a flash drive that may be 24 hours to read them, one will not have enough time. My request is that everyone be humbled. Let's leave the hate. Let's leave the little games of how and how to interfere with what we're about to do. Let this committee do its work with the gas and then, if you want not only for Lukoil, you can also submit a commission for the forests because the institutions in this country are hard to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines to Mr. Atali? I won't. The next statement is by Mr. Daniel Mitov. Here you go, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u112	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I thank my fellow Members who have spoken so far in terms of supporting the extension of the Commission's work. You know, we've had enough material. There are indeed many, as Mr. Ramadan Atalay mentioned, and we need to hold several more hearings so that we can accumulate enough information on the basis of which to write the report. We've got plenty of time. We just need a little more time. Secondly, Mr. Dimitrov, the first thing the ruling majority did was to close down the State Oil Company, which was actually created not to regulate the market in any way through gas stations, but through a storage facility, where the key is, in fact, why the market is monopolised at the moment and why the prices are what they are. That one. Secondly, neither do we want there to be a delay in the committee you are proposing, because I think it is also nice to set up a separate committee to deal with the issue of oil, and neither do we want to delay such a type of work, nor do we want to postpone it, nor do we want anything to remain hidden. And I would even suggest that we include more to the subject of the work of this committee and the question why the current government proposed Bulgaria to obtain a derogation on the imports of Russian oil? Why Bulgaria is one of the few countries in the European Union, along with Hungary apropo, which is an exception to sanctions against Russian oil imports. This is a very important issue and it is directly related to Lukoil and to the things that you talked about. And I think you'll support it, I'm convinced. So I propose, as the other colleagues have suggested before me, that we set up a separate committee, that the same people come in, no problem, the question is that we create a separate committee, which will individually examine itself in an orderly, clear way, focus on this topic and come out with the relevant report, as we will do this time with the already established temporary committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u113	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u114	Mr. Mitov, you have put forward a very important argument that seems to me that has not been made clear to the House. You mentioned the State Oil Company and mentioned that its goal was not to build gas stations, but to increase competition in the fuel market in Bulgaria. However, this did not become clear. Well, how? And I'll tell you how. Mr. Dimitrov will surely be able to confirm that this is the case. One of the main obstacles to the entry of more companies into the fuel market in Bulgaria is that they have no warehouses, no tax warehouses to store the required reserves. This State Oil Company would build such warehouses and give them to anyone who wants to meet the conditions of the law, store fuel and import fuel to Bulgaria. By the way, I accidentally talked to one of these companies and they said, well, we can't import because there's nowhere to store it. Those who store in the warehouses do not allow others to store there so as not to make them competitive in the fuel market in Bulgaria. And what did the current government do, which supposedly fought a lot for competition? Well, this company shut it down. Shut it down! Make sure that there are no such warehouses in the future, no one can enter to compete with Lukoil here on this market, so that Lukoil can get us 35% higher price, at the same price of oil 10 years ago. And I'll repeat that today, if I have to, 100 times in this room, so that all my colleagues can hear me. In 2012, the price of oil is the same, lower actually, five dollars lower, the excise duty is the same, the VAT is the same, the fuel is 30% cheaper. Totally 35% pay more today at a lower oil price than in 2012, and one of the reasons is that you closed down the State Oil Company. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u115	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, but you have no boundaries at all. I would be ashamed, it would not be an exaggeration to use slang after the smashed, sank, burned money of the Bulgarian taxpayers for this adventure you call the State Oil Company. And in the whole exhibition the colleague began that the plan was with state warehouses, they regulated prices, not a chain of gas stations. I remember very well because I was in this room, you announced a plan to find 100 state gas stations at least. You created this company, invested tens of millions of money to the Bulgarian taxpayers and became a big nothing. As with the renovation of the dams, as with many other things, this is just another big nothing from GERB. And now to go out and say, naturally, in the style of Borisov, who says: "I, when I was in charge, was just how much gas, now is just how much gasoline, do you understand? Because this is the reason that Borisov, if he ruled us and there wouldn't be a war, and there wouldn't be a crisis, and inflation wouldn't be... If Borisov were in power, everything would be the same, we would have 10 other state-owned companies to siphon hundreds of millions of government money. This company was closed because it had neither expert capacity nor any physical and factual ability to regulate and influence the market. It was another black bank of GERB, in which some people absorbed some money, and the result for the budget was this. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.)...................................................................................).......................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u117	Third line, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! You have heard the serious arguments of colleague Dobrev. He says so: "In these oil prices, fuel prices are abnormally high. " - Well, that's right, Mr. Dobrev. Why don't you want to make a committee to check what's going on? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You're absolutely right. And knowing this thing, you should have said: "Yes, there is a big problem, you are right colleagues. We will support because we see a big case here and immediately a committee needs to be set up to start an inspection. What do you say: "There is a big problem, a serious case, give nothing to do. " - That's what you are telling us. It's a very big case. We suggest nothing be done. But we know that with nothing, it's not a good option. To pay attention to the State Oil Company, colleagues, the State Oil Company with a budget of 50 million a year at the beginning, had to build state gas stations. I specifically made a reference and it showed that Bulgaria per capita ranks first in the European Union on the number of gas stations. That's not the problem. And the colleagues from GERB were on their way to make new state gas stations, which obviously cannot solve the issue. It's about the tax and tax warehouses. Colleagues, you know, and colleague Dobrev knows that I am the person that I have raised this topic tens and hundreds of times, even I have made a key proposal: the warehouses to declare stocks to the Ministry of Finance, which turned out that in the Law on excises and tax warehouses during the previous cabinet has been modified in the following way, there is no regularity given to them an opportunity to declare it wherever it falls. The check we did showed that some had websites, some had telephones, some had a guard who had something to say on the subject, which means you had a lot of time for this reform. If you wanted to have government warehouses to access a competitive base, colleagues, in 12 years you should have done it. The fact that it hasn't been done in 12 years means [[the President signals that time has run out]] that you were reluctant to do the job, but, colleagues, I add to our arguments, the arguments of my colleague Dobrev, is absolutely right: these oil prices cannot be fuel prices. So if you don't accept our arguments, listen to his and support us to set up immediately a committee to work on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u119	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Mitov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u120	Thank you, Madam President. To Mr. Dimitrov. You're right, Mr. Dimitrov. We need to set up a committee on what we propose, not expand the scope of the work of the current committee. We need to set up another committee, and we have told you that we will not only support the establishment of such a committee, we will support it immediately, we have a desire and everything else. That's one. Secondly, when we talk about setting up a warehouse, if your assessment is that because it wasn't created, that's why fuel prices are such at the moment, why did you shut down the State Oil Company and not use it to continue the work of setting up this warehouse? Because the closure of the State Oil Company was a purely lobbying act in favor of Lukoil. Mr. Bojankov, we have a sentimental relationship with Lukoil we don't have, you have, to... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria, applause from GERB-SDS.]] So that's the reality. If anyone wanted to do the job and set up the warehouse in question, they could have done it through the State Oil Company in question, not shut it down. Mr. Dimitrov, propose the establishment of a temporary committee to investigate these issues, we will support it, but I will once again repeat the condition for which I will personally insist that we examine the topic why the current Bulgarian government has requested derogations for Bulgaria, exceptions for Bulgaria for imports of Russian oil, provided that all Europe has sanctioned imports of Russian oil? Because this is once again a step in favor of Lukoil, which seems like an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u121	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. The first one for the procedure is Mr. Atanasov, the second one is Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u122	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. We have a proposal for an extension of the Commission's term, a proposal from SG for a point. 5 and 6 to include Lukoil. Since Slavov is talking about procedural economy, about wasting parliamentary time, we have been practicing for the Oil Company for an hour and a half about other nonsense related to Lukoil. We don't mind having a separate committee. Everything that has happened over the years, everything that is happening now, to be checked, but let us focus on voting on these two points if we extend the deadline, if Slavov's proposal is accepted, and no longer practice speaking and political PR.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u123	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov. For a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u124	Yeah. Madam President, you did not comment on my colleague Mitov when he addressed me with his words that I had some emotional connection with Lukoil. It is not acceptable to make such a suggestion from the stand, Madam President, because in my day, either I did not manage when GERB managed when Lukoil did not pay taxes. An emotional connection though, Mr. Mitov, there can only be a person, and people, and a party that, personally with its company, was guarding the pipes of Lukoil. Such a person and such a party, and such people can have an emotional connection to..Lukoil. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria, replica by the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u125	Thank you for the procedure, Mr. Bojankov. Since you have addressed me, I would like to tell you that Mr. Mitov did not address you personally, but addressed the parliamentary group. [[(Reply from the National Representative Daniel Mitov: It wasn't personal!]] Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I guess I just didn't get it. I asked you to stop emotions, I asked you to stop wasting parliamentary time and move on to action. The main thing I wanted was to let this committee go to work on the subject, on the subject of its activities. Very please, those who came out here and threw fireworks to turn on the t. 5, 6, let them submit a proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee for the consideration of the privatization in 2015 until now for the activities of Lukoil. The movement for rights and freedoms will be the first to support them. You must expect us to bring it in again. Wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u127	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any other procedures? We continue with Mr. Ivanov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u128	Madam President, honourable Members! I was a little surprised by the length of the debate. I'll tell you why, colleagues? There is a draft decision, but to extend the duration of a Temporary Commission. A Temporary Commission, colleagues, who have made numerous public information and energy experts comment, to answer why a decision of the government of the Council of Ministers or some companies has stopped the supply of gas by one supplier and there is an intermediate unit with the same gas, which is used in Bulgarian households and businesses, only with one condition, colleagues, already at 30% higher price. This is the subject in one form or another, to develop in this committee and to come up with a report. I am surprised that the colleagues from the majority responsible from "Democratic Bulgaria" decided to water the debate by bringing in an essential and important topic why the price of fuels, as first of GERB, were 35% more without changing the stock price, without changing the excise duty, without changing the VAT Bulgarian citizens paid 35% more? However, fellow Members, now here to be blamed for the first time, I am seeing perhaps something like this in the Chamber, the ruling authorities, arguing with the opposition. But, colleagues, offer it. It's an important question for the price of gas, but you can't put it on us. We continue the Change. I didn't hear them speak once. Don't you guys talk to each other? Six months hasn't changed... There's been a change, unfortunately, negative, you don't have a management program. Put those dots in it. Colleagues, I appeal to you. The ranks of the Change have been aligned, be consistent, colleagues, insert such a draft solution, but do not blurt out the Commission, which was created to examine the thirty percent of missionaries, interrogators, the cost of gas. Keep in mind, colleagues, we're looking at a budget next week. You guys, if you don't talk to each other, it's not a good indicator. Let us vote on the draft decision, and I am sure that we, or you, who put in such a draft decision, and the BSP will support it, surely and there is such a people. However, the government cannot argue with the opposition that they are not doing anything. It's a precedent. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u130	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, I have no intention of scolding you, but I will take a brief reply, rather addressed to a large part of the statements of your party members, and in particular to Mr. Delyan Dobrev, who almost declared himself a defender of the competition in the fuel market. I'll remind you. In 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In July, a bill was submitted by one of your later ministers Emil Dimitrov, who was named by many as lobbyist for the benefit of the monopoly and limiting the small traders of fuel in Bulgaria, for which you voted then for and accepted the month of July 2018. Separately, I agree with some things Mr. Dobrev says, but keep in mind that you know best that this lowest excise duty in Bulgaria, which is, it is over 10 years old, and during this time I have done a lot of analyses and when the rates of excise duty and VAT are removed, you know very well that in Bulgaria the fuels were in the top 3 before the rates in Europe. I didn't see anything you could do about market liberalisation and fix the tax warehouse situation, the reserve warehouses. So that's what I wanted to replicate, short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u131	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you go for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, do you know why this is the length of the debate? Because this ruling majority, which came to power with a request to stop the inhouse, is currently trying to sabotage the next item on the agenda so it doesn't pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u133	Thank you, Mr. Nestorov. Third line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u134	Actually, Mr. Ivanov, you're wrong! They don't want to understand what's going on in the fuel market, they want to sink the topic into the gas because you see that we here for 45 minutes are talking about the price of gasoline and diesel, and in fact the point of this point is that there are some intermediaries who are loading the price of gas by 30% and we are paying only for May 100 million more than we should have paid. So in order not to talk about the 100 million, today we were thrown at these fifth and sixth points, so that, on the one hand, two birds with one stone and the price of gasoline, and the diesel, we could beat them around the other committee, and not hear who stole the 100 million from the gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Ivanov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u136	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleagues replicating, in order of numbers. Mr. Simeonov, I did not blame your parliamentary group, I blamed my colleagues from the ruling majority at the right hand of the House for trying to argue with the House, given that they do have a legislative initiative, they also have a majority, they have ministers, and a large part of their promises remain words in the space are not materialized. Colleague Nestorov, I hope to be the last to speak on this subject, because you are right, the entire campaign that has been going on the ruling majority at the moment was on how bad the inhouse procedure in the Public Procurement Act is. When I look at Minister Karadjov also says that it is being worked on the roads will be built on it, and this is the only such procedure, so they one by one the election promises and the agitations find their place. Mr. Dobrev, I absolutely agree, that is what I said in my main statement. These 100 million, which are sinking out of the pocket of the Bulgarian citizen and of the Bulgarian business, which are evaporated, colleagues, today are not the subject of a debate, namely: this commission we created is to investigate precisely the deals in the gas intermediaries. So, fellow Members, knowing that there are also those in Lukoil, you have submitted another proposal to the Commission, we will support. But we want to investigate this committee to come up with proposals, opinions, conclusions based on facts and hearings, as far as I hear, many materials have come to the Commission, to extend its duration and to see where this 100 million per month goes. It's definitely in some middleman's pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u138	Madam President, at least an hour has already happened, we are commenting on something that does not belong at all, we have lost an hour of parliamentary time. Almost all parliamentary parties have become represented, with the exception of We continue the Change, to explain what they have caused.. Democratic Bulgaria.......with their proposal to put into one extremely difficult committee the topic of............................................................................. We have all said and said that this topic is important enough to have a separate committee, to look at everything, but a committee not like for constitutional changes that are stillborn, but to be really active. We are currently discussing things that are very clear. Mr. Dimitrov took the liberty of explaining that he had never done anything before. Excuse me, you manage six months before this, with little exceptions, this Council of Ministers is ruling for another six months. Where is the government for six months to do everything they can for tax warehouses, for checks, for taxes for everything, for absolutely everything? Can't the finance minister challenge whatever he decides to check and do whatever it takes to end this thing that you want to set up a committee for right now?! You can, absolutely can, but you need willpower. It doesn't work with making a temporary committee to look at something that will eventually come up with a report that will sink. Because a month has passed since the Committee for Investigation was established why Bulgaria stopped buying gas from Russia after a decision of the Council of Ministers, on which this thing was voted, and this committee has not decided anything for a number of reasons. You want to do something even more paradoxical to bring an even bigger topic into this committee. I would remind you that when this committee is voted on to be set up, we have introduced and proposed that the committee be three months away and have a much wider scope. It was you from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria who voted against it. Where exactly is demagogy and when exactly are you sincere you from the "Democratic Bulgaria"?! Now or then? Now, when you rule for half a year with this government and do nothing to stop the outrage you announce by yourself from Lukoil, or when half a year you have not taken even minimal steps to solve the problem of excise warehouses? When are you being sincere? Or, as one DPS representative has said, you are most likely to be the next President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, or I do not know whether that is the case anymore. There's absolutely nothing wrong with it. The question is who is sincere and what wants to achieve, because everyone here in this Parliament now said they would support the establishment of such a committee and we would have already created it. Bring him in so the Commission can start working. But more importantly, what does the government do? Why not solve the problem that you want here Parliament to solve? When some things are transferred, it is announced that Parliament should not interfere in the work of the executive authority, but what does the executive authority do in this case? Absolutely nothing of what GERB was doing. Did they do the tax warehouse procedures? No. Did you do it? Exactly the same. That's why we say: you and your majority are very much of the same. There is no difference between you and them. None at all! On the contrary, your coalition leads the moral decay with it. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there any lines to Mr. Ganev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u140	Colleagues, reading is not necessary, but in most cases helps. [[Radio by "Democratic Bulgaria".]] There are cases where it can lead to a complication of the situation, but it is often a great help to the people's representative. For example, the Chairman of the KPC, honourable colleague Ganev, should be a lawyer by education. If you've read it, you know, if you haven't read it, you don't know, and you say things that aren't true. So get acquainted with these facts. My line, of course, is to Mr. Ganev, to give him the following attention. A big problem was the last years that, instead of creating more competition, GERB adopted a law against small gas stations, a topic on which we fought for years. So they tried to destroy the small gas stations, creating high demands, restrictions for them, that was the huge problem. Instead of more competition, they wanted less competition. And you know, there's not a single solution in the fuel market, there's a series of measures that can be taken together. Life and health, soon we will have a bill of more competition on which we are working.................................................................................. Life and health, soon we must have a new KPC to be elected by this National Assembly to be strong, working, engaging with the facts. More competition needs to be created within the tax warehouses and there are ideas on how to work. But the truth is, until yesterday, there was no will in the matter. Now there are good ideas that need to be turned into actions, but Bulgarian citizens, dear colleague Ganev, ask you every day: why is this Russian oil trading at a 30-40% discount and are such fuel prices. Didn't they ask you to set up a committee there, how did you vote? You will say: I did not support because I told these colleagues that the topic is important, but to set up a separate committee. If something is important, what is the problem of starting to work on it today? Yes, we will submit a separate decision for a separate committee if necessary, but there is no problem, honourable Members, this committee to look at two things. It's about two things, people, not 20. It's two things! For two things! Maybe it'll work for two things. One thing is why the gas was turned off? That can be clarified in three days if they want to. If you ask me, the fuel issue is much bigger and much more serious, so if you want to, we'll sort it out one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u141	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Second line to Tsoncho Ganev from Delyan Dobrev. [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u142	Mr. Ganev, you're right, if they wanted to, at this hour they would have submitted the proposal for a separate committee, they would have proposed an emergency item on the agenda, the whole room would have voted for and we would have created the other committee today to deal with this particular issue. Except that's not what they want! They do not want to have a separate committee to write a separate report, which within one, two, three months, as necessary, to examine this issue, this market, to say why we pay 35% more oil than we have to pay, and they want to cover up the truth about who took the 100 million, as it is several times, in May. In May, some intermediaries filled their pockets with 100 million, and this is the subject that needs to be hidden. That's why all these exercises from the plenary tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u143	Thank you. Is there a third line to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Here you are for the duplicate, Mr. Ganev, and then for procedure Emil Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u144	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Dimitrov, before giving advice on who to read and who not to read, it is good to listen to what is said in this room, not to go through your computer or phone. Mr. Atalay said you were voted the new chairman of the committee in question. With regard to the Commission, I'm sorry, you seem to be forgetting. A few months ago, your majority changed rules, procedures, criteria for choosing the head of the KEWRC. It is not a problem for your majority if you have agreed..... if I say again, you should be set up and put there. So, come on, let's be honest, for once your coalition has come out and spoken the truth. Tell the truth, you don't have to, it won't hurt. Yes, Ivan Kostov sold Lukoil. Yes, Ivan Kostov could have, and the government, not personally, carried out lustration a long, long time ago. Yes, Ivan Kostov could have changed the Constitution as well as not doing the temporary committee at the moment, which does not sit at all and has no intention of meeting. All these things come out and say them, maybe you'll feel better. Say: yes, six months our government has changed absolutely nothing about the tax warehouses, we have done nothing. And now, I quote you: we will make some legislative changes and someday, in a wishful thinking, perhaps if you are approved by your other coalition partners. We all know how these things work in your coalition, so it's not up to you to decide something to import and import, but someone might be against your coalition. So, with the exception of the Change Continue, we all said that this committee, which you want to shove into another big committee, is extremely important and must be created to see why there are these overestimates, why do we end up paying 30% more when buying gas, why does Lukoil sell at such prices? But more importantly, the finance minister has to take steps today or yesterday to investigate these things, because he can, he has all the resources. Look, there is an unwritten law: the weakest state is stronger than the strongest mafia. In this case, and this weakest country of ours, which has never been so weak, is much stronger than Lukoil and can do miracles, but has no desire. And you, as a majority, do nothing in this direction, only speak from this tribune, call on you to bring one topic into another subject and kill it. Here, you have been told several times what amounts are involved, which deviate and are not profited by the state. On the contrary, we have huge costs more, but you do not comment on that. More than one hour you comment to insert something you want into another committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For procedure Emil Georgiev. After that speech by Radomir Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! A topic that should not have caused any tension at first glance, if we had voted by now, we would have forgotten. However, the more we talk, the more the topic becomes tragic. I would like to give another proposal to the expansion of this committee.. to start dealing with the circumstances why Bulgaria's football team lost to Georgia by 2:5? And I guess the football people in this room will accept it. So far, it's not serious. Let us stop and vote because we have a very important work to do in the committees this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u147	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Cholakov, come in. Then Ivaylo Mirchev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'd like to try to be the last in the discussion, but I guess that's not gonna happen. I really can't understand the colleagues from DB who actually initiated this debate with their proposals. So, colleagues, by standing by and listening, I'm making two conclusions, meaning why is this happening right now? Obviously thousands of arguments were given as to why the oil topic is very important, very deep and very aspective. All arguments were given to justify the establishment of a separate committee. And if you don't want a separate committee to be set up, and you insist on extending the subject of this committee, which is currently dealing with the price of gas, this for me has two explanations, or you really deliberately want to block the work of the gas commission, or it is, as it is very often in this room, about ego, about human ego, because I have made one proposal, I want it to be accepted because I have done it and I want it to be. So either way, it's a mistake, either way, it's not good behavior. Again, either you want to block the Commission, or you just need to accept a proposal right now because it's done and someone wants to brush their egos. Give me another explanation, please. I don't mind having a debate, by the way. I do not share the view that has been shared by some colleagues that parliamentary time has been wasted. On the contrary, I consider myself to this part of the MPs who think that Parliament is a place of speech, and I think it is good to talk, because at least where we are called, we meet, we see our points of view, we see who thinks and we can ultimately isolate those with the terrible ego. Let's finally isolate these people because we're becoming hostages. I said, I want it and I want it, and you're gonna give it to me. That's one thing I wanted to say. Please, really, it is obvious that we already have a Gas Commission, let us extend its mandate, and I will vote with both hands on having an oil commission separately, precisely because of the huge circle of problems that have arisen there. And the second thing I want to say in this regard is that I am really glad that the issue of oil has been raised to see how deep the problems there are and how many questions we have to answer. And here I want to say two things in two points on the oil topic. First of all, colleagues, I say it because I think I have a right to say it. I am tired of GERB being blamed just so that we can say something about GERB. Give, when we get out here, we can talk about something, but give, by the way, something about GERB to offend them once again. The state oil company, when GERB in the previous government said it would do it, I was an ordinary citizen, I honestly told you, I was happy. I was happy as a citizen, I was happy because there was a crack in the dominant economic thought until then. And I think the BSP colleagues should have appreciated it. You know very well that we have a dominant economic concept in recent years, which will be imposed if the market is going to blow up, if it is going to destroy everything, the invisible hand in the market will destroy it and the state must be helpless, the state must be defeated and there are no mechanisms to stop it, and to ban it from stopping it was the State Oil Company. And I was genuinely surprised when I saw here that BSP people wanted it to be closed, although they should want to develop it. Others who want to be closed are clear why they want to be closed down either because of ideology or because the state cannot regulate in this way. There's only two reasons again. The cat has to catch mice! The cat must catch mice, and if the white cat has stopped hunting mice, the black cat must come or vice versa. That's how I understand economic theories, that's how I understand them. There are cycles, there are historical periods, there are economic periods, we have all studied it and we know that there is no single economic model. Why didn't GERB think of it sooner? I'm sorry, but what kind of accusation is this? Well, because there are economic cycles, economic periods, there is time to scatter stones, there is time to collect stones. The time has come. Then the time has come. Why did you shut it down? In order to be able to say: but they GERB made it late, well, they made it late, if it's good, just keep it going. These thoughts I wanted to share with you, again in the context of the conversation to share thoughts and exchange them. I ask you very much, really, let us vote, this is what everyone is now calling for, to extend the mandate of the Gas Commission, and I say again, with two hands, I will vote for an oil commission with all its aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u149	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Are there any lines to Radomir Cholakov? There is. Georgi Svilenski, Atanas Mihnev and Delyan Dobrev. Colleagues, maybe this way we won't get there by 2:00 to run out of item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Cholakov! The bad thing is that you didn't understand why this State Oil Company was made, and there was nothing wrong with it if everything you thought was in the heads of your colleagues at the previous National Assemblys when it was established, respectively, in the then Council of Ministers. It was created in order to be another company, it was not created to intervene the state, it was not created to correct the prices, it was not created to return the state to the oil business. It was set up to be another company that would drain the state budget and which from some banks with bags of money would be exported without knowing where. That's why you made it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u151	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go, Mr. Mihnev. I urge you, fellow Members, to stick to the subject of the discussion. A lot of opinions have been heard, which, of course, is always good. Here you go, Mr. Mihnev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Cholakov! I very much welcome that we are talking about an economy of this tribune, although it should be mentioned that GERB's economic genius to create a State Oil Company is ordering us to right-wing countries and free countries such as Venezuela, but to speak with today's date. The question is raised about the increase in the price of gasoline. This is your favorite theme why the gasoline has climbed 35%, and I am very uncomfortable, but I will have to agree with the analysis of colleagues economists from GERB. They very precisely said it. The raw material has not increased, the excise duty has not changed, the VAT has not changed, the business itself has not changed. Then why is the price going up? Well, it looks like the price is going up because the traders are putting on a higher trade mark-up. Some such companies, such as Saxe Oil, Insa Oil and the like, and here comes the question whether there is a regulator at these prices? Well, yeah, there is and it's called KPC. Where's the CDC? Bulgaria has a regulator. Why do you need a state oil company that we beat anyway?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u153	Mr. Mihnev, another terminology, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u154	You have the Commission for Protection of Competition. Yes, I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u155	We're closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u156	We shut down the State Oil Company. Where did we get him? Whatever we get to change, we get to some regulator, some comic book, the subcommittee. You've got a problem with the election, go to the CEC, you've got a problem with oil, go to the CDC, you've got a problem with energy prices, go to the KEWRC. And all these independent regulators, committees and subcommittees appointed in GERB's mandate. Dear colleagues, the situation I will still take the liberty of quoting colleague Petrov: I have a man in DSK, I have a first dig at the DNC, I have a man in BCC, I have a man in Shell, and in OMW. Please answer me, colleagues from GERB, where is KPC? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u157	The weather, Mr. Mihnev. Colleagues, please order in the court. I would like to ask for comments on the subject that there are some 15 minutes left. Here's a third line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u158	Mr. Cholakov, they didn't understand what this State Oil Company was about. It is to enable operators who want to import fuels to store in its warehouses because it is one of the requirements of the Law. By the way, this company was created by law, colleagues, and the only thing I can justify is that you haven't read this law is that you closed it, you closed it, there's no such company, why should you read the law? If someone had bothered to read the law, they would see that it can interfere with the fuel market when the fuel is cheap, cost for example 2 leva, this company can buy fuel, store it in the warehouses it operates, and then, when the price is high, sell it. This is what all normal countries do around the world and have done since the beginning of the fuel crisis. Mr. Cholakov, I expected something else from you, and I expected you as a lawyer to tell me, because I am not a lawyer, it does not seem normal to me, but I am not a lawyer, and I cannot claim it here from this tribune, whether you can, in the middle of the work of a committee, without motives, without deliberately proposing to change the subject matter of this committee, provided that the initial item being examined on the agenda is only for an extension of the deadline? That is, without reason to give the Commission quite another meaning over a proposal for an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u159	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Cholakov is for the duplicate and then Mr. Ganev for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Svilenski, colleagues from GERB reminded me, who were in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, that BSP voted for the creation of the Oil Company, even your MPs, which I would not like to quote by name because I was not a witness, said: Bravo to GERB. He picked up on one of our ideas. [[(Reply from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski:]] So I don't understand the alumnus you're saying was a bad idea. For the second time, I think I have to say, colleagues, that legal entities themselves are not wrong. They don't commit crimes. Because you say the oil company was created to commit crimes. An oil company can't commit crimes on its own. There are people who can, others won't do them. My question is why didn't you continue the operation of the Oil Company and shut it down? Once again, there are two possible answers.. or because of lobbying interests, for the second you know. Highways, by the way, were also a very bad company that is currently working, right? And on In House contracts continues to work, and on the old contracts concluded by GERB continues to work... I thought it was bad. Why does she keep working? Why didn't you shut her down too? I'm tired of this cynicism, you know? I'm tired of this cynicism! On the KEWRC, you changed his board and would have cut the prices, why didn't you cut them? Now you're saying, this KPC can't do the job, see if we can get the new one, how it's gonna end. No, and the new one's not gonna end. From now on, I'm telling you it's not gonna end. And here again comes the question of other regulatory mechanisms with which the state can intervene in the market. We cannot continue to rely on the regulatory authorities of five members we choose here. Separately, the KPC does not regulate the market and it regulates the monopolies. Finally, the question of Mr. Dobrev, who asked me: is it legally possible in the middle of a commission's work to change its mandate? I'm going back to what I started with, Mr. Dobrev, the ego. Anything can happen. If you're obsessed and if you decide to turn parliament into a rag, do nothing, or do whatever they want, anything can. As you can see, we can make illegal decisions, we can adopt unconstitutional decisions, we can adopt unconstitutional laws because that's the way it is! Because we, Mr. Dimitrov, are in power. It won't take long, I promise. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u161	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. For the procedure Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u162	Mr President, since this point is extremely important and it is important that we decide today to extend the work of the Temporary Commission, we are making a procedural proposal on behalf of the ARCHER Group to extend the working time until the end of this point that we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Is there a reverse opinion? Honourable Members, I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the National Representative Tsoncho Ganev to extend the duration of this meeting until the end of this point of the Programme. They voted 185 MPs: 114, against 12, abstention 59. The motion is accepted. There's one written down for a statement, Ivaylo Mirchev, come in, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We attended today's extremely charming debate, something new for the country, the day GERB found that something under Lukoil was to be investigated, although colleagues... [[Voices from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] There's no way! Although during the whole time of GERB's management, all the time Lukoil has never paid a profit tax, but no one in GERB has guessed that Lukoil is not paying profit tax for so many years. On the contrary, Mr. Boyko Borisov was extremely close to the boss of Lukoil (Lukoil) and the case is a bit like the case of Misho Beer when Borisov called Vanyo Tanov and said: "I am not like Parvanov. When I make a promise, I keep it. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u165	Quiet in the court, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u166	And that is precisely why, today, where the terminal of Lukoil is, it was even difficult for customs officers to enter, and this thing is known very well. But today came the day when, after all the management of GERB "Lukoil" did not pay a profit tax, GERB saw that there was a problem with "Lukoil". It is normal for Lukoil to pay corporate tax, as it did in Romania, for example, or as it happened on the island of Sicily in Italy, where the state, however, does its job. Here, the state served Lukoil. And the best evidence, colleagues, is for this is the representative of the state in Lukoil, the one who holds the gold share, is the same one who served the Russian interests during another government again of Boyko Borisov, who Tricho Traykov had tried to fire him, Mr. Krasimir Parvanov, if you remember. He signed this contract, which is for NPP "Belene" who obliged Bulgaria, colleagues, and Boyko Borisov for some reason thought that this person is a very valuable economic shot, or a person defending the Bulgarian state, so he put it to protect the golden share. And how much did this person, who keeps the gold share, report to the Bulgarian state and the government - zero. [[Relations from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]] During the whole management of GERB, during the whole management of GERB, Lukoil did whatever he wanted, didn't pay his taxes, and today you were suddenly moved by GERB. Colleagues, to see that we are extremely constructive, Mr. Dobrev, to understand that in no way do we want to blam the work of the Gas Commission, but on the contrary, we are withdrawing our proposal now, which was to combine the two objects in the Commission. We are making a new proposal, colleagues, and we hope that you will sign it, keep your word: support us to set up a separate committee. I just hope it doesn't work out like you did with your support for the files. You then said for the files that you would support us, and at the time of the vote, there was a person from GERB in the Chamber and this is very easy to verify. So we come to you now for the signatures and insert the proposal into the National Assembly's Office immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u167	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. The line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u168	Mr. Mirchev, I have just learned from my colleagues that while we were holding the debate in this Chamber, some of our colleagues have signed and already submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for a termal committee, such as you will do, and we will support you tomorrow to enter overtime as the first item on the National Assembly's agenda. I am making this procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman, before you to include it as a first point tomorrow so that we can resolve this issue and see that no one is running away from this subject. Mr. Mirchev, you have said a lot of things here about Misho Beer. It is a light hand, and such other stories from the yellow newspapers, but I did not hear you say why at a more expensive price of oil 2012, petrol and diesel were 35% cheaper? That's what we're talking about. People don't care who played cards with whom or who drank beer with whom, they care why 2012 at more expensive oil petrol was 2.75, and now with cheaper oil the petrol is 3.50? That's what they care about, that's what you say, not about taxes, cards, beer, and I don't know what else, kebabs, and potatoes. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u169	Thanks, Mr. Dobrev. Docent Ivanov for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Mirchev! I have a follow-up question because you were blaming GERB. Well, at the 40th National Assembly, President of the Committee on Economics, Energy and Tourism was again Martin Dimitrov. I would like to ask: why didn't you bring this up then, and now here passionately how nobody, how are you the first and discover the hot water? I want you to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u171	Thank you for that line. Is there a third line to Ivaylo Mirchev? Atanas Mihnev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u172	Dear Mr. Mirchev, for the second time again to try to explain it to colleagues from GERB in case they did not understand. If the price of oil is now lower than 10 years ago, if the work-related costs are exactly the same as 10 years ago, if taxes are the same as 10 years ago, then that means only one thing the traders increase their profit margin. I hope that as economists you understand me, I can draw it for you, if necessary, with the schedule. If traders increase their profit margin, they must be regulated. The regulator is KPC. The KPC is gone, the state is in charge... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u173	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u174	...from the committees and subcommittees appointed by the Forty-fourth National Assembly. It's time for a change and we're moving on. Thank you. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u175	Thank you, Mr. Mihnev. Order, please! For the coat, Mr. Mirchev, come in. I would like to remind you that only one month after the withdrawal of the proposal was left in the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u176	Mr. Ivanov, Martin Dimitrov is one of the most famous wrestlers in terms of Lukoil and tax warehouses. You may have forgotten, however, that the measuring instruments s one of the reasons for having them is exactly Martin Dimitrov, and it is not like he didn't think of this work he did. You have been silent at GERB for so many years, not Martin Dimitrov. It's about Mr. Dobrev who's on the phone. If he wants, I can wait for him to hang up and then answer him, but even if he doesn't want to... And we want to check that out, Mr. Dobrev. Why is the price of Lukoil? I have to tell you that if there was a country and the person in charge of the golden action, Mr. Dobrev, in Lukoil, was doing his job, we would know that answer from him. But he didn't send a report to this country, this government doesn't know what's going on inside, maybe because it's the Russian interests that are being served... And it is good that today GERB is of a different opinion. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u177	Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yordan Tsonev is the first to speak, then Desislava Trifonova. Guys, let's just calm down! I would like to remind you that the only thing left in the discussion was an extension of the term of the current temporary committee by one month. I didn't check for oil. Apparently, there's a proposal. We'll get back to that. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was facilitated by the fact that the proposal was withdrawn, and I even thought of giving up the speech, but still using the occasion that it was my turn to say a few words to the debate today. Two hours is debated on one request to extend the term of the Temporary Commission, which has been made dozens, if not hundreds of times, in all editions of the various parliaments. There is no practice, or at least I don't remember, there may be, but I don't remember a temporary committee being altered by the subject. It was simple to say. Instead, however, the topics that have been debated on the occasion of a period are very indicative. What these topics have shown is that both in the national representation and in society there are issues that this government and this majority do not deal with them. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Have you seen any changes to the KPC Act tabled by the government? There aren't any! With regard to another temporary committee, six months have passed. The work of Lukoil has passed. Here, you said: we will support this committee, there is no problem to create. In front editions of the previous two brief Parliaments there were here 10 or 12 temporary committees. There is nothing wrong with it, let the temporary committees work, let the MPs investigate various cases that concern the activity of society, especially with regard to the economy, the functioning of the economy, competitiveness and so on. You know what this is about? There is no legislative activity on the most pressing problems, and that is why the effectiveness of the work of this National Assembly is so low. We are either dealing with reports three or four months of various committees and reports, or with decisions, or with the creation of new committees, or with debates on a minor occasion, deep debates on certain topics, but not on the subject on which we are currently debating. Which again shows a majority deficit and mostly the government. Where is this famous program on it that needs to be worked?! What law is under this program? What have we changed? If it is about changing the composition of any regulator, it will be submitted immediately to shorten its deadline, to escape European practice, to make at all a bunch of legal, constitutional and non-European practices when it needs to be changed. And when there is essentially a need to change a certain job, there is a deficit in certain laws or legislation, there is no job. It all comes down to this. The KPC doesn't work. Well, did anyone do any forensics on whether or not there were any gaps in the law? Nobody did. If he did, why didn't he submit a proposal? Because it was mainly about the work of Lukoil. Or the NRA's job. Or for the work of the other control bodies dealing not only with the activities of Lukoil, of a bunch of other companies. That is, I most honestly, sincerely and with concern appeal to all to increase the effectiveness of the work of the National Assembly a little bit. And that depends, above all, on the government and the majority. Here, we have a committee that we've proposed to set up, and it's rolling around I don't know how many months, but here we've spent two hours, two and a half hours, for a debate that's not at all on the subject. I am delighted that this has been withdrawn and I really appeal to all of you, let's get this point over with and think about what we are doing on these subjects that each of us is doing here and discussing them, and they are the subjects of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u179	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I propose that we return to the substance of the debate, we extend the Commission's term by one month. Are there any lines? I can't see. Last statement please, Mrs. Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, when Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev started talking lies about Mr. Boyko Borisov from the platform and about the company Lukoil, it is time for elections in Bulgaria. And that's where the campaign starts. First, to Mr. Mirchev. Between 2010 and 2012 Mr. Boyko Borisov's government was a government that for the first time in Bulgaria introduced measuring instruments for all tax warehouses. This is the government that filed a lawsuit against Lukoil for the withdrawal of the license, if you remember. Do you remember that period? I was neither part of the team of Mr. Simeon Djankov, who introduced the legislative changes and put in order the overall accounting of all excise duties, not only of fuels, but of alcohols and cigarettes. And to speak from this platform that Mr. Boyko Borisov has led a pro-lucoil policy is an honest lie. If you believe that the company "Lukoil" has not paid its corporate tax, you are obliged as any Bulgarian citizen to submit a signal to the National Revenue Agency to carry out a revision for the last 10 years. However, GERB no longer manages. We will see what taxes the company will pay this year and what actions you will take if you think they do not pay taxes. We expect you to see for yourself, not to tell lies about Mr. Borisov's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Trifonova. You have 50 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Trifonova, just two questions to be clear. At one point, some of the equipment disappeared in the tax-related fuel depots, and then the then customs chief came and said there was no one to suggest that they be returned. He came to me personally, and I said, "No problem, I'll suggest it." And I suggested it because you told me there weren't any. These are facts that have been witnessed, I can introduce you to them. A second very important fact. Turns out cigarettes and alcohol don't have measuring instruments everywhere. Me and my colleagues put in a bill again. Then it turned out that at the last moment the Minister of Finance asked for a notification that for years had not been requested, and it turned out that this law of ours had not been passed for years. You probably don't know that. And now we've asked the Ministry of Finance for a review, to have measuring instruments everywhere, and this law of ours from years ago to be implemented. These are the facts, if the facts matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u183	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a second line to Desislava Trifonova? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, Mr. Dimitrov, during whose government the measuring instruments were cancelled? Oresharsky! You didn't mention that conveniently. Let us, please, be correct from this tribune. Besides, whose votes did the measuring instruments return during Mr. Boyko Borisov's second government? With regard to fuels, you know, and check that there were many acts drawn up regarding companies. There were also companies with regard to alcohol, which were composed of very large acts by the Customs Agency. Why do we have to argue about something that has evidence? Thank you. [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-06-08.u185	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? An extension of the deadline already, because that's all that's left. I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. I put to the vote the draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission for the verification of the circumstances that led to the suspension of natural gas from OOO "Gazprom Export" and the procedure for the selection of alternative suppliers from Bulgargaz "EAD," as by importer. Vote 194 MPs: 192, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I'm adjourned today's session. The next regular meeting will take place tomorrow at 9:00 p.m., 9 May 2022. [[PHONE RINGING]]
