ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] The agenda for today, Thursday, January 6, 2022, includes a hearing of the Minister of Energy regarding the delay in the construction of the gas interconnector Bulgaria This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for the maintenance of the equipment for Before we go to point one, I'm telling you that on the grounds of art. 84, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are withdrawn the draft decision for adoption of conditions for access to the buildings of the National Assembly in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation as of 10 December 2021. We move on to item one of the agenda:.. HEARING THE MINISTER OF ENERGY ALEXANDER NIKOLOV. The request for a hearing was received by the National Representative Zhecho Stankov. Here you go, Mr. Stankov. [[National Representative Elena Guncheva wants the floor for a declaration.]] Declaration? Okay. Mr. Stankov, I'm sorry. Please come in for a statement, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We MPs of the parliamentary group of ARCHIVEs express our strong disagreement with the intentions expressed by General Todd Walters in charge of NATO forces in Europe to deploy more NATO troops in Bulgaria. No one has asked the Bulgarian people if they want Bulgaria to be a member of NATO! No one asked us if we wanted American troops on Bulgarian soil! No one asked us if we wanted to become a front against Russia or any other country! Bulgaria must preserve its national sovereignty and this includes the non-discrimination of foreign troops on its territory. Even during war and damage in Bulgaria there were no permanent foreign troops. Currently, several thousand US soldiers are already in Bulgaria under the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States for Defence Cooperation signed by the government of Sergey Stanishev. The American military on Bulgarian territory, if they commit a crime, is agreed not to be tried by the Bulgarian laws. We all remember the incident in Cheshnegirovo when American military invaded Bulgarian soil and made a mockery of Bulgarian citizens without any reaction from the Bulgarian state. That got away with nothing to do with the invaders. Bulgaria has been turned into an almost occupied territory and Bulgarian politicians continue to betray the Bulgarian national interests. We strongly disagree on the deployment of NATO troops on Bulgarian soil, demanding that the government and the National Assembly review the agreement on military bases of internship in Bulgaria and terminate it. We of the parliamentary group of ARCHIVErs will submit a draft decision in this direction. We understand the dependence of some of the Bulgarian politicians on foreign embassies, but history has shown that there is no forgiveness for betrayal. Bulgaria must preserve its independence and this can only happen with an independent and strong Bulgarian army, because he who does not feed his own army feeds foreign, as we already see him. Our Euro-Atlantic allies insisted on the destruction of Bulgarian weapons and reforms in our army, convenient for them. Bulgaria cut its own planes to order an expensive American model from the last century at an impossible price, which was paid in advance and the planes are still missing. We therefore call on Bulgarian politicians to protect the sovereignty of Bulgaria and not to become national traitors. We express our determination to oppose by all means another national betrayal. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u3	For a procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! My procedure is in the manner of conduct and is specific to you, I will say why. Last night, at the late hour, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs received an e-mail for an extraordinary meeting of the Commission today at 2 pm with one single point My procedure is entirely to you and as the first among the equal on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB we ask you from the first day to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and especially the Rules of Procedure because the Political Party GERB-SDS submitted a draft decision from the first day of this National Assembly. You cannot distribute the draft decision of the ruling coalition to the Committee on Legal Affairs, but to the opposition to stand in your drawer. You're in violation of art. 8, that is: the President of the National Assembly in the exercise of the powers under art. 77, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 78, para. 1 of the Constitution provides the necessary conditions for the activities of the committees of the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u5	Okay, thank you. You're on procedure, too? Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! During the previous speech, we will talk about a violation of the Rules of Procedure, namely to Art. 32, since yesterday was held an extraordinary meeting of the Health Commission, but, of course, he was deliberately not informed by email by the national representative of the National Revival Elena Guncheva, a member of this commission, according to art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure. This was done intentionally so that it could not vote because it was put on the agenda of this committee as it was overtime placed on the agenda of the Legal Committee Draft of a decision of.. We continue the change......................................................................... Of course, we will take appropriate measures. Mr. Chairman, I ask that the procedure be made so that the relevant decisions are not brought forward. Unfortunately, yesterday I realized that this decision of the Health Commission was adopted after the people's representative of the Revival Elena Guncheva was deliberately not informed to participate in it. The same thing, thank God, didn't happen to the Legal Committee. That decision was not adopted there for those Members who do not know it. So please, Mr. Chairman, let's take steps not to violate the rules. I think we're all looking for a representation here, I think we're all talking about parliamentaryism. To hold a meeting of the Health Commission by certain MPs, just because they are from the opposition, is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u7	Thank you. We'll check these cases. You're welcome, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u8	Mr. Chairman, yesterday in the Health Commission, not only was the opposition not known, but also part of your coalition partners who are us. Our representatives have not been notified. Dr. Sylvie Kirilov went just because he found out at the entrance, the other members of our company weren't known at all. So we believe that this meeting yesterday of the Health Commission should be declared invalid. And please, follow the rules, because you're starting to lightly awaken your thoughts. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u9	Thank you. We can move on to Mr. Stankov now. Please come in for a statement of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I have requested this hearing in relation to the Rules of the National Assembly, because in the last few months there has been more and more talk about the high price of electricity and natural gas. Today during the hearing we will talk specifically about one of the main arteries or veins of the Bulgarian energy related to the supply of gas on the territory of the country, namely the Bulgarian-Greek gas connection. This is a project, one of the seven projects of common interest of the European Commission, which gives the real diversification of natural gas supplies on the territory of the country on an entirely new route.... through Turkey, Greece and the gas connection Bulgaria... Greece, and from a whole new source............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There have certainly been many untruths spoken over the past few weeks about inactivity regarding construction in the last 12 years, so in a short telegraph style in my speech I will explain what the situation is. After 2011 the company was established, 2013 was signed the gas supply contract, December 2015, the final investment decision by the partners was signed, which means that from now on the project is irreversible. As of January 2016 until November 2017, efforts have been made to find 220 million. EUR for the implementation of this investment - €45 million from EEPR, €39 million from Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" - 110 million state guarantee and credit for extremely good conditions from the bank of all European citizens - the European Investment Bank. As soon as the funding is organised, public procurement for the delivery of pipes is launched as early as December 2017, and shortly later for a builder who is finished and a contract is signed at the end of 2019, two weeks after signing the contract for the delivery of pipes and for construction the real works are started on the ground. Notice, the deadline is 18 months, which is due to expire in April 2021. Due to problems with the crown crisis and delivery of some of the materials with a long-term production period there is a request by the builder to be extended, fully in accordance with the Bulgarian and European legislation this period has been extended until 31 December 2021, and for the extended period the builder himself has submitted on a daily schedule how he will perform his activities. An inspection has been carried out repeatedly and periodically for the construction precisely by the then Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, and the last such inspection was carried out on 31 March 2021. We are already Yordanov Day 6 January 2022, the gas connection not only does not work, but more than 50 km from the pipeline or one third of the country's territory is not laid at all. The subject we are going to discuss today is of extreme public interest for several main reasons. First of all, it must be established how in eight months in two official and regular government the project was brought up to eight months late. Has anything ever been done in these 240 days of working governments? What support citizens will receive, who will have to pay the high price for the fact that the interconnector is not ready - 140 thousand Bulgarian households who are currently paying the impossible bills, which have already arrived within 500 to 1000 BGN. and they wonder how to cut their expenses, turn off the radiators in their homes? In what way will the Bulgarian business be compensated? Because if it is not compensated, this entire account will be paid by Bulgarian citizens. Last but not least, we need to clarify a very important point. It's that we wouldn't even be talking about a price of BGN 133. on a megawatt hour of natural gas, if the contract was executed within 31 December 2021. The delay of this interconnector, which I personally doubt will be fulfilled even by July, August or September this year, leads to huge losses of both the Bulgarian business and the sovereign. And last but not least, all hospitals, kindergartens, schools are currently wondering how to deal with their budgets, only so that they can provide warmth to the sick, children, students. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Stankov, you made an exhibition, didn't you? [[Heckling]] Now responds within 10 minutes. [[Noise, lines from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I didn't hear you, Mr. Bikov, because you're talking to a few people. [[Noise, lines.]] No. The two rounds of questions are after the minister's exhibition for 10 minutes. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Within 10 minutes I will try to tell you the short story for 12 years of the specific project. As was said in Mr. Stankov's exhibition, in fact the whole story begins in 2009, starting with the government Borisov 1. Until 2021 and to date from the whole period of management, decision-making, acceleration or suspension, delay of the Project 11 years are under the ministers of Mr. Borisov. These ministers are Traycho Traykov, Delyan Dobrev, Temenuzhka Petkova during the last two governments, as well as Mr Stankov, being Deputy Minister. In 2009, the Memorandum between the two countries was signed. It was only in 2011 that IGB was entered in the Trade Register. The shareholder structure, which is 50% Bulgarian energy holding and 50% IGI Poseidon, is important. That there is 50% for an outside company with Greek ownership, I think it creates a sufficient degree of transparency, decision-making within the company itself. Only in 2015, as it was said, which is four years later, actually five, because the company's entry is January month, and the shareholders' decision is from December, is adopted the final investment decision for the implementation of the project. The market test takes another year and successfully ends only 2016. After another nine months IGB receives permission for construction of Bulgarian territory for the entire route of the pipeline. For all of it! August 8th "The project receives from the Bulgarian and Greek regulatory authorities a joint decision to exempt third party access requirements, regulation of the tariff, ownership separation, confirmed by the European Union. Three months later, a decision was issued by the European Commission on compatible State aid in accordance with the Guidelines on State aid for the protection of the environment and energy from 2014 EUR for the IGB Project from OPIC. A construction permit was granted in 2019 on the territory of the Hellenic Republic at the beginning of February. As reported by Mr. Stankov, funding was received from EBRD. There is a very interesting fact about EBRD and the corresponding funding received because there are doubts or so-called KYC procedures, ID procedures and so on, for the then Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, namely Jacquelen Cohen, EBRD to the last refuse financing of the project. It is so far that in order to preserve the then CEO of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Statute is changed in a way in which the specific company is managed by a Deputy Executive Director who does not report on the Executive Director's project. The lawyers in the Chamber can say what a grand decision and what legal thought this is. I'll move on. All funding is provided in October. However, the entire financing of the project was provided in October 2019. The problem with the Statute has been resolved within two weeks of taking office of the current government. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "What's the problem? "]] If you do not see a problem that a particular company is not managed by its principal and the CEO is not a problem at all. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u13	Any further questions, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u14	On 10 October 2019 basic contracts for the implementation of the project were signed. Contract for the production and supply of linear pipes and Contract for the design and delivery of construction.. 10 October 2019 at the time of Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. In early October 2019 the National Energy Regulator and Authorities of Greece and Bulgaria came up with a joint decision to approve the network code and tariff code of the Project for Interconnector Greece. On 28 November 2019 the implementation of the Construction Treaty began and in February 2020 the construction activities of the gas connection with Greece started after the completion of the three-month phase of mobilisation of the builder. After that date, difficulties arise, which led to a delay in the execution period by the builder. "Avaks" due to the pandemic, as has already been mentioned. These difficulties affect the duration despite IGB's efforts to neutralise the effects of the delay. The last delay and the last consent for postponement was signed by Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova precisely for these reasons. As a result of the delay of the project and in the inflation process and of the housing, naturally and when signing the commercial conditions, as mentioned for the price, the builder is experiencing difficulties which are formally and informally sent to the relevant authorities in Bulgaria and to the Board of Directors of ICGB. I'll continue my construction activities. On 9 December 2020, an application was submitted for the authorisation of an independent gas transmission system within the territory of the Republic to the management body of the system On 26 January 2021 an Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic on IGB interconnection was signed and ratified by the Greek Parliament. On 7 April 2021, a decision was issued by the Minister of Environment and Water for a change in the size of the areas necessary for the organisation of temporary auxiliary sites for implementation without excavation of passage under the lake. The same is already true. A key agreement was signed on 22 April 2021 between ICGB and TAR, which provided the necessary levels for transfer pressure from TAR through IGB to an entry point with the transmission network of Bulgartransgaz. The same is signed again by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Great, yeah. On 4 November, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission issued an IGB licence No 576-06, for the implementation of the natural gas transport activity for a period of 35 years. As regards the management and implementation processes of the Project, it should also be added that all activities under the Project are awarded under the Public Procurement Act, which inevitably leads to delays in order to carry out proper procedures. For example, in the period 2017 - 2018 only the appeals of different participants in the different procedures last 18 months. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] 18 months! Make in house I'll get to in house. The Inhouse for building the connection that serves the Gazpromexport is being carried out for how long, the price, as reported by Mr. Stankov, for the implementation of the entire project, is 220 million. Euros. You can check how many kilometers the connection is. It is available. The price paid for the rapid implementation of the other project is 1.1 million. EUR, no indexing and no financial costs. I'm just saying that for your information. [[Relations from the National Representative Temenuzhka Petkova.]] Twice the mileage. It's not six times less, Mrs. Petkova. If you want, I'll give you the exact bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u15	Mr. Nikolov, go to the exhibition, ask questions after.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u16	IGB is a project company managed by the Board of Shareholders and the General Meeting of Shareholders. Each shareholder shall nominate four members of the Board of Directors. The decisions of the General Assembly shall be taken only by unanimity. IGB is represented by two executives who act only together. With the structure of the Board of Directors described, no decision relating to the realization of IGB can be taken on the sole basis, and no single decision can be taken by Bulgaria. All essential decisions, including especially those to amend parameters such as time, price, construction, shall be taken only with full unanimity of the General Assembly. The role of executive directors shall be limited in the direction of operational management. The decision taken with the corresponding rate of return, the delay in decisions in inflation processes leads to a significant reduction in this return and a real delay in the project once again. For the ways of funding I will not stop again, as Mr. Stankov very detailedly told about them. The accepted business plan, as you can see from the construction prices, is significantly different from that adopted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for projects only in Bulgaria, which, although long-term, have been declared to be paid in 10 years, and current data shows that a minimum of 80 will be paid. The regulatory authorities in Bulgaria and Greece confirm the minimum internal rate of return of shareholders. Energy regulators in both countries have approved a margin code of the pipeline providing for the residual capacity of the user's pipeline outside the long-term transport contracts already concluded. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This will allow additional annual revenue to be accumulated above the minimum necessary. Finally, in order not to waste any more time, it obviously expired on me that I will be able to answer your questions less than two weeks after taking office the current government filed a letter to the shareholders of IGB for a request for compensation and a lack of further delay. [[Relations of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Mrs. Atanasova, you will have the opportunity to ask questions, if we may not interrupt like this, from a simple culture. Currently, absolutely all linear schedules have been drawn up and are monitored for implementation by the operational management and by the employees respectively. About the interest of...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u17	Mr. Nikolov, 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u18	Okay, I'll stop there. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u19	Is there a question from.. We continue the Change? No. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u20	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I would first like to thank you for reading how much work has been done over the years and how this project has been made possible. [[(noise, lines and cheers from..) We continue the Change.....................................................................................................)]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you have tried to make some mix between the project "Balkan Stream" and the interconnector Greece - Bulgaria, which is absolutely illogical and has no connection with today's questioning, with your hearing, so let everyone see how much work is done. You don't have to read us what you've been written by the IBC. You don't have to read us. Several times you quote my name, as signed by Temenuzhka Petkova, as if I have signed some death sentences to someone, not what has actually been done and all that has been done so that this project can be left to you as it is at the moment, and you have had one main task. "The two working governments of President Radev had one main task: within these eight months the extension of the contract will be ready the interconnector. You couldn't handle it either. You see how much work has to be done to get to that. But unfortunately...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u21	Personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u22	...it was more important to get rid of GERB. As for the public procurement and the appeal that you mentioned, for 18 months, Dear Minister, we from the Political Party GERB have conducted transparent public procurements and we do not receive the decisions of the court of messages.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u23	Over. Thank you, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u24	So that's the reason. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u25	Mr. Tabutov, are you for a question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u26	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u27	Please, Mr. Stankov. Make it a new group. Please! Thank you. Come on. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Tabutov, you're about a question. Now it's your turn to question anyway. Please, Mr. Stankov. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, you mentioned it. I gave Mrs. Petkova the personal explanation. That's enough. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Okay, Mr. Stankov, here you go, but a personal explanation. If there are any comments outside of the personal explanation, your concern is by name. I take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I was mentioned by name as acting Deputy Minister at the time of these deadlines, which I personally did not have to read from the list because everything went through my hands in these years. The battles with both the performers and the European Commission, with the provision of funding and the chance for Bulgaria to be powered from a whole new source, from a whole new route have passed through our hands. You have received a ready-made project of 220 million, with a prepared daily schedule for its implementation by 31 December, which you delayed by eight months in eight months, and yet you read from this platform everything that has been done, and you still did not explain to the citizens why they paid BGN 133. At a megawatt hour for energy instead of having a new pipeline and the price is half. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by GERB SDS: "Bravo!" and banging on the bank by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u29	Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is: what are the specific measures that you will take for the next two weeks to implement and put this pipeline into operation on time? [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: "Analysis." Analysis will do.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u31	No lines? Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you are, Minister, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am extremely pleased with the pathos of the parliamentary group of GERB. If this pathos were introduced in the same way as in other very important projects, the project would have been implemented long ago, as you have seen possible. Mrs. Petkova, don't mix. A comparison is made between projects that are realized in a completely different way. The comparison is made in order to show the interest of Bulgaria to have one infrastructure project and not another. Regarding the interest of the governments of Mr. Borisov, seven visits were made before May 2021, as follows: 11 November 2019 is the first visit of Mr. Boyko Borisov and the US Ambassador; 15 February 2020 is the only visit of the Minister of Energy to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova's official governments; 2020. "May, month of July, month of November; month of February 2021 again; 31 March 2021' The only person he visits is your chairman Mr. Boyko Borisov without any representative of the Ministry of Energy. After May 2021, the Minister of Energy from the caretaker government and a representative of the US Embassy visited the Project on 3 December. Within two weeks, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov met with Greek Prime Minister Mizotakis. Within two weeks, we have scheduled a meeting with the Greek minister Mr. Skrekas on the ground and talks with the project company "Avaks" to speed up construction.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u33	Are they accelerated?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u34	About whether or not something should be read. Yes, Mr. Stankov, it should be read when there is accurate data and when it should be quoted. The fact that you mix natural gas prices with transport charges and with a source will leave it to other people to comment. The prices that arrive in Bulgaria are a function of a mix of long-term contracts. The lack of CBCB is currently just a convenient explanation for people who use it as a justification for not having normal deliveries, normal prices in Bulgaria. And this thing will be cleaned up. I promise you! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u36	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u37	About what? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u38	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u39	Please come in for a procedure, but I hope we can stop with the personal explanations, because any mention of a name cannot be an excuse for a personal explanation. Please! You have the opportunity to ask a question in a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u40	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. There was a specific question raised by a parliamentary group and it is: what measures will be taken for the next two weeks? As Chairman, I ask you to ensure that the questions are answered, because in the whole speech within five minutes there was not a word in the next two weeks what the Minister and the Ministry of Energy and the Government will do to speed up the gas connection so that Bulgarian citizens can pay a fairer price for natural gas. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u41	I'm taking a note on behalf of Mr. Minchev. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will answer the questions. Now you can ask it again if you decide. GERB has the floor for a question. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u42	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I will take this as a personal explanation to the Minister, as he practically communicated with the parliamentary group of GERB and personally with me and with Mr. Stankov. You didn't answer the question that was asked by "We continue the Change" and I will ask my question accordingly. First of all, Dear Minister, of the Interconnector Greece I have been periodically in the month, at least twice. I don't know who made these inquiries to you, where you read this story, but if you did or had tried to do something in those eight months, the two working governments of President Radev compared to what we have done in those years. It is good that you have read so that all MPs and Bulgarian citizens can see what the realization of such an infrastructure project is going through, that it is not something that can be done in a month or two or three or year. You can see that only the notification of State aid in the European Commission lasts more than a year. Public procurement, which I claim to be absolutely transparent and public, has continued as long as necessary as our legislation provides. So this is about visits. Prime Minister Borisov personally, unlike your prime minister and President Radev, had personally committed himself to the realization of this project so that he could get to this point to stay a few more tens of kilometers so that the project could be finalized. You couldn't finish that either. Now my question to you is this: first of all, what are the penalties under the contract for failing to performer's work? In this regard, as today is January 6th, on December 31st, the contract expired, there is no work done, what are the penalties that the CBC BBC has set to date, as this should happen for every day of default, what is the amount of these penalties? And another question, as the 31st of December is over and the work is not done and we have no contract, at the present time between the ICBGB and the contractor company has no existing contract, how do you intend from now on the two entities to continue their work? What legal standards will they fit into? There is no way for the contract to be annexed since its term has expired, i.e. there is no current contract in force. How do you intend to operate these companies from now on? And my next sub-question is related to what my colleagues from "We continue the Change" put, but you never answered: what measures have you taken personally so far or what do you intend to take so that the project can be implemented in the shortest possible time? Because, as I said before, you don't have an existing contract. Even that did not bother you to think in that direction. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer. But when you ask between five and seven questions, I don't know how you want to answer each one of them?! So please, fellow Members, consider, however, the possibilities in 4.. 5 minutes to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Petkova, I assume that since the contract is signed on specific dates and you know its structure well, you know what the penalty rate is. The letter to "Avaks" and the letter to "ICBGB" regarding the penalties was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Asen Vassilev and myself and sent to the Board of Directors. Any decision, again under the contract and under the rights of shareholders, and of the Board of Directors, shall be taken unanimously. A meeting of the Board of Directors will be held at which the letter of compensation requested by Bulgaria will be examined. That's one. Secondly, regarding performance, the fact that you despise the delay in performance leads to the drop of the contract for me is, to say the least, odd. There is also this treaty clearly indicates what should happen and how and what the penalties are. Once again I will tell you: the prices of natural gas in Bulgaria have nothing to do with the transport and the routes on which the specific fuel passes. Regarding the measures, as I mentioned in the previous answers to the questions, requested meetings with the Minister of Energy of Greece Mr. Costas Skrekas, telephone calls were held with him, the financial situation of the company contractor "Avaks" was examined, additional ways of realizing the project were discussed, an analysis of costs and benefits was prepared. For people who have been 11 years in the management of the particular institution, it should be clear that from now on, the key point is to put this pipeline into operation before July 2022 so that it can be used during the next heating season. Thanks to the last delay without any compensation and without any claims to "Avaks" by the then managers the same thing was not achieved for this heating season. Again this does not lead to a change in the prices of specific fuels in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Now the word for question has a DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Of course, the subject is very important, so there are emotions. I have a feeling that in time you will be asked questions and the next ones who are no longer ministers but MPs. Then perhaps the next minister will react so emotionally, blaming the former. It's been like this for a long time, and it's gonna go on like this. The essence of the topic today is what happens to the 12-year project? The essence of the question is that 12 years of Bulgaria and Greece cannot cope with an interconnector so that a billion cubic units agreed through this interconnector can receive Bulgaria. I don't know what you mean, the relationship doesn't affect the price, but I'm listening to the Prime Minister say that if we had received all the gas from Azerbaijan, the price would have been quite different, but it's obvious that you mean something else that you can explain to us. Mr. Minister, the problem with the interconnector, if we go to explain, there will probably be many other problems that you do not want to name. If you find courage, you can name them and tell them why and why, so far, this interconnector has not seen the light of day. You probably know them, and I think if you'd done everything you needed to do, because the Minister of Finance's stubbornness...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u47	The question is, Mr. Atalay, time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u48	I just want to ask the Minister: does he think that the project is properly structured as a business model and development scheme, namely as a separate project and not developed by the transmission system operators of Bulgaria and Greece? To that question, if you can answer me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Atalay! For the billion cubic in question that can enter Bulgaria, IGB will not have the opportunity to implement them this year, I mean, in this heating season. And that at the moment, unfortunately, is certain. For this reason and what I mean when it is said that this does not directly affect the price of natural gas. Fortunately, the delivery of natural gas to Bulgaria can also pass through alternative routes. That's exactly why. [[a line from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov]] I don't know if you've done anything in Botash from Turkey or existing routes back in time, that's one thing. Secondly, after alternative routes and problematic delays yes, Mr. Atalay, you are very right that there are many other problems that can be considered. They are considered in the most simple and basic way. The consumption and supply of long-term natural gas contracts is the so-called financial value equal to zero. That is, if Bulgaria loses, someone else wins. The failure to deliver natural gas in Bulgaria at the moment leads to horrific losses every single day, every day. Who's winning? Those who replace the missing quantities in Bulgaria win, i.e. the so-called alternative suppliers. The companies that currently sell the quantities, which are agreed on long-term contracts over 25 years, are also winning, in fact, for Bulgaria. From there on, everyone can draw conclusions as to what are the real reasons for the delay. Yes, there is a project that has been extremely difficult to implement for more than 12 years, there is another project that is extremely easy to realize under two years. If we observe the technological progress of other nearby countries, perhaps for this period of time 10.. 11 years we could launch a shuttle into space. Specifically, your question. Looking at the manner of justification of the Greek regulator, and the Bulgarian regulator and the rates of return, if the answer should be unambiguous, it is rather yes, and so should the project be structured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the next parliamentary group. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I think that in your 10 minutes exhibition, it is clear what the situation is. Whatever questions we ask why this has happened, perhaps you can explain to us the bigger picture that has been happening for the past 10 years because, indeed, for me, the key is buried in the way of funding. If faster funding was provided between 2014 and 2018, this project would have been implemented a long time ago. Dear colleagues, we may be discussing here the geostrategic importance of this project yet, but let us not forget that Europe itself has abandoned its customers and by dropping the project. At the time, we fought extremely hard for this project, as well as my predecessors, so did we, but unfortunately, the TARE project has been selected and, of course, the contract that was signed in 2013 for a billion cubic metres of natural gas from Azerbaijan had to be actually delivered through this interconnector. We created an institutional working group with the Council of Ministers' Decision so as to speed up the work, but unfortunately, this notorious funding clearly does not have the 220 million needed. EUR to be shared with the Greeks so as to build this project, and we rely on a funding that was provided in the distant year 2018. So whatever we are discussing is deliberately delayed, whether purely institutional, but it is a fact that for 180 km such a delay is entirely unacceptable. Mr. Minister, my question is purely technical. Since in Greece they have already done their hydrotests and have been completed, and we in Bulgaria have not yet begun despite the delay that will be by 1 July this year, when are these hydrotests scheduled to begin? The next stage should be the gas tests, but the hydrotests when you plan to start, so let's really find out if there's going to be a continuing delay? And in the end, let's say that whatever compensation there is for the delay, they cannot be more than 14 million. Euros. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. That means more than 14 million. Euros can't be compensation, but when will the hydrotests eventually start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u53	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Stoynev, thank you for the question of all specifics, technical implementation and engineering tests, including hydrotests and bringing commercialization. What is requested by the project company and their management from the Bulgarian side.. to draw up the required schedules in accordance so that all activities that are possible can be carried out, in parallel with the whole commercialization of the project to happen as quickly as possible, a specific date and start of the hydrotests at the moment I cannot give you, but I will demand it and in the next hearing I will provide it. At the next meeting of the Board of Directors, this particular question will be asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is such a people. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the last three governments of GERB they proved their disparaging attitude towards the Bulgarian-Greek gas connection project. And this disparity has been noted by all European partners, including in the area where I am more competent, I am not so much in energy, but in the banking sector, where the so-called procedure mentioned by the Minister, KYC means how and how the risk to those who can manage such a project can be assessed. And that is why EBRD has probably been slowing for so long, as it has appreciated GERB's ability to manage such a project, which it has not been able to implement for more than 12 years. Now it's hard to show false concern, it just doesn't make sense. My question to the Minister is when will an analysis of the structure of the deal be drawn up, I ask when? An in-depth analysis, however, in which I would personally like to see how individual managers bear the responsibility for not realising this project. How and how have individual banks, financial institutions and financing countries noted the extent and extent of the level of competence in managing such a project and the effect of its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u57	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Karimanski, a detailed analysis that includes costs and benefits, should step on the market metrics and alternatives for deliveries in Bulgaria. Such, including lost benefits, shall also be drawn up at the time on a database of existing long-term contracts. The same is assigned to the Bulgarian Energy Holding and all the possibilities for assessing whether to be replaced performer, whether such a thing to be required by the project company are currently on the radar. That is, even the negative scenario, which means to us the project company "Avaks" directly and directly communicates to the Board of Directors, that there will be no possibility to build within a certain time limit or that it will not be able to put into service within a specified time frame and will be compared with whether and how it is better to choose another contractor. Once again, I would like to remind you that all the decisions of the project company are taken with full consensus from the Board of Directors. For all alternative scenarios, I guarantee you will be informed in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! It is impressive that GERB wants a hearing of the Energy Minister for the Greek connection. We expect GERB to request now a hearing of the transport minister for the concession at Sofia airport, where we lost half a billion, then a hearing about the concession at the port of Burgas and then you can request a hearing of the interior minister for the stacks and bars in Boyko Borisov's bedroom. [[Applause from DB and We are continuing the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u61	Mr. Mirchev, let's concentrate on...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u62	Yeah, I'm concentrating, and I'm gonna ask the question. Just before the specific question, do you know what a 12-year-old child in Bulgaria has not seen? He has not seen any different football champion from "Ludogorets" and promised links with neighbouring countries from Boyko Borisov. He had promised them 2009 when the gas was stopped by Russia, it had not seen. And with regard to the specific question, Mr. Minister, the two projects -- both the Turkish Stream and the Greek Stream -- cannot be dealt with separately. On Bulgarian territory the interconnector is about 180 km and has not been built for 12 years. In just less than 12 months a Turkish stream was built, which is three times longer. Not only that, it was at stake, except for all the procedural moves you made, in the project itself the unique interconnector to pass under a dam. Something unprecedented, pointless, in the project itself set to go under the dam itself?! These are things that do not have any explanation, except that 12 years is deliberately delaying its construction and it is supreme insolence to now go out and ask these questions that you must answer, not this minister. And my specific question, Minister, to you are you currently familiar with the verification of the SANS, covering all contracts of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, concerning both Turkish and Greek flow? And if you haven't, what are you going to do about the leaders and all those responsible in those 12 years that were supposed to be implementing a Greek stream? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mirchev, I'm not sure which checks you're referring to and which companies you're referring to. But all companies under the hat of Bulgarian Energy Holding and all project companies are with public financial data, they are sufficiently clear. You mentioned two of the things that are important about the amount of routes and specifics, as well as the approved costs. The taking of concrete actions takes place on the basis of the opportunities that the Ministry of Energy has, as yesterday has already become visible and clear. Any doubts - whether they are colored with some political hue for damage or for lost benefits for Bulgaria - will lead to specific checks and sanctions or other actions. What I can do is give me details of the specific checks, if possible, and request them from the specific authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Do you now have a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u66	Dear Minister, since we commented to a huge extent on the delay that happened in Bulgaria in the construction of the gas connection, there is one on the part of Greece. The question of our group is: do you currently have communication, do you know how things are moving there? Because in the part, even in Bulgaria to speed up the pace, we should deal with it if the opposite side of the border does not happen things in the district of Gyumurdzhina In this direction, do you have any information you can provide us with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylova. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Mihailova, technical implementation of the route, as already mentioned, in Bulgaria is much more complicated than in Greece. Greece, being closer to the specific natural gas suppliers, has much more alternatives for delivery to Greece, respectively, for the realization of financial benefits. Whether there is a particular reason for delay from the Greek side I cannot say and would not speculate. I have the assurance of the Minister of Energy of Greece, Mr Skrecas, that in addition to the specific meetings with him and in the course of our Prime Minister's talks with Mr Mizzotakis, we will also do physical checks on progress on specific linear schedules and the technical implementation of the project in Greece. There is an order for the specific project company to monitor the same schedules on a two-week basis and to send notifications in case of delay. That's what we can do. Once again, I say to you that all decisions are taken with full unanimity, therefore there should be agreement on both our part and the representatives of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Now we move on to the second round of questions. Do you have a question? Come in for a question, Mr. Tabutov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my second question for you today is: for what final date will we insist on our part to our partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tabutov. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov. Here the answer will also be short, I guess.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tabutov, in view of the current status of the project, what we will insist on before the project company is to be put into operation on 1 July 2022. In this way we will guarantee potential additional tests, if necessary, and in no way miss the next heating season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Now GERB and Delyan Dobrev are welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I have witnessed the will of the National Assembly in the last 12 years and I can assure you, in fact, since 2009, perhaps already 13th year, that all the people's meetings since then, all the ruling majorities, all the governments have had political will to complete this project in the fastest possible way. We hope that your government, as well as the previous two official governments, had the same political will. I believe that was the case. The fact is, however, that in the last eight months when two official governments ruled, and the last almost a month in which you are a minister, this project has been late for eight months, as my colleague said, with another eight. Actually, you extended his deadline by six, but he'll probably be eight hours late. And I think it is pointless to blame each other and to seek guilt in this Chamber in the political leadership of the state, given that the guilt lies, in my opinion, entirely in the expert management of the project company, and I have said so many times. Political will has always been, a competence at the highest level in the country on this issue has always been, but there has been lack of competence in the project company. The question I want to ask is: do you know what Teodora Georgieva's salary is? Is it true she gets between 15 and 20,000? lv.? That is, twice as much as the Prime Minister of Bulgaria gets, three times more than one MP gets. And is there a demand for responsibility in the last seven-eight years when she's the CEO, why is this project taking so long? I'd like to draw your attention to something else I hope you'll hear very well. Several times we have heard from you here an excuse that sanctions will be imposed if such a decision is taken unanimously by the Board of Directors of the project company. Actually, that's not true. These sanctions are recorded in the contract and if you are trying to get out of imposing 90 thousand sanctions. EUR per day of the performer for the delay, justifying that a unanimous decision should be taken, the Greeks are not guilty. We will very closely monitor and if this happens, I tell you that from the GERB group we will send a signal to the prosecution against you and Finance Minister Asen Vassilev. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u75	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Dobrev, I think you're right about the political will, I hope so! Back in time I can't look, I can look at the results and status achieved now. About the political will on our part. As the effects are very prominent and very clear, at the financial level precisely for this reason and the related contract with the company from Azerbaijan for gas supply is ongoing negotiations, as it is clear that the infrastructure will be delayed. I know you usually have a few differences in units. We have not been ministers for a month, but we have been ministers for three weeks, it does not matter, and thank you for your expectations within three weeks to be able to solve something that has been delayed for 12 years. Regarding the expert management of the company, I do not think that the Minister of Energy has the competence to demand the amount of salary in a project company that is approved as structure and financial costs by the Bulgarian Energy Holding. But if you're holding, we're gonna take a direct question to the I.C.G.B. Regarding the responsibility of the specific management bodies and without referring to a specific person, as it does not matter the name, nor the gender, the Ministry of Energy will continue to monitor the good implementation of the project company and the specific connectivity. Once again, I would like to remind you that the physical connectivity and infrastructure in Bulgaria has already been built, including the passage under the dam. Regarding sanctions, the Bulgarian government has signed a letter with the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, which includes the amount of sanctions within two weeks. Postponement without sanctions, without any claim is on the part of previous governors. [[Noise and lines.]] You can watch closely, and I hope you do, and compare the approach in both situations. The Bulgarian government has requested payment and the corresponding payments will be received with further delay. Whether previous governments have requested payments and compensation for delays is something you can verify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now DPS. You, Mr. Atalay? Here you go. Mr. Stoynev gives you some instructions, but I suppose these bilateral conversations should be held outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Stoinev was still a minister, he knows some things and it's not bad. [[Laughter and raging]] Mr. Minister, in order to then be able to address all your questions and answers, you still could not find the courage to tell about the project company, Mr. Dobrev tried in some way to explain to you that there is some reason that you do not want to see. However, in order to be clear and to be useful to the public and to the MPs, to tell us would this delay require additional funding because I realized that the delay of 12 years was because there was no opportunity to find funding? And if additional funding is needed, how will you find them in such a short time until July? That's what I want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u79	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Come in for an answer, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Atalay, the project company has signed a contract with a contractor of the specific project and this contract is active with specific obligations and specific penalties for default. The proposal for a change or additional funding should take place on a transparent principle and specifically in favour, as you said, of the Bulgarian society. If additional funding is needed and such a proposal by shareholders or management bodies will be considered on the basis of alternative scenarios, including the retention of the current contractor. If additional funding needs to be made, the project's yield changes accordingly and changes accordingly and additional benefits or additional costs are achieved for the project, you will be informed and it is something that should be closely monitored on specific projects, especially if they are related to infrastructure. The costs themselves are not the main part to be monitored on specific projects. The overall mechanism should be monitored for expenditure, revenue, net benefits to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Now the BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to open only one clamp that the Azeri gas in question was actually negotiated in the distant 2009 by President Parvanov. And why, since 2009, on the threshold at the beginning of 2022, we are talking again about the failure of the same project, is a matter of a deeper analysis that is most likely to come in time. Why from 1 January 2021 Bulgaria has reserved quantities for delivery of a billion cubic meters and this is not implemented? And who will compensate Bulgaria for the missed benefits again is the topic of another analysis. But I, Minister, would like to ask you, in 2019, loudly, with all media, Mr. Prime Minister at that time Borisov, with all his entourage made a first hole and discovered the construction site and construction activities under the Project. However, the implementing contract was signed in the same year as October. I would like to ask: during these five months or a little more than five months, how exactly has the control been carried out, and has there ever been one, and if there has been, on what grounds? And as a sub-question: is there an official application from the contractor for extension of the deadline to date, whether in the Ministry of Energy or in the Bulgarian Energy Holding is irrelevant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Regarding the control and manner of performing the job in deep detail at the moment, I cannot answer. I do not know if you are referring to anything specific, but as far as the structure of the project company has not changed, the same control should be imposed by the operational authorities. For the request for another delay, yes, it is, and no, it will not be respected as it was back in time. Accordingly, our reaction is clear in the letter sent, both to the project company and to shareholders and management bodies, where it is said that sanctions will be imposed under the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u86	First of all, two thanks. Thank you, Minister, for carrying out this data, including the names of the people who have put the signatures under this insane period of unrealization. On the other hand, I thank GERB for bringing this up, because when you're messed up to your ears, let's say, in mud and you have the nerve to call everyone to see your shit, it's really worthy of fun. So my question is: can it be said that there are specific personalities from the former rulers who, with action or inaction, have practically sabotaged the realization of the project?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u87	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. Members of the National Assembly! For a particular sabotage, I don't think I have the right to speak. For specific financial loss benefits and current damage to the missing infrastructure and the use of the fact that the latter does not exist for the reduction, as already mentioned, of the supply of natural gas from Azerbaijan, I can say that Bulgaria is suffering serious damage, which has been distributed between two companies, two structures, and at the moment one Market dynamics have led to the fact that Bulgaria's structured contract with the Azerbaijani company AJC would now be of exceptional benefit to Bulgaria. Therefore, despite the delay, we are making every possible effort, despite strangely structured regulations back in time, to start running as quickly as possible in Bulgaria, the price shock that happened as a result of the KEWRC's decision and the proposed structure by "Bulgargaz" should be avoided as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u89	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u90	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the topic of missed opportunities and sabotage of the past 12 years is undoubtedly one of the most important and state authorities should deal with it. It is more interesting for me, however, what happens from now on and what are the levers with which the executive power and specifically the Ministry of Energy can influence the commissioning of the interconnector within the agreed deadlines. Now, of course, the subject of 90 grand fines. EUR per day and whether it will enter into force is important, as this would be a lever for impact on the builder. However, the other is the necessary certifications and approvals by regulators and by the European Commission of the interconnector, and what actions have been taken in this direction is my question, and how much can they be taken in advance so that really putting into service coincides to a large extent with the completion of the construction activities on the interconnector? With regard to Azeri gas: what actions are being taken to import most of the Azeri gas so that the price of natural gas in Bulgaria's energy mix can be more bearable for consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u91	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Panev! Regarding the levers of influence, we consider all possible, including what you mentioned, the fines and sanctions that can be used as a tool for negotiating and speeding up the process. Contract structures and mutual decisions require communication at the highest government level. One of the main topics discussed at the meeting of Mr. Mitsotakis with Prime Minister Petkov is the Greek link. Your question about parallel processes and certification of the route and inserting as quickly as possible into use we have requested from the Bulgarian representatives as detailed a review of which processes and how they can be acted in parallel so that no time is wasted in any of the processes. Accordingly, on the Greek side, we will request all possible levers and mechanisms to speed up construction and review regulatory requirements. Regarding the supply of natural gas by......................................................................................................................................................................... Accordingly, the only thing that remains a valid problem until 1 July 2022 is the optimization of the amount of quantities Bulgaria receives. The negotiations continue. We expect a response from the Board of Directors of the specific company. After meeting with political people in Azerbaijan, including Minister of Economy and Minister of Energy, Mr. Jabarov and Shaphazov, we have the assurance that they will do everything possible so that the energy crisis in Bulgaria will be felt softer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u93	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. And one final question from the reenactment. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! At the beginning of your hearing and the questions that were asked, GERB raised a topic which, I do not know how they could say it, but there is nothing surprising to me, for wonderfully conducted public procurements, brilliantly cleared procedures, but we all know basically what this is about. However, that is not the question and what I would like to comment on. The fact is that in 2013 the contract in question was signed with the Azerbaijani Party for gas supply between one billion and three billion. Figuratively, not with exact numbers, of course, this will give, if performed, about 20.. 25% of the amount of gas we need. At the moment, the facts are such that we have a delay, but not only on our part, what we were just commenting on at the rebirth that there is a huge delay in the project and on the Greek side, there is a delay in a series of infrastructure decisions that should have been made by a Greek side and have not been made. I understand that you will hardly be able to explain why, but let's not just pour our head with ash and explain how bad we are, because, on the other hand, we have this The fact is, at the moment, about 250 million. Cube. m gas is delivered to Bulgaria from a Greek country through the Tower for those of you who do not know, the fact is that this is extremely small. The fact is, however, that the delay in this big project with Azerbaijani gas, which should come to Bulgaria, is causing financial losses in huge quantities. Specifically, my question to you is: the Ministry's estimates of what they say as figures; just for the past year, how many unfulfilled revenues would be and in particular the losses caused by this delay, at least for last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ganev, fellow MPs! Yes, the quantities delivered through the Tower are few, both against the background of consumption in Bulgaria and the opportunities for realization of financial benefits and against the background of existing contracts. Once again, I would like to stress that the trade contract between AJC and the existence of the Greek link is not the only possible alternative for the delivery of the agreed quantities under the 2013 contract. For this reason we are looking for the opportunity to reduce the lost benefits, which are, in fact, direct losses for the Bulgarian society and yes, lead to a direct increase in the price of natural gas in Bulgaria. As long-term contract formulas are, as some fellow Members stress, a trade secret, I would like to assure you, honourable Members, that public interest in a court always prevails over commercial secrecy. Proven! Therefore, the amount of these losses, depending on the metrics and the specific market mechanisms and the structure of the formula, can reach up to 1.5 million. lv. daily on unused volumes. Accurate figure, because both variables are variable on a daily basis, the structure based on oil products and cost structure based on the supply of natural gas hub TTF, I would not be hired to give you. But the fact that I mentioned the figure on a daily basis to you gives you a clear idea of how many losses Bulgarian society is currently suffering because we fail to realise all opportunities under existing long-term contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u97	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We've run out of questions. Now we move on to expression of attitude. From the parliamentary group we continue the Change, do you wish? I can't see. From GERB? You? Mrs. Petkova, come in. Let me just say that after this hearing, I'm gonna take a break, and after the break, we're gonna move on to the next one. You have five minutes, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I cannot, of course, be pleased with what I have heard from you, as I have not received any answer to any of the questions asked. First of all, it did not become clear to me how and why you and the Finance Minister sent a letter to ICGB in which you recommended them to seek their damages. It's not about whether you're writing letters or whether they're going to make any decisions on the board. What decision will you make, it does not matter at all, as this is a clause of the contract and it is mandatory to implement. If you understand, we are in the hypothesis of non-compliance with the contract, which, on top of that, has expired. I do not know if you are aware of the risk at which the implementation and completion of the project from this fact has expired, there is no action taken. I didn't get an answer, and what is the amount of the penalty charged in the ICGB accounting records, and since I know what the contract says, I'll tell you that to date this penalty should be 540 thousand. Euros. This is what you are looking for in IGB's accounting records. That's how much the penalty should be. I believe that a very valuable time has been wasted, seven months have been wasted in which you have done nothing to control the process and to complete the project. There were several tens of kilometers left to be built on the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria, but you just showed a lack of care and were engaged in reading a political party GERB from power. That was obviously the more important task. But you see how a strategic project for Bulgaria was fun because you didn't actually do your job. What we have left for you is a finished, structured project that you have delayed and it is not clear at the moment how it will continue its implementation from now on an expired contract, unassigned penalties. Some kind of request you're going to be writing an ICGB to collect the penalty. What is the work of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy? It's a contract clause here. There's no way the board wants it or not. As you know, the Board consists of representatives of the Bulgarian side and the Greek side. Well, if the Greek side, if the Greek representatives vote against, does that mean we're not going to collect the penalty, which is 90 thousand. euros per day, each overdue day? Does that mean that? I would like to stress once again that we of the Political Party GERB and the Union of Democratic Forces will monitor very closely how the interests of the Bulgarian country are protected because the main, all funding in practice, which is nearly half a billion. leva is provided by us. You know there's a government guarantee of 110 million. EUR for this project, i.e. the Bulgarian State guarantees a loan from the European Investment Bank and the Bulgarian State must be protected. Those who must be advocates of her interest, Minister, are you at present, as you are fulfilling/borrowing the post of Minister of Energy. So I'm counting on you not writing requests to the ICGB board, but simply taking on your role as a principal, both BEH and ICGB, and being able to protect the national interest. And since I heard you mention earlier that you have no information on how the construction of Greek territory is going, let me just draw your attention to the fact that the company that implements the project is the same in both Greek and Bulgarian territory and the reporting on how the progress on the project is being made for the whole project both in Greek and in Bulgarian territory, so you do not need to ask for special information. The company he builds is a Greek company and it is the same.. builds both on the territory of Bulgaria and on the territory of Greece. Just monitor the information and request that it be reported periodically to you about what is happening. And once again I appeal to you to think very carefully with the lawyers of IGB or your fellow lawyers how you will protect the interest of Bulgaria in view of the lack of a current contract. [[as you see fit]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Now the DPS has the right to express their attitude. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues. As if slowly, if we continue for another hour, some more things will be clarified, which you did not want to say, Mr Minister, but I do welcome you that within a few months you have entered sufficiently well into the essence of the Project. Minister Petkova just said that the construction of the whole pipeline and the interconnector has already become clear that it is not built by a Bulgarian country, but is built by a Greek company. In my opinion, this was one of the important things so that we could go from there and say why, how and how the funding difficulties were created. Here is the question to which you answered me, Mr. Minister, that building the pipeline with a company project was better than giving the two operators the opportunity of the Bulgarian operator and the Greek to build. If the two operators were given the opportunity to build, we would have forgotten the interconnector, we would have forgotten the construction of the linear pipelines, which should have been made because you see that the Balkan stream so-called Turkish stream, and I often said it to Gerberski flow, for how short and how funding was found when standing a serious firm behind the construction and design of the pipeline. Also, Minister, I think you will be very seriously delayed with the additional funding that will be needed. I have a feeling you're not convinced that July is going to release the pipeline. Therefore, with the adoption of measures, such as imposing a Moratorium on part of Bulgaria's energy and bringing Bulgaria into additional losses within, before I took the liberty to say it, about 200 million, and today we see that the price of gas from yesterday is still 30% higher, we in Bulgaria do not have the opportunity how and how to mix and above this you do not find opportunities in how to help domestic consumers of gas, pellets, wood, everything that is related to energy. Dear colleagues, the interconnector with Greece has not been built since 2009 for various reasons, but one of the main reasons that we can say today is that the previous government has not been able to push and fight European structures, and the Greek side, so that the project can be structured so that it can be completed at a normal time. It hasn't been useful since 2009. 12 years of not having an interconnector, not having a relationship that is necessary for the diversification of the country, and today sitting down complaining about your heritage, a person shouldn't complain about his inheritance, because he gets things that he should then build on. Therefore, Mr. Minister ours, of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the view is that the project is wrongly structured, the actions and trust of the Bulgarian side to the Greek side are wrong to provide the complete construction of the line with the interconnector of the Greek side. Not taking measures in time, but the inability and how and in how to influence the management of the Project you say here yourself that you do not have the opportunity to influence the salaries of directors, and you know that salaries also come into what you trained us in a short time ago, in expenses, revenues and, of course, that money you will need to withdraw it and some of it will go there. By finishing, Minister, take very seriously the diversification of energy resources for Bulgaria. If you can't, look for help, if you can't find help there, look for help from a friend, and that's who we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u101	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Now from the BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Stoinev, come in. You have 5 minutes to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u102	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House. It is really incomprehensible to me still why GERB scored this goal and why it was necessary for the whole country to understand in detail how a project is funny. The attempt to pass the blame on the current minister, I think it is rather ridiculous because I do not think that the current government and the caretaker government can be held responsible for delaying a project by so many years. When I asked the question, I mentioned that for me personally the problem was financing the project because between 2014 and 2018 there seemed to be some stain on the financing of this project. After all, colleagues, for 220 million. EUR, provided that, with one decision of 500 million, lv. have been given for renovation of dams and we still do not know how many dams have been renovated five years, six years, seven years, eight years, ten years, and so far Bulgaria could have real diversification, but as if this was not a priority of the then management, there was a way between 2014 and 2018, as it was just clarified, finally in 2016 and 2017, I quote:............................. with immense efforts funding was found.................................. Unfortunately, this national interest may have been less protected over the years. Mr. Minister, from now on you have no right to error.. 1 July 2022 is really the date on which the interconnector should be launched. And then whatever explanations there are, because if the problem is 14? 14,5 million. EUR, because this is the maximum of compensation, more than that cannot be taken, I do not think that this is a cause for debate in the Bulgarian Parliament, all the more so that after a month we will have a debate on the budget and then we will see what billions we will distribute here in the Chamber. But the characteristic thing is that when the national interest is defended, when there is a need for funding or co-financing, it is strange how some projects immediately find money and others can wait. But, Minister, we wish you good luck. I really hope that this year the interconnector will be released whatever it takes, whatever it takes, I do not think that any legislative changes can be required, but you can rely on support from the Bulgarian Parliament anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u103	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. There is such a people? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for the information you have given in the framework of today's hearing. Because from everything that has been said in this room, once again we understand that the interconnector is also part of those projects that are being made to be made, not to be made. I'm already starting to visualize my stacks and bars drawer, which is like a collection image of all those unrealized, otherwise so-called wonderfully structured and prepared projects. So it's unnecessary to talk more. Obviously, there is no normal person who believes that when you've had the entire executive and legislative power for 12 years, here you're taking out nine wells of water to explain how someone else is responsible for the 12-year delay of a project that you're supposed to be implementing in your 12-year government. I don't think there's a normal person who feels that the fault of slowing down is at least yours and the current government. I think the reasons for the delay in this project are yet to come, all the ambiguities about its financing, its structuring and so on. Keep up the good work, bravely, without worrying, you have our support, so everything you need will be done to see the light of day at last this project!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to wish you luck because you need it. The question of the interconnector and the construction of the gas interconnector with Greece is a strategic issue The facts are as follows: when there was political will, the Turkish stream was built in one year, despite all the complications. The Greek gas connection was not built for 12 years because it did not have the political desire obviously to build it. There's no other explanation. Everything else is just bullshit. Now the question is this political will to emerge categorically. We congratulate you on the fact that links have been made with the Greek Government. Yeah, that's mandatory. The next step, however, is to ask for the support of the European Commission Because the key to us is this project in 2022. I won't mention months to be built. It's like a stress test for the new government, because in order for this gas connection to be gone, ladies and gentlemen, one of the reasons is that there are many important international factors that didn't want it to be there. Those international factors that didn't want her are still there! But if we show will, a new path and take the necessary measures, it will be built. Yes, the European Commission's involvement is key. Next, we now need to have talks with Russia about a new natural gas supply contract. It was good to have a gas connection with Greece, which is a symbol of the alternative and the possibility of buying another gas all the time. But these negotiations, Minister, my advice to you is first to try to change the current approach of long-term contracts, that is to move towards shorter and flexible contracts, so that Bulgaria can buy what is most profitable on the market, and that there are no such clauses that lead to long-term ties, and that Bulgaria does not have moves to be able to diversify supplies and prices according to the most advantageous in the relevant situation. And another thing. Tell you what the bad script is! The bad scenario is to come July month, middle of the year or end of the year, and back here there's an excuse that something didn't happen. When I asked at least three times the minister of service for energy, the man tried to be useful indeed, by the way, and he said: "There is a delay in the delivery of parts. So all these attempts to delay will continue to exist. Therefore, outside the European Commission's inclusion, I personally believe that since this is subject to national security, it is also good for the SANS to participate. And not to bother them with reading contracts, as some try to do, but precisely on these key projects for the country that lead to real diversification, they have order, attitude and help. That's why we need them there. Again, this project is part of national security, here we need their assistance and assistance. So the strategic objective we are setting, I want to stop asking myself this summer after my hundred questions on this subject, Mr. Minister. This summer should be the first deliveries on the gas interconnector in question. The project company must make written commitments if they can overcome the delay, commit to deadlines. Because my experience with the hundred questions I've asked on the subject shows that something has always slowed down, something has always happened, it's unexpected. So 12 years! Again, I see your new approach. I see you've drawn the Prime Minister into the subject, which is correct and very smart, because this can't just be your commitment. Ask for the strong support of the Energy Commission in Parliament, which I think will stand almost unanimously behind you, and things must happen. Again, this is the big stress test. If this gas connection is built this year, people see lower prices, they see diversification, they see results, that's what it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. And from rebirth? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u108	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! What we've heard here is extremely disturbing. It's not new, of course. For us, what was the most terrifying thing was to hear about the lost benefits for just last year, which with a very rough bill may be approaching, if not exceeding half a billion leva, according to what was said here with the figure of 1.5 million. lv. He lost only a day, roughly, roughly. At the cost of the Project, which is just over 400 million. BGN, and for this whole nearly 10-year period in which it is being built, these are monstrous losses. That's a crime. However, we do not think that here we can blame only and only on the classical Bulgarian homelessness, because there is no habberish, but I want to fix your attention and the attention of the Bulgarians who are currently looking in another direction, which somehow escapes and as if we were the only ones staring at it. First, when the negotiations for the construction of this gas connection began, as early as 2009, 2010, 2011, the first thing the Bulgarian country had set up was to build the link between the Tower and the old Bulgarian city of Valovista, to which the Greeks today say Siddirocastro. The Greeks then declined with 1,100 arguments, and it is a fact that we cannot change them after all, as we are talking about an international treaty and a relationship that concerns two countries. They insisted on making the connection between Stara Zagora and Gumurjina, to which the Greeks called Komotini. What if, this year, we, after I really hope, are able to force the construction, are able to finish our precinct? The Greeks fall behind, which is paradoxical against the backdrop of their stretch being in times shorter and less complex than ours. Realistically, they have 30 kilometers to build, and they're not ready yet. The former Minister Andrei Zhivkov said this thing, and the current minister we heard, saying that there are problems with them too. On top of that, as you can see, the company that builds the Bulgarian section and it is Greek. On top of that, I would like to remind you that there were scandals with this a long time ago, when the Bulgarian state had paid the Greek contractor the corresponding sums, but the Greeks had not paid them to their Bulgarian subcontractors and then the Bulgarian subcontractors had threatened with strike if I am not mistaken, even they were on strike at one time, I might be wrong. All this comes to suggest that this is a much more serious foreign policy gambit in which Bulgaria loses once again, as always in the Balkans in the last 80 years! Greece has no interest in Bulgaria having access to cheap Azeri gas. Usually in Bulgaria, what is said is that Russia has no interest in building this relationship because... right, clearly why.. because we are dependent on Russia in terms of gas imports. However, the truth is that Greece is also not interested because Greece is currently the gas distribution base for the export of Azeri gas to South and Central Europe. As soon as this facility is built, Bulgaria will be able to intervene in this market and perhaps if we are flexible enough, of course, and if we upgrade our system, perhaps we can steal part of the transit that passes through Greece. Are we the only ones who see that in this case we are also talking about a very well refined diplomatic action carried out by our southern neighbour? From this point of view, the first question we asked was important because one question was about the lost benefits, but it was also important the question of how things were going in the Greek country. When the Greeks themselves cannot build their own section, of course, for a number of reasons, most likely all of them sound and reliable, we can fall into a situation where we will build our own section, we will build our stations along the road and along the route, but we will be in the situation that we have already been in for 20 years after 1997, when the first contracts between Bulgaria and Greece were signed to restore closed cross-border links after the Second World War we 20 years cannot restore them! Here we are still waiting for the opening of the border crossings, which is the most important because it opens the Rhodopes. This is the central road from Plovdiv smolyan to Xanthi. The Old Belomor Drum is not yet open because of the Greeks. We did it years ago. The same work was with Makaza, the same work was with Zlatograd, the same work was with the Ilinden. You remember, he's been delayed there for years because of a bear tunnel, and there haven't been bears in the area for decades. The same thing was even with Ivaylovgrad's little tourist checkpoint! These things are important to say here, from this tribune, because if we pretend that we do not see what our neighbours are doing, they will continue even more brazenly and even more strongly to violate our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. With this, we have exhausted item one of the agenda. I'll give you 30 minutes off, then we'll proceed with the Home Secretary's hearing. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u110	We continue the meeting with item two of the agenda for today: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS ON THE BASIS. 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORKING OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING ON THE ADVANTAGES IN THE MIRROR, THE PRODUCERS AND THE RESULTS OF SUCH RELATED TO THE DISCLOSURE OF RESTRUCTIONS IN THE RESTRUCTURING OF PROFESSIONAL SECTIONS FOR PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES RECEIVED ON 11 JULY 2021, AND THE SELECTIONS FOR PRESENT AND VICENT AND FOR PEOPLE'S PRESENTED REPRESENTATIVES, RECEIVED ON 14 NOVEMBER 2021. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u111	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u112	You are welcome for a declaration, then, Mrs. Tsoneva, you will present the subject matter of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our statement today will be emotional, but it was also born by one, I'd say, a bad incident that the media filed yesterday as information along with video footage about the aggression of a bunch of young people over an innocent child. That was about ten people against one person, and that's probably what they're looking at on the side and filming, just as indifferently as if the whole thing was directed to show off, and those dozens were hitting and kicking that kid. And the scarier thing is that in this beating, and this aggression involved a girl, and with her fists she brought out her aggression on one, most likely, classmate of hers. Ten against one! They go around him and kick him, and they push him around. And somehow it's not gonna freeze me. Because aggression was deliberate and purposeful and sure, if they had a little more time and had no witnesses, it could have come to the worst. After studying, it turned out that in recent times it has become modern for teenagers to join groups of types of bands, to gather in groups of 20, to put on hoods and to tour the local neighborhood to do pacities. Only it's not mischief. This is a deliberate assault on a defenseless child ten against one!? And here is the place to ask why, in recent months, the responsibility of the Interior Minister in ensuring the security of our children is somehow neglecting? Or perhaps, attracted by the fantastic series of thefts, robberies, scratching and suggestion of wiretapping, causing fear and psychosis, the minister leaves aside the so important topics related to the reduction of violence the role of his institution to protect our children from being beaten and abused, from aggression, from aimless expression of unceremonious aggression towards statehood, of non-compliance with the country's laws, of human relations between people. GERB-SDS parliamentary group condemns the violence of children against children, condemns the manifestation of aggression that could cost innocent lives. So here we will ask both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education and the State Agency for Child Protection why this was allowed to happen; what actions have been taken; why have these cases, instead of being prevented, become so frequent that they have become daily, see and see violence on a daily basis, and sometimes fatal in schools, because in recent months statistics are complemented by the latest victim of a child, woman or family member? According to data from a UNICEF survey, every second child until the age of 18 in Bulgaria has experienced some form of violence, in most cases it is emotional. In addition, more than 20 women lost their lives in 2021 due to murder by their spouse or partner. Somehow after what happened, or put in the column, it happened, I'm thinking that maybe by bringing in the Harvard experience, we've also had a little taste of the Bronx. If the gangs have become modern change, what can we wait for tomorrow? Ladies and gentlemen, today we are only asking and will propose a solution, but before that we will expect instant responses from the responsible managers of changing Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u114	Now move on to the item on the agenda. Here you are, Mrs. Tsoneva, to justify your request for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have challenged this hearing because I believe that the issue of the honesty of the electoral process is very important and I could never agree with the statement of colleagues in this part of the Chamber. [[shows left]] That the elections have passed and we have nothing to waste more time dealing with them. No, this is not the case, because the mobile section election committees, which were the phenomenon of practices to circumvent engine voting, violation of electoral rights, July and November elections, are something that all of you who have appeared in the electoral regions, such as Razgrad, Kardzhali, Pazardzhik, I am from this electoral area, Shumen, Silistra, Targovishte, Haskovo, Blagoevgrad, could not have failed to notice what was happening in the creation of these sections. Yes, there is a phenomenon because, from the 2017 elections to the 2021 elections, the number of people who voted in such sections has increased twice. For example, I can give you the city of Varbitsa in the Shumen constituency, where the moving sections of the mobile polling stations, excuse me, are more than the other sections. Or Stambolovo in Haskovo's constituency, where more than 50% of voters voted in mobile polling stations. Or Black Eyes and Kirkovo in Kardzhaliysko, where nearly 40% of voters voted in such sections. In these polling areas I have listed, 44% of all mobile polling stations in the country are concentrated, although the population there is 7% of the national population. For example, I can give you that in Sofia-city there are 15 such sections, and in Plovdiv there are 4 in Plovdiv, while in Kubrat, in Isperih, in these municipalities there are almost every locality. I took the liberty of challenging this hearing because from colleagues in this part of the Chamber was heard in the election campaign in July, and then that there was terror by the Ministry of Interior of People with TelK and because I could never accept such a claim, this must be investigated. [[shows left]] That is why I ask and ask for a hearing of the Minister of Interior: what is happening with the ongoing checks, which has been reported in the media, pre-trial proceedings and other actions by signaling me myself, because I have also issued signals in my electoral area concerning the municipalities of Batak and Sarnitsa, and I have exactly such a thick folder of evidence; how have documents been received by people who show that whole families and families are disabled, because the files I have on my files show the same names; the epicrises that have been accepted exist with people who made, for example, 2018 pneumonia, and such a document has been accepted as valid when finding such a section; or TELKs for people with hypertension and so on? [[shows]] This issue is very important because the creation of these sections is very important. Any form of vote that enables people to reach and participate in the electoral process is extremely important. We, from the "Democratic Bulgaria" very much hold on to this, even in the 45th National Assembly, amendment to the Election Code, which gives people an even better opportunity to apply for such sections through electronic forms of declaration, but that is why today it is important to establish: was there an abuse of the opening of such sections in order to control the vote of certain groups of voters; were there cases where documents from TELK have been accepted and so on that do not comply with the meaning of the law, namely that people should have permanent disabilities, for which they should not reach these sections? That's why I challenged this hearing, and I see that Mr. Karadaye is also going to be involved with questions, which is why I thank you. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] [[Replications by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi: "Yes, of course! "]] I guess this is important and it'll be interesting. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. The Minister of Interior is now entitled to a 10-minute exhibition. [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye, in a moment you will be able to speak from the stands and everyone to hear what you are preparing. Mr. Rashkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mrs. Tsoneva! Yes, the issue is up-to-date, and we will have to begin its clarification in plenary, although the time I have is too little to discuss all areas of the country. Matter's pretty voluminous. It's true, I got acquainted with an analysis given to me by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Pazardzhik. You've asked there several times and you've been answered. There are really interesting findings there, especially for the municipality of Sarnitsa. But, I think, first of all, I have to say that during the July elections this year, more than 202 items were registered in the regional directorates on alerts for violations in the detection of mobile polling stations. In November, these findings, these files are already 287, and in one case, the first in June, 38 pre-trial proceedings were initiated only on this occasion, and in November, 18 pre-trial proceedings. I would like to point out, although it is known, pre-trial proceedings cannot be initiated in principle without the prosecution's intervention. The prosecution shall be the authority which shall initiate pre-trial proceedings when it finds that there is evidence of a criminal offence of a general nature, in that case. There is an opportunity for this to happen with urgent action by the police authorities, but there are fewer cases. I would like to stop your attention, above all, on cases such as in Haskovo. In Haskovo, in connection with the July parliamentary elections this year, for example, several municipalities carried out checks on the employees of the Ministry of Interior and found that there were registered persons who applied for voting with mobile sections, if I may say so, in many cases there was a signal of doubt about the total 798 such applications in various municipalities there. On this occasion, an inspection has been initiated and, for example, it has been found in the municipality of Mineral Baths that those in mobile polling stations have wished to vote 313 of whom 20 without any medical documents presented. In the municipality of Stambolovo have expressed a desire for 351 persons to vote in this way, according to their health condition, but in respect of seven of these persons, no applications from this municipality have been submitted at all. There are in some cases 71 of the persons in this municipality, the same, have submitted documents with expired validity. 273 with phased expertise are presented. Frankly, I can't explain further what that mattered to the inspection, of course. In total, as statistics in this regard, registered as non-compliant persons to vote in this light order are: in the Mineral Baths, 170 persons, Stambolovo, 280 persons, and naturally there is a legal qualification of the act which the authorities of pre-trial proceedings found there. I'll leave that to you without comment. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to almost identical cases in Razgrad. A total of 188 cases have been examined in Razgrad. Of these 148 checks on applications materials and 40 such registered files in relation to the election of MPs on 11 July and in relation to data on the fact that the signature submitted to a voting application in this way by a moving section was not submitted by the person whose name bears the application itself. Many of the materials have been sent to the prosecution, on the basis of which the prosecution has formed 26 pre-trial proceedings, which, of course, have investigated 13 of them in Isperih, three in Kubrat, six in Razgrad District Management, four in the Loznitsa District Department. I would like to say a few things about these checks carried out in Razgrad region. Medical documents with false content are issued so that such registration can be made of those willing to vote in that order. On this occasion, the cases have been brought against both those who issued the medical documents and against the officials of the municipalities who registered these documents to those who wish to vote. I will not, I stress, not a single refusal given by the prosecution. There's no denying it! In the course of the checks, police officers have encountered gross violations, fracking violations, as many of the citizens they have spoken to have found that these citizens have not applied for voting in a mobile section. The signatures shown on the applications, they said they weren't theirs. The same person issued a huge number of false documents. Some of them, of course, stated that they did not know the doctor who issued the medical certificate or document and that they had not contacted their doctor for two or three years or more. As a response, I regret to say this, as the bitterness of the employees of the Ministry of Interior is enormous, in the Regional Directorate of the Interior with the Director, the Head of Staff has appeared to the Management Representatives of the Department of Rights and Freedoms. The regional director has been threatened with harsh threats, including the fact that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to take action, including, notice, civil arrests of officers from the Ministry of Interior for doing their job. [[DPS lines.]] In the meantime, signals have been received in the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate, complaints against actions of police officers, for example in the municipality of Kubrat. In the course of the checks, it has been found that there are no record of violations committed by police officers. In addition, the applicants point out in their explanations that they have not been threatened or offended by the police, have not violated their rights, have not asked, have not noticed, and regret that they have lodged complaints on their behalf. Signals are written by lawyers they don't know. In the same style I would like to say a few things about Targovishte district. There's more... [[Displays from DPS: "Search! "]] Mr. Chairman, if we run out of time...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u118	There's gonna be a lot of questions and answers. Maybe later...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u119	Yeah, that's what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u120	...later you'll add whatever it takes. We are now moving on to questions from the parliamentary groups. First, there is an opportunity. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The topic is very important, as Mrs Tsoneva said, because with the introduction of the machine voting and the lack or, more precisely, the lack of limiting the voting by paper, because we know that there are formations in this House that are virtuososes of the voting by paper, the system of bought, controlled and dependent vote as a whole, we had to find some way to compensate for this vote. I would like to congratulate Minister Rashkov because he has made twice a very good effort to limit this vote. And my question is related to whether in the Ministry of Interior there is a legal analysis of dependence between sections and municipalities, where there is a high risk of controlled, bought and dependent vote, and an increase in voting in mobile sections, which actually allow such a vote that may be dependent, can be bought, can be controlled, depending on the situation, whether the Ministry of Interior has been doing such an analysis in order to confirm municipalities and sections in which this risk is much greater and the efforts of the Ministry of Interior should be concentrated in order to prevent such practices that have been practiced for maybe 32 years in Bulgaria and more? Is such an analysis done and what measures would you take as a minister, since you started this fight, but it will not end only with these two choices that have passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor to answer, Minister, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ananiev, yes, we are analyzing these violations that we find in our work around and after the election process. I say "after" because sometimes the data on crimes and violations committed in connection with the elections took place a little later. There is such a case, such pre-trial proceedings, for example, which we have reflected here, which was carried out during the April elections, but the data came later and the investigation began, of course, later. And since the subject is related to the mobile polling stations, we could say more generally that in pre-trial proceedings the record holder is currently Razgrad. Razgrad's the record guy. There are 26 pre-trial proceedings in place, I stress, of which as a number, it is very important to say, 17 numbers are pre-trial proceedings, formed not by the Ministry of Interior, but by the Prosecutor's Office in Razgrad, and the 9 have started in urgent circumstances by police officers. So, if there is criticism, honourable Members, of the legal actions of the Ministry of Interior in Razgrad for these 9 pre-trial cases which have begun under the urgency of what they are entitled to do, it is only right that those who criticise the authorities of the Ministry of Interior should make the same critical remarks, even more serious, to the prosecution which has initiated pre-trial proceedings. There are 17 of them. To take responsibility from Prosecutor General Geshev why he thus allowed prosecutors in the district of Razgrad to initiate pre-trial proceedings against persons who have benefited from this assistance, and have used, in general, false documents concerning the submission of applications for elections in this order. I believe that this is logical and it would be fair to our society when MPs from one political party or another criticize the actions of the Ministry of Interior, behold, to be so good to give criticism to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. I say this, of course, with irony and quotes, because such behaviour would mean a political action against the law in the country. [[Replying from Mustafa Karadaye.]] Even if someone is here in this Chamber as a representative of the National Assembly, they have no right to question...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u124	Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u125	...does not have the right to criticize the legal actions of state authorities, even more the prosecution, which is an independent body in our country. It would be interesting to tell you something about Targovishte. Didn't we get that far?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u126	Yeah, you'll have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u127	It's faster here, because there are five out of 12 applications made in connection with an infringement on this subject. There have been five pre-trial proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u128	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u129	These five pre-trial proceedings are known to be initiated and formed on the basis of legal grounds, as stated in art. 208 of the Criminal Procedure Code there writes the reasons, study at the university and then apply in practice. Of these five pre-trial proceedings there are in Popovo, there are in Omurtag in Popovo is one, there are three in Omurtag. I want to increase your attention in both Popovo and Omurtag have ended up with a court decision which has been recognised as committing a crime. This is not up to the police authorities, but depends on the Bulgarian court. In addition, he has decided to continue the procedure and the relevant monitoring prosecutor. He has imported the materials into the competent court under art. 78a of the Penal Code, considered that there were prerequisites and brought the materials there. Not the police, not the authorities of the Ministry of Interior! They don't have that kind of authority. This is a recognition that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have gathered the necessary evidence, which is sufficient for the court to rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u130	We can deduct it from your next answer, but if you want to continue after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u131	No, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u132	Second question from GERB's parliamentary group? I won't. From the DPS? Here, you have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are holding a hearing of the Minister of Interior with regard to received signals in the Ministry of Interior. I am bruised on received signals, issued checks and their results concerning the elections on 11 July and 14 November, of course, for MPs, president and vice president when electoral sections are revealed. According to generally accepted standards, I will add even human standards, the degree of civilization, the welfare, the tolerance of a state, even of a society, is assessed in terms of the treatment of the weakest, vulnerable or, more precisely, of people with a type and degree of disability or with a loss of percentage of productivity, people with special needs. The rules, colleagues, for revealing moving sections are decided precisely and clearly in the Election Code who, when, how can reveal election sections. I am convinced, completely convinced that Minister Rashkov knows in detail the Election Code. These sections I am talking about mobile ones are revealed on the basis of requests received from the municipal administration, on the basis of documents issued by a special committee called TELMK, or on the basis of a medical certificate. For statistic................................................................................................ is not................................................................. More than 14 thousand Bulgarian citizens have applied for voting in a mobile section. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is: how many Bulgarian citizens with disabilities, I repeat, who are disabled, or who are sick with the CIVID-19, have received signals that they are wrongfully included to vote in a mobile section or those who do not want to vote or are not included in such a section, I repeat............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Did you, as a principal of the Ministry of Interior, personally order written or oral employees of the Ministry of Interior to enter the homes of Bulgarian citizens to check such documents?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's too common, vague. I can answer with one sentence, I can answer with more.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u136	As you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u137	How many signals, checks, I said something just now. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u138	Please don't call from a place, colleagues from the DPS!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u139	Of course, Bulgarian citizens, not foreign citizens, can send signals and so on. That's not a question of any importance, I'd say. [[Applause from DPS.]] Whether the files, whether pre-trial proceedings have started on the signals of Bulgarian citizens, or are revealed by other means by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, I cannot tell you this and it is not so important. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u140	Please, Mr. Karadaye, you haven't stopped yelling! You know it's wrong. You will have the opportunity to express your attitude at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u141	Regarding the last part of the question, whether I gave an order to enter the homes of Bulgarian citizens. I think that an average intelligent person knows that the Minister of Interior is a political person. He does not give such orders. This is done by the employees of the Ministry of Interior when there are relevant prerequisites provided for in the Law. And entering a foreign residence is regulated as prerequisites and as conditions in the Bulgarian Constitution. Read and learn! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u142	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Now it is the turn of the BSP for Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Kletchkov, for a question of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question to you is: how do you evaluate the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, rather the joint work with the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, specifically for 14 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kletchkov. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Klechkov, I believe that with regard to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior the assessment of their activities in relation to the elections is positive from the Bulgarian society and the majority of Bulgarian parties with representation in parliament, of course, and outside the parliament. With regard to the joint work with the prosecution, I would say the following: the joint work, coordination and so on between the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution is on average good level. I wouldn't applaud her from the point of view of the Ministry of Interior as well as from the prosecution's point of view. I wouldn't overestimate either side. I am quite critical, quite demanding about the work of both institutions. I make it public sometimes and take very effective personnel measures at the Ministry of Interior on the quality of work, on the timely performance of duties. The same way I treat the D.A. I therefore say that I cannot give a high appreciation of the interaction between two institutions which do not meet the criteria to be met. For example, in 25 cases, 25 cases cannot be kept intact from 2018 to this day in the prosecutor's office. You can't! I cannot be pleased when these cases are not in the courtroom, the accused are not convicted and are not where they belong where the Bulgarian court has sent them and continue to commit crimes in our society. They're all around us. At the same time, of course, I cannot be satisfied with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, who do not take timely action, have waited for years to commit crimes at high levels in our country and come that humiliating moment when a foreign state tells us who are corrupt and who are not corrupt under the global law. Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u146	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Do you have a next question? I don't see any interest. So, then, Democratic Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for having asked you, within the last parliament, a question about the controlled and bought vote in my constituency, Stara Zagora, and I have received a very comprehensive answer, for which I really do thank you. My question is again related to the electoral region of Stara Zagora. As far as I can see, you have specific data for the last elections: can they be concluded on the basis of them the situation in Stara Zagora for the controlled vote, for the use of mobile polling stations as a form of controlled vote, for which I have received signals and messages? How do you even investigate this issue? I would like to make a statement at this stage that the Ministry of Interior is very sustainable, consistently acting against the controlled and bought vote, but when the folders end up in the prosecution, it seems there is blocking the process. I don't know if it's the right conclusion, but I get that impression. That is, again, the weak link is the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u148	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, yes, we are not only carefully monitoring the abuse of the bought vote, but perhaps for the first time in a decade we are taking quite clear measures that stem from our obligations under law. The controlled vote is intelligent as a concept of crimes related to the electoral rights of Bulgarian citizens. Some political parties buy the votes of Bulgarian citizens. They're buying! I've got some pictures here... in the folder, in the folder, I've got some pictures, some indicative pictures. [[Replications by National Representative Mustafa Karadayi]] The question is not that he was selling votes there, that he would go to court, yes, there are, and sentences are already there, but who gave them these funds? And what else is less important about how these funds have been acquired? How did they get it? [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u150	In the manner of conduct then, Mr. Karadayi, if you will. I'll read art. 153, you're forcing me to make you a note, Mr... [[(Reply from National Representative Mustafa Karadayi: I will leave!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u151	Well, it's your right to leave. Please, Mr. Rashkov, continue. [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye, please let the Minister continue his work and his exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u152	What I can tell you, Mr. Slavov, about your constituency, you have received our response in detail, written, is this: Unfortunately, we have differences in election data on April 4th. In July and November the data are different. This is known to the whole society. We have done what is necessary to inform that we have established dozens of times an increase in the number of violations, which we have not only established, but have proved, have initiated pre-trial proceedings and have handed them over to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. There in the region of Stara Zagora, there is a particularly active area around Gurkovo. An active area, a commercial area that increases its trade turnover, political auctions in relation to the elections mainly. And there, according to our data, the most active political traders are the representatives of that party, which is led by this district representative who has just left the Chamber. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u153	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. You have the floor now to speak in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov. Then prepare for rebirth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u154	Mr. Chairman, step by step. Chronologically. Since I know that you have been elected from the Yambol multi-mandated electoral area, please stick to the agenda and, speaking of which, let's start at Nerde Yambol, Nerde Stambol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u155	Nice connection you guys made. [[Radio, applause, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u156	Mr. Chairman, you have allowed the debate to put equality between the people with disabilities and the bought voters, something that is absolutely unacceptable. And the MPs did it, and the minister did it calmly. Secondly, when there is a hearing, let there be questions and answers. We're not here for mutual admiration. When we pass the ball, we say how cool work you do, and the man is in charge, in this case the minister. Yes, he does a very good job and tells his stories by spinning his crank from morning to night what is beneficial to him and of course, when he comes to responsibility, the man says: but I made political statements. It's clear that we're not doing a hearing here for a minister. We're doing a hearing here about politics. And on the latter, that he allowed himself to accuse the chairman of a party of something that he very well knows is defamation, but he will still get away with: but I have made political statements here is already the end of the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u158	And it seems to me that you should protect parliamentaryism in Bulgaria so that every next Tsvetanov, Rashkov, Tsvetanov, Rashkov and the next one after them and make policy here, blame doctors, politicians and then Bulgaria to be tried in Strasbourg while enjoying their good property well-being. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u159	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. I hope that we will all take an appropriate note from what you have said and proceed now with a question from the Parliamentary Group of Revival. Is there one? I can't see. Then we continue the Change. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! With regard to the media information that mayors and municipal councillors were illegally involved in the electoral process, were pre-trial proceedings initiated, and did some of them end up pressing charges against officials and in connection with crimes committed in connection with applications for voting with a mobile electoral box and followed a vote with one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u161	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Here you are, Minister, if you can answer that question. Now some of the questions are quite specific, I suppose there would be a need for further reference if necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Stoev! Yes, your question is quite specific, I would find it difficult at the moment to give you the name of such a person, and it does not seem very appropriate from the stand to give names to people who are attracted as accused, because the criminal trial is usually long, long, there is no telling what will happen in the proceedings, the person can be justified and then we will be in an awkward situation. It's not usually right, even if I know this case. But if I have to answer the earlier statement... Mr. Chairman, they're afraid maybe, but if it's right, I'll answer it, if not, I'll answer it outside. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] [[DRF lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u163	It wasn't a question for you specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u164	It's not for me, but I, according to this statement, am spreading slander here. Just something educational: slander is when the claim is false. Thank you. Article 147, 148 of the Penal Code. [[(Noise and lines from DPS, applause from]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u166	Read, read. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u167	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Now, a question from the Political Party GERB? I can't see. Then we move on to the DPS. You have the floor, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Boyko Iliev Rashkov, Bulgaria is a party to major international treaties regarding the conduct of free and democratic elections, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the European Convention on Human Rights and others, which ensure the participation of disabled citizens in the electoral process. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe in its July elections report says that authorities should take measures to improve the participation of voters with physical disabilities, ensuring that the premises and arrangements of the polling stations are suitable for self-access, and functionality for the access of voting machines, for voters with visual and auditory difficulties, Mr. Ananiev should also be provided. As Mrs. Tsoneva presented herself in her own presentation as an expert on the electoral process and I quote: her cause is that all Bulgarian citizens can exercise their rights as voters, something which, by the way, is guaranteed by the Constitution and is now mandatory according to the Election Code, my question is Boyko Iliev Rashkov, as a member of the Council of Ministers, who is appointed to be responsible for the electoral process, but not as Minister of Interior, I stress, but also to Mrs. Antoaneta Tsoneva, because today this is a common active event of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u169	You can't ask questions to Mrs. Tsoneva, you will challenge a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u170	Since they both pass the ball, whoever answers from both of us, we know it's both of them, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for joining us. So, what have you contributed to people with disabilities so that they can fully implement their obligations to vote according to the obligation of art. 3 of the Election Code, have you spoken to their organizations, and have you heard their voice?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u171	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Here you are, Mr. Rashkov, perhaps because the procedure does not imply questions to MPs. [[Replications from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]] Maybe after Mr. Rashkov you should consider explaining yourself, because you weren't too affected?! [[Replications from the National Representative Antoaneta Tsoneva.]] Okay, if you insist, I must, but let's go after Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some things are said here about people with disabilities. Let someone not imagine that they are more concerned with people with disabilities than some others. For example, here several times already in the speeches of representatives of the House of Rights and Freedoms, they almost do not want to say to the Bulgarian public: we are the only ones and others are not. From the government and especially the Minister of Interior, he does not think about the citizens, the disabled people, who during the elections I would add and not only during the elections, their life is at all more difficult than the healthy people in this there is no doubt, and any normal person would pay attention to it. The law has paid attention, it has given these people the opportunity to vote in mode so that they exercise a fundamental constitutional right. This is, of course, realized, carried out in the course of the elections, no one is questioning the right and that efforts are being made in this direction. The employees of the Ministry of Interior guard the polling stations. This is known, including in the hypothesis where they should be voted in a place where a person lives, where he resides and naturally that we should go to him, as he cannot come to the polling section. The officers of the Ministry of Interior are guarding the sections. This gives them the opportunity, however, Mrs. Tsoneva, you have asked and before that in writing, this gives them the opportunity to see the person who voted with a mobile urn or section. We have described two cases where it is obviously not about a disabled person who cannot go to the polling section where healthy people vote. They're described by the persons who guarded the polling section. They did not enter the home of these persons because the voter was in the yard, with an apology in front of the whole public, and he cut his wood so much he was severely healthy. So there are also curious cases, and this is from the district of Sarnitsa Municipality two or three cases there are described there similar, but they, of course, do not define the image of the picture of the voting with such polling stations. There we and our work is like the Ministry of Interior on signals, in information about crimes that are committed under the pretext that a person is difficult and has to vote on this order, to check and we have done just that. And here I see no reproach in the actions of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. And don't give them any undue criticism. They are employees of the Ministry of Interior, they are not of Boyko Rashkov, they are not of Mustafa Karadayi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u173	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. Now for a personal explanation, Mrs. Tsoneva. However, they doubted your effectiveness in dealing with people with disabilities. You have to protect yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Anastasov, you act as if we really put salt in your coffee, as Mr. Karadayi said, when our campaigns met in Sarnitsa and when we said there was no next time to allow in this area this way to organise elections in certain parts. Yes, we are concerned about the rights of disabled people, and for this reason, as I said in my opening statement, in the forty-fifth Parliament, it is our proposal to submit electronic applications so that mobile polling stations can be revealed, which is a convenience for disabled people. And yes, we are concerned about the right of every Bulgarian to vote and this applies to my cause both in the country and abroad. That is why we are the biggest supporters of this part of the hall "Democratic Bulgaria" for falling on the threshold of the sections, something you should be able to appreciate in any case. Yes, we are interested in the rights and legitimate interests of all groups of Bulgarian voters, but no, we will not agree to abuse their rights because in Razgradsko, when July 2,500 applications for disclosure of such sections have been submitted, statistics at NSI indicate that there are 1800 people, because you are playing with the data...........................................................................................................................................! Thank you for your interest. Thank you. I really think it is important that people with disabilities and all other stakeholders have very good access and that institutions actually provide conditions under which these rights are not abused.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] Maybe after that, Mr. Anastasov, you'll have a chance. Now you doubted the NSI's data. The Bulgarian BSP has the opportunity to ask a second question. There's no desire. There is such a people? Same. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! However, it is clear from this debate today that much more detailed regulation in legislation is necessary, which persons with disabilities should benefit from the right to vote with mobile sections, because the current regulation clearly allows for abuse. This is generally understood and I think there is enough information in the public domain on the subject. But my question is another. Since I lived in Razgrad years ago, I was also director of the Regional Directorate of Home Affairs there, I have contacts with this area. During the November elections, I received numerous signals from this area that, at election events, rallies or meetings by some political forces, leaders of political forces have called on citizens to make civil arrests in respect of police officers. I don't know how that sounds to you, but this, by the way, was also reflected in the media. My question, Mr. Minister, is it on these signals that checks have been carried out? Because it is a call for violence and it is a composite act under the Penal Code, and it is in relation to officials. Have such checks been carried out and what is the result of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u177	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, yes, that's true. I had the opportunity, speaking of Razgrad, to share with the people's representation the information that really in this area, after checks have been carried out, one of the management of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms with its associates................................................................................... how to call them, co-Part-partys, or no matter with the Director of the Director of Raz......................................................................................................................................... [[Relations from MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u179	Please, Mr. Karadaye, answer a question that is asked!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u180	...for civil arrests. Can you imagine?! [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u181	Same point.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u182	On the occasion of this exercise of legal powers by officials of the Ministry of Interior, a political party opposes them to carry out their duties with threats and threats to civil arrests, after which this same political party at other times accuses the employees of the Ministry of Interior and others that almost someone is trying to provoke an ethnic conflict in our country. It seems to me that all of you and those Bulgarian citizens who are watching and listening to us right now are very well aware of who is the one who wants and provokes such a conflict. These are by no means the employees of the Ministry of Interior. This has become public, Mr. Atanasov, in Razgrad. All people have been or a multitude of people have witnessed these threats. Measures should have taken the D.A.'s office in Razgrad, it seems to me, because the D.A. is the one that would have been more impartial and objective, not the Ministry itself taking measures and making inquiries about what a politician has made as a threat to our employee. So there, I think, I do not know until today that someone has taken such action by the District Attorney's Office in Razgrad, although I will repeat once again, the interaction with the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior in Razgrad is at a level because we have said that there have been the most cases of crimes against the political rights of citizens, the most crimes have been revealed with the presentation of false documents, including medical ones before these committees, for which it has been explained in detail here what the procedure was and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u183	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. My colleagues are right about getting out of the scope of the matter. For a personal explanation or a way to conduct yourself? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye. You weren't in part of the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the manner of holding, I ask you aloud to read the item on the agenda, because on several occasions you are trying to make a remark to Members of the National Assembly who are asking you from the place what item on the agenda we are on. Because the topics we're listening to right now, I can't find them on the agenda, Mr. Chairman. Read out loud the point to know what the item on the agenda is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u185	I suppose you'd like to see if I can read. I'll do it. After all, I can't say no to such a request. The item on the agenda reads:? Hearing of the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov about the signals received in the Ministry of Interior, the checks awarded and their results related to the detection of violations in the opening of mobile polling stations for the elections for MPs held on 11 July 2021, and the elections for President and Vice President and MPs held on 14 November 2021.? Now I can now ask for the last question to be asked from the AGE. I had two minutes to comment on your behavior on this point, Mr. Karadayi. Another parliamentary group, I'd say, approach it smarter. Come in for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate you on the work done during the elections. I can imagine the environment you work in. My question lies in this, and I will try to be on the subject. We have heard of violations, we have heard of case files, checks, proceedings, have we heard enough information in my opinion regarding signals relating to people with disabilities to be on the subject, but my question is: does the Ministry consider, in view of all this information that we have heard today with colleagues, is it planning to undertake any legislative changes in the Elections or in the Criminal Code, as my personal belief is that the legislative framework in Chapter Three, Section III of the Criminal Code of Criminal Crimes against the political rights of citizens has been frozen in 2015, when it is the last amendment, and from what we are hearing today, I remain at least with the personal belief that these processes are clearly mass and these processes seem to precede the legislative penalty. In view of this, I would also like to know if the Ministry of Interior considers there is an attitude for a legislative initiative to make the election process more transparent? Of course, by preventing all that we have heard today from you and as questions from some colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u187	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Petrov, first of all, thank you for the assessment you give to the work of the Ministry of Interior authorities. On the question of whether we intend to propose changes to the Criminal Code, we have not so far anticipated this, but we are working on other projects. Under the draft amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, because I believe that the framework in Chapter 3 is relatively new, it seems to me that it has not yet been sufficiently verified in practice. It is only right that if we proceed to such ideas, to discuss them for changes, to have practice, it is a small practice. Often, the penalties imposed by judges are liberal, I would call them generally, such as not assessing the danger. The public danger of this category of acts still in our country by fellow Members, especially judges, and that through these acts, including what we are commenting on here today, you see forgeries of documents by which we record a person voting as having such order of voting and so on. And some tolerate it that there may almost be violations in this regard. You can see the attitude of even political representatives here in this Chamber. And I think we need to summarize the practice and see if we really need to correct that part of the Penal Code governing this new relatively recent matter. As for the PPC, if I have time, Mr. Chairman, can I just say two or three sentences?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u189	You have about three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u190	Given the prosecution's behaviour in some cases, I say, where trials are delayed for one reason or another, even doubts arise that they are delayed for political reasons. We would like to take a few steps in just a few institutions, two or three. We will offer this to you as soon as possible in the respective legislative order, and I will ask you to pay serious attention from now on so that the investigative authorities in our country have a wider operational autonomy to work and not be fully dependent on the prosecution, which, if directed by persons in direct connection with political power, will never go as it should by law, especially if there is a danger of taking responsibility from some former governors in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this, we have exhausted the questioning part and are moving on to expression of attitude. First of all, there's a word. You, Mr. Ananiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u192	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Unusual emotion brings Mr. Rashkov into colleagues from GERB in general, colleagues from DPS today have a special charge. Although the comment made by the DPS that it is spoken not on the subject, in fact, it is on the subject. And of course, Mrs. Tsoneva can correct me if I'm wrong, but the signals that have been filed in Pazardzhik, and not only are they connected precisely not only to the moving sections, we are talking about bought, controlled, organised vote. So when we discuss this topic, it is very important in principle how it happens, because there are several components. The first component relates to the draining of public funds. When there are fake Telks, when someone has been issued a TELK just to be able to vote not only that, they also receive a disability pension, it drains the funds they need to reach the needy. And right now, we have a huge group of people who are suffering from exactly that, because we have this case that needs to be resolved. Of course, keeping a nation sick, poor and dependent is much easier to control. And that was the purpose of the whole transition as a whole. That is why people voted for change, they want to change this model. It will become slow, yes, and Boyko Rashkov will be part of this thing, I'm sure because he gave the application, has the trust of the people, has our trust, and I hope that after straining you so much by DPS and you by GERB, then doing his job well, at least it's my humble opinion. The subject is important and we need to listen to it, people want to see results, they want to feel justice. But this justice will be very difficult if the prosecution as a wall and as a black hole swallows all the signals, disappears and there is no development on them. And this is not only the case that we refer to in Pazardzhik with the sections, but also elsewhere. We are speaking in full.... Hemus, any other new investigations, we hope we will soon have, because this black hole must be closed in order for people to feel that justice. These people protested over 200 days last year because they wanted this change. They want to be Europeans. We've been in the European Union for 15 years. Unfortunately, no one feels European, neither our justice is European, nor our healthcare is European. That is why this topic is complex and very large. She's not just one thing in particular. It covers the whole problem, which is why we currently have a government of change, which I hope will result soon, because there are a lot of things to fix, not just there. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. From GERB? Mr. Bikov, if you'd like to express your attitude. [[Relation of lines between MPs from DPS and MP Nastimir Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u195	Please don't enter into a debate out loud in this room. Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u196	I welcome this conversation because it is part of the overall atmosphere in Parliament this new year, and our attitude towards this hearing is as it was yesterday. It is clear to us that this hearing was put on the agenda so that we would have something to talk about here and that people wouldn't say that we left work today at 10:30 in the morning because we didn't have one. Otherwise incredible new things we've heard, great revelations we've heard that we've never heard of. This is the first time we've acquired such important information. We gave up asking questions because we know the answers. What's the point of asking here exactly what this person is thinking on one subject or another that's sitting on the right?! We have no questions, but we felt a little bit like in the Under-the-Igo. In one chapter, the Ghankovo cafeteria says where Hadji Achilles, Micho Baizadeto and Chorbaj Marco come in and talk about the big policy. And here they came out on one side and talked about great politics, on the other side, all concerned, of course. The fact is, however, that we are doing all this because there are no bills tabled, and there are no bills, because the ruling majority does not know what to do at all. Neither the government knows what to do, nor the parliamentary groups that outline this ruling majority know what to do. And the only thing they can think of is getting Mr. Rashkov here to play a little, to lighten the atmosphere, to create some plots. Otherwise, why are we in politics if we don't make plots? Then it became one and a half, because we couldn't push up to two, but at least one and a half to leave, not to be noticed by the media outside and say: "Hey, how much we work, we even stopped our vacation. " There's, uh, there's a couple of committees gathering up, and they're listening...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u197	Mr. Bikov, the committees are working after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u198	Well, my committee, for example, I don't know when it's gonna get back together.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u199	Don't interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u200	Well, I'm defending parliament, the committees are working.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u201	Well, no, it's not a reproach on parliament. The parliament is here. This room is sitting and the other halls are sitting, the point is that no one fills this Parliament with content and listens to non-content discussions here. If you wish, even if something very important has been said, I didn't hear anything new say. Do we have to make changes to the PPC and to the...? Yeah, you should. When do we watch them? Well, we'll do it. What's it gonna be? It's the kind that can do justice. We want more justice, but we'll analyze it. Give us an analysis. Yesterday's analysis, today's analysis, tomorrow we're back in analysis, by the way, there's blitz control. Tomorrow, both Mr. Rashkov and the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister and the other Deputy Prime Minister will come again and we will analyze here. We'll ask them one thing, they'll say: yes, of course we will. Is that what we're gonna do? How long is this gonna last? Do we have any clarity on this? Next week on Wednesday, who are we listening to here? Did it turn out that we will listen to Mr. Boyko Rashkov in connection with the past elections, but not from November 14th, but from July 11th, because there were big things back then. If you'd like to do a wiretap, let's do it. Let's also hear about the wiretaps in a closed session that there's not much we can say there. Let's get serious. We know these things because we are always in this Parliament. Some of you go in, others go in and out, a third one is about to come out. [[Radio.]] We know all these listening tricks. Give us, tell us what you're going to do, because yesterday you forgot to read your declarations for the new session, to outline the priorities of the ruling majority, and I wish you that we would really start working next week. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u202	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. DPS? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the way today's hearing took place, we can appreciate it as an active event to justify certain iniquities committed during the July and November elections. For your information, Members of Parliament, let me tell you that municipalities, where the structures of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do their job and have paid attention to disadvantaged people in order to be able to fulfil their obligations under the Election Code, and this is also a constitutional right of citizens to be able to vote, have been subject to repression. For my part, I would also like to congratulate the employees of the Ministry of Interior for all legal actions to prevent the vicious phenomenon of bought vote. We at the DPS welcome and support the fight against a bought vote, which takes place in various elections by various authorities with the assistance of the Ministry of Interior based on instructions from their political leaders, as there were signals at the elections in July and November. Buying vote of close to the then power there were signals. We haven't dealt with it, it's none of our business, but close to the authorities. This is what happened during the time of GERB, and before that nothing new under the sun. Mr. Rashkov, in your media statements you are talking about more than 10,000 recorded cases in each of the July and November elections, of which the signals reached the prosecution are less than 100 and 150 respectively, such are your statements in the media. However, our question is also to the prosecution and the prosecution's inactions. Where is the prosecutor's office to check for the legality of the Ministry of Interior's actions, the police for all the other over 20,000 cases that you claim in the media? This is where the prosecution really needs to come in and check for the legality of the police's actions. You know very well that not all cases of militiamanship and arbitrarily are in the registers. We are talking about arbitrary and illegal personal searches, search of homes and offices, arbitrary alarms with standing to sign warning protocols for acts that have not been carried out, which has hit the reputation of those who have suffered before society and democracy and statehood. The attitude towards vulnerable groups in society, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled, has measured for civilization. Militia broke into these people's homes and made them squat and get up, move and whatnot, humiliate them, fuck with their honor and dignity. I say the militia is because your statements, statements and actions are political, as you said two days ago, and serve political goals. But your political guidelines have turned depoliticized police into political militia for illegal actions against political opponents and service personnel of the electoral campaign of the authorities and close to power at the expense of statehood, democracy, humanity, rights and freedoms of citizens. [[Applause from DPS]] This is about the rule of law and respect for the human, civil and political rights of Bulgarian citizens. No signal can serve as a basis for illegal acts of anyone, even less the police, even if they receive illegal political instructions from their minister. Two more sentences, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u205	We have requested from you, under parliamentary control, all documents and, following an analysis of the information received, it will also reach the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, following the exhaustion of the internal legal means provided for in national law. [[(Deputy Minister Boyko Rashkov shows photo, applause from the Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria))]] Your behavior, Mr. Rashkov, is no different than one of your predecessors. And he blamed Bulgarian doctors and issued sentences through the media and from this tribune of the National Assembly, I am talking about the early Tsvetanov, whose shares ended with penal decisions...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u206	One minute already, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u207	...from the Court of Human Rights and sanctions against Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chairman, once again, I would like to congratulate legal action to combat a police vote. We understand from you that in one election there are about 100, the others are about 150, but you claim that your cases are over 20,000. All those over 20,000 cases, Mr. Minister, must be checked in accordance with the order of parliamentary control under the Constitution of the National Assembly, by the Members of the National Assembly, and appropriate legislative and judicial action must be taken. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u208	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. You had two more minutes. Now from the BSP for Bulgaria. "Please come in, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u209	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In order for this hearing not to fall and be drowned on mutual charges, I, thanking the Minister for the information and congratulating the initiators of this hearing, would like, first of all, to return to the facts. And they were obvious to all who were engaged in elections, and did not remain hidden to the media as early as summer, when serious growth was found, rated as a boom of applications for voting with mobile ballot boxes. This became the subject of journalistic investigations, some of which were published in "Free Europe" where a clear estimate was made, including with accounts that there is no way 198 people could, for example, vote for one day in such a section. Moreover, the law allows, apart from TELK, to submit such applications with another medical document which is subject to scrutiny by a mayor, that is, it is not subject to verification, as we ourselves understand that mayors cannot have such competence. These are objective facts that maybe something wrong is going on. The results of these sections also draw attention to a particular political force, which, in turn, has an argument to say that this electorate traditionally voted for it. So what happens, however, what can we draw as a conclusion that seems absolutely indisputable to me? Firstly, these requests have been facilitated; secondly, obviously, this has been done for the purpose of, on the one hand, of avoiding machine voting, whether because it makes it difficult, because it cannot be manipulated; on the other hand, because it controls the vote more easily in this way, it is obvious. It is also noted that after the media activity, the political forces, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior had a decline in these registrations for the next elections. This should also lead us to the idea that there is a specific reason for all of these things. However, this is becoming a political nagging that we have seen often, and in order not to make sense, we must state, apart from concrete actions and possible legal changes on this issue, several principled plays. No electoral violation, even the smallest, even affecting a hundred voices or a single person, should remain unnoticed, that is to say, should be debated, should not remain unexplored, that is to say should be investigated, and should not remain unpunished if there is a problem. Secondly, no Bulgarian citizen should be hampered and prevented from exercising his right to vote, regardless of his political bias, religious affiliation, health status or anything else. This pressure should not be done by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, of course, should not be done by the local authorities, should not be done by political parties who often encapsulate their own electorates and force them to do things that they themselves would not do otherwise. I'm afraid all of this, however, will be seen in the other elections, no matter what we talk about. The Ministry of Interior was active during these elections during this period, for which, Mr. Rashkov, you have our congratulations. I think that worked. But that will not be enough and will never be until there are many people in our country for which 30 or 50 leva. are a large amount; while in our country there are a great many people who depend on the mayor whether they will spend the winter; while in our country there are a great many people whose livelihood and whose life depends on the local mayor, tenant, party leader or any other. And it does not depend on whether he is Bulgarian, Turkish, Armenian, Roma and whether he votes with a mobile urn, in a permanent section, with paper or with a machine, because for this crime too, dear Minister, as for many others, the Ministry of Interior is treating the symptoms and it should be in place, but the deep reasons are different. I therefore think that this hearing made sense that the Ministry of Interior should continue to do its job, and we, as a legislative body, should see what it allows with every right that has been done to make it easier for people to abuse themselves and tighten the texts where it should be tightened without violating citizens' rights. But the big question is that of mass poverty, the one about the constant placing of people in subjugation, and people in subjugation, the most threatened groups are precisely those who are disadvantaged, people with disabilities, people of different ethnic backgrounds, people who are discriminated against in different ways, but these are generally people who have remained in extreme poverty. And that must be our goal to remedy this issue. Then they will be able to freely express their political rights. Everything else will only be the subject of another throwing accusations between one opposition and another government. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u210	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. There's such a people, Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u211	I thank the Minister for the information he's given. The sad thing about this whole thing is that we all know that what he said, we knew it before. Each of us, who in these elections went to Kardzhali or Razgrad or Shumen, knows that there was a jump on applications for mobile polling stations, knows which population was going there, also knows that many people voted in this way, not because they had physical disabilities, but because they called the doctor or were told to call. He wrote that they had hypertension and they demanded a mobile polling section. It is clear that we in this Parliament must tighten this part of the law and refine it, but to pretend to be misunderstood which political parties, in what motives and in how they control these people, I also think it is wrong. As is the fact that the Ministry of Interior did what it could, the fact is that the prosecution stopped most of the signals. There are such people in Kardzhali, for example, issued hundreds of signals, of which only three were admitted to the prosecution. Not to mention that the people who gave the signals were called to the Economic Police to explain why they were sending the signal. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Bikov, but the subject is important and needs to be heard. I know you're chewing this gum for the fact that Parliament is not really discussing laws right now, but you know very well that this is not going to happen within... The committees were formed a few working days ago, if I'm not mistaken. In the last parliament, we had not formed committees for a month. Then I know very well what the committees did and how long they worked. You will have the opportunity to join the committees in which you participate with desire. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There's a lot of work to be done. So let's not hide behind the fact that the committees were actually set up a few working days ago. And this problem is extremely good that it is being discussed in parliament, because in this way it is gaining publicity, something that has been missing so far. In this way, I am sure that in the next election, whenever they are, things will be much more normal in the way the machines normalized the other buying of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u212	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. From "Democratic Bulgaria." Welcome, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for all the information you have provided. Although you and I are suspects in some scary package against two political forces in this room, I am really getting acquainted with this data right now. To be honest, what I've heard as numbers has surpassed my wildest expectations. I will be very detailed in writing with this data. And, Mr. Bikov, I don't know if what is happening in this room is like a debate, like the Gank's Cafe in the Vazo's novel, but it seems to me that the way you treat the topic with complete indifference, ignoring and brutal cynicism, as if it didn't matter at all because it had passed, and on the other hand it became so over-emotional and aggressively [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It is very strange that so emotionally, on the one hand, and so indifferently, on the other hand, GERB and DPS accept such an important issue as the honesty of elections. A while ago, I think you said by mistake that you didn't even recognize the election result. But, basically, it's more important what we do from here on out. "Democratic Bulgaria" is committed to put forward legislative proposals so that these breakthroughs and the way in which these rules of law are abused can be restricted. If thousands of people have now voted across the country, and perhaps this has not had a dramatic impact on the election result, and this can also be argued in certain areas, what will happen in the local elections if this wave continues to create in this way mobile polling stations by the mayors of political forces who are directly interested in the outcome of the local elections? And because in two years' time, we're going to appear at local elections, we must take action, because these tactics can really turn the game into a community when choosing a mayor. So this... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] No, we don't have tactics. We appear with an open face.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u214	Don't get into a personal argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u215	It's a commitment we're making on our part. Thanks again. I'll get to the details. I continue to closely monitor what you do and the way all investigations and pre-trial proceedings develop, because nothing should be swept under the carpet and nothing should be left behind. The Bulgarian Parliament owes the Bulgarian voters such an attitude to conclude each issue here with a clear conclusion, with follow-up actions in the direction of protection of the public interest. Thank you. [[Applause from... Democratic Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I'm a little hesitant, but... What have we done to offend you, Mr. Bikov? Are you personally affected by this question?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u217	Well, they mention me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u218	As someone who's been involved in...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u219	...as a man who was involved in the talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u220	I give you the floor, but you abuse the flexibility of my conduct in this paragraph of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u221	Mr. Chairman, we've saved enough time for Parliament not asking questions, so one minute is not so scary to hear us. First of all, I can't figure out the logic of this argument where one subject is turned on and the other is passive. How exactly is this happening, I don't understand? I can see what's going on between you and Mr. Rashkov. You asked him what to ask, and he asked you what to answer. That's pretty much what I saw. This joke you played here. And it's a bit like Radini excitement, and you, like the little girl who's experiencing it, appear...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u222	No, it really became like a coffee shop. Hold on, Mr. Bikov. Can I see you for a second?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u223	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u224	Mr. Ivanov is not listening to you at all and he is having a conversation there in a louder voice than you, he does not even hear me.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u225	Which Mr. Ivanov? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u226	Yeah, he just found out.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u227	Fine, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u228	A little quiet, please, colleagues. We're almost there. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u229	If you don't understand, we're just not gonna be involved in this shit anymore. As many hearings here to challenge Mr. Rashkov, we won't be dealing with any nonsense. And you're gonna keep doing all that bullshit over there. I see the guy's giving himself away there.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u230	Mr. Bikov, after all... After these assessments, you will be challenging new personal explanations. I think that's enough for today. BORN shall have the floor to express its regard to this hearing. [[(Noise and lines:) Where is Minister Rashkov? Is he gone?]] I think she's stopped participating in the cafeteria where we've turned the last five minutes into parliament. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! First of all, I thank the Minister for the clarification he gave in today's courtroom. I'm sorry. I'm thinking of something else. Obviously, the subject has sparked public interest. We've heard a lot of arguments from both sides of the room. Obviously, the topic is important for the Bulgarian society. Of course, I agree with his view that legislative changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure should be made to give the investigating authorities greater autonomy in order to prevent the possibility of binding the prosecution with political orders. I say this as one of 130 people on the list, tapped by the Special Prosecutor's Office, based on the development of a coup d'état during the big September protests, together with the entire parliamentary group of a party re-enactment. I also say this as a victim of the prosecutor's political lawsuit, registered for the deletion of an ARC party, on which the investigation led by the DANS used the Ministry of Interior's resources to interview sympathizers at the police precincts, for example in Varna. Last but not least, I am solidarity with Minister Rashkov's view of the need for these changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure and as directly involved in the protection of the seven accused by the prosecution of hooliganism and police violence during this same September protest in 2020, which all were justified by the court. Accordingly, the proceedings against them have also been terminated because of, of course, the well done work of the investigating authorities. In this regard, I would like to share with the Minister, if he were here, that obstructing this possibility of binding the prosecution with political orders is also related to the creation of judicial control over prosecutorial acts, because the lack of judicial control over prosecutorial acts in the current version of the PPC is one of the reasons why we sometimes monitor deribacy in the prosecution and the use of the prosecution in some cases............................................................... In this regard, there is a signed coalition agreement which, in point two, in part two of Title "Justice" refers to the creation in the medium term of judicial control over certain prosecutorial acts. I very much hope that the Ministry of Interior will hear my appeal and make legislative changes, as the intention has just been stated by Minister Rashkov for appeal and judicial control of all prosecutorial acts, as we believe that even if the Bulgarian court gives liberal punishments, as it expressed itself, we still believe in the impartiality of the Bulgarian court. We believe that when an opportunity is created for effective control of the court of the acts of the Prosecutor's Office, of course, we can also expect what Minister Rashkov was saying here that, of course, this slowdown of cases will be prevented, this inability of cases to go forward, as he said, for which I call on the Ministry of Interior and him personally to make the relevant legislative changes. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u232	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. That concludes the hearing. Please come in for a procedure before I read the parliamentary control message. What's your procedure, Mr. Chenchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u233	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u234	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since a short time ago, another procedure was put in place for parliament how to work and whether it works well, whether there should be hearings, whether or not the hearings have passed this debate, which was extremely important to me. The national representation must also pay attention to a fact which, if necessary, we must make hearings every day that are extremely important, namely the latest data from today that the proud and dignified Bulgarian people from the last census have decreased to 6 million. $520,000. Souls. This is what is worrying and, if necessary, every day you have to work on this issue, because, Mr President, a 12-year management has done nothing. So you made it happen to reduce the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Your Commission has something to do with this. Come in the manner of conduct. There's still time for 2:00 a.m. If there are other such procedures, they can pass now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We can move on until 3:00 p.m. I appeal to you in the manner of conducting.. We know you from several Parliaments. Of course, we've been together in executive power. I would say that as a person and as a representative of the National Assembly, I have a high opinion of your personality, but when we elect a President of the National Assembly, of course, this also applies to the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, and when they entrust you to hold a meeting of the National Assembly, especially when it comes to hearing the Council of Ministers, we should not forget that the National Assembly is the employer of the Council of Ministers, not vice versa. I remember the times when your parliamentary group, which you represent, including you of this tribune, from the highest tribune, were criticising domestic ministers, and not only in previous governments, that sometimes they say things that did not come on the agenda. You've taken the liberty of making your agenda today. On several occasions, we have made a note to you, but I hope you will indeed be so kind, tolerant and allow the parliamentary groups to still make their views known. Don't be shy, don't be afraid to interrupt the members of the Council of Ministers no matter what they are, because the current prime minister, who broke the biggest law, the highest law in the country of this tribune, said: "Let's introduce a new amplity to being MPs. I beg you, be so kind as to make remarks to both MPs and members of the Council of Ministers who violate order and speak untruths, not to put it rudely in the National Assembly! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-01-06.u238	I'm taking a note, Mr. Ibryamov. This parliament is a little different. And you are the only group to object to the questions that were answered. I assume that for the other six groups, we did stick to the subject in general. I also hope that colleagues who asked questions and the ministers will bear in mind that they still have to stick to the subject. I am making this explanation because, in principle, following a procedure in the manner of conduct, the leader is entitled to two minutes in which to respond to this procedure. However, at no time did the questions or answers get further away from the topic of election, election honesty, election process. Yes, in some moments we went beyond the strict topic of moving sections, but I think we generally stuck to that topic. I also appeal to your group: let such hearings, even if they seem awkward to you, not be a cause for constant calls, clapping, noise, and this and the Rules are still intended not to happen and I was very tolerant of the representatives of your group. By believing that the procedures have been exhausted. Moving on to reading the parliamentary control message: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Kiril Petkov will answer a question from the MP Desislava Trifonova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister of Climate Policy and Minister of Environment and Water Borislav Sandov will answer three questions from the MPs Zornitsa Stratieva; Desislava Atanasova and Mikhail Iliev; and Krum Zarkov. 3. The Minister of Justice Nadezhda Yordanova will answer a question from the MP Krum Zarkov. 4. Minister of Health Asena Serbenova will answer two questions from the National Representative Bajko Klechkov. 5. The Minister of Agriculture Ivan Ivanov will answer a question from the National Representative Snezanka Trayanska. 6. The Minister of Transport and Communications Nikolay Subev will answer four questions from the MPs Atanas Mihnev; Martin Dimitrov; Zornitsa Stratieva; and Krum Zarkov. 7. The Minister of Energy Alexander Nikolov will answer a question from the MPs Atanas Mihnev; Anton Tonev and Radoslav Vassilev. I would like to remind you that tomorrow's first point of control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the so-called blitzcontrol of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers is at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned for today. [[PHONE RINGING]]
