ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please take your seats. Please register! Dear colleagues, will I motivate any of you to register if I say that I will make a proposal under art. 47, para. Five? [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] What you all insist on being included in the program, Mr. Tsonev. [[(Reply from DPS: Yesterday you had to do it.]] Colleagues, we'll make another attempt to register in 10 minutes. Discovered at 9:22 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Dear colleagues, please take your seats, I would like to invite you once again. Please register. There are 131 registered MPs. There's a quorum. I'm opening today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues! [[In the hall are members of GERB-SDS. Claps by "Keep On Changing."]] On the basis of art. 47, para. 5 I propose that the following draft decision should be included as point one for today, namely the Draft Decision on the settlement of the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022. This draft decision was submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs, which was examined by the two committees to which it was assigned, and there were reports received on it. Please, voting mode. Vote 212 MPs: for 182, against none, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] We are revoting, fellow Members, the procedural proposal I have made to include a new item on the agenda. They voted 214 MPs: 186, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. I've got a few messages to read to you. The first of them: The National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the Action Plan for 2022 with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union on 30 June 2022, adopted by Decision No 512 of the Council of Ministers of 2022. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to all Standing Committees. On 27 July 2022, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 10 of 26 July 2022 of the Constitutional Court on Constitutional Case No 21 of 2021. By its Decision the Constitutional Court declared as unconstitutional § 23 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of the Sofia Municipality. A letter was received with entry No 47-239-02-15 of 26 July 2022 from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Child Protection. The letter is addressed and provided to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. By a resolution of the President of the National Assembly, the letter, together with the annexes thereto, is sent to the MPs of their electronic mail. And the last message: the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has, by its own orders, authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of aircraft with crews of the composition of the Royal Air Force of Thailand and the Royal Air Force of Australia. The orders issued are within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the passage with a view to the defence of the country. On issues concerning export control and compliance with international plantation regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria, the country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned after a positive opinion of the competent authorities in these areas. The Ministry of Economy and Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The notifications were received on 27 July 2022 with entry No 47-203-09-78 and 79, respectively, and were made available to the Defence Committee. Honourable Members, we are moving to item one of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RESPONSE THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT No 8 OF 2022 IN CONSTITUTION CASE No 4 OF 2022 Reports have been received from the Energy Committee and the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Who will introduce us to the Energy Commission Report? Mr. Ribarsky, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to settle the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, No 47-254-02-89, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 27 July 2022. At its extraordinary meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Energy Commission discussed Draft Decision on the settlement of the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, No 47-254-02-89, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 27 July 2022. The motives of the draft decision were presented by Mrs. Miteva. By Decision of the Constitutional Court No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, the National Assembly's decision of 9 February 2022 on the election of the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory (promise, SG No. 13 of 2022) has been declared unconstitutional. In order to address the consequences of this decision, the following must be taken into account: 1. By judgment of the Constitutional Court No 3 of 2020 in Constitutional Case No 5 of 2019, the court ruled that the declared unconstitutional decisions of the National Assembly were invalid since their adoption or issuance. 2. In accordance with art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the Constitutional Court by its decision declares a separate law or other act or part thereof unconstitutional, the National Assembly shall settle the legal consequences arising within two months of the entry into force of the decision. 3. On 2 April 2015, in accordance with the Energy Act, the National Assembly as a body for the appointment of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by its decision has elected Mr. Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as President of the Commission. On the basis of the stated and settlement of the effects of the Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 by the Draft Decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, art. 22, para. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act and art. 11, para. 5th sentence second of the Energy Act Mr. Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov to continue his functions as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and after the expiry of his term of office until he takes office of a new Chairman. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Committee on Energy with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, and 8 abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a draft decision to settle the effects of the Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, No 47-254-02-89, submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs on 27 July 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u4	I'm also asking you to read the draft decision, Mr. Ribarsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u5	Project! DECISION to settle the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, art. 22, para. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act and art. 11, para. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union') have held that the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the European HAS DECIDED Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov, elected Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by decision of the National Assembly of 2 April 2015, continues to perform the functions of President of the Commission until the inauguration of a new Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. Mr. Mateev, please inform us of the report of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! "COMMODITY" on Draft Decision on the settlement of the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, No 47-254-02-89, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs on 27 July 2022 At its regular meeting held on 27 July 2022, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed Draft Decision on the settlement of the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, No 47-254-02-89, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs on 27 July 2022. On behalf of the importer The draft resolution was presented by the National Representative Zlatomira Mostrova. The draft decision governs the consequences of the Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, which declared the National Assembly's decision of 9 February 2022 to elect a Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be unconstitutional. Ms. Mostrova clarified that the declared unconstitutional decisions of the National Assembly are invalid since their adoption or issuance and according to art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should settle the legal consequences of the declared unconstitutional act. She pointed out that the Draft Decision proposed that Mr. Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov continue to serve as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and after the expiry of his term of office until he took office of a new Chairman. People's representative Branimir Balachev expressed a positive opinion on the proposed draft decision, adding that the Commission cannot remain without a president. After the discussion, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 8 votes for abstentions and 3 votes supported the draft decision on settlement of the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022, No 47-254-02-89, submitted by Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva and a group of MPs on 27 July 2022, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u8	You don't have to read us the solution project, Mr. Mateev. It's the same content as the one by importer and the one that read Mr. Ribarsky. Thank you. Will there be an importer's opinion, colleagues? Mrs. Miteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! By Decision No 8 of 2022, the Constitutional Court showed that it is a genuine guarantor of constitutional order and the rule of law. The decision is a breach of the rule of law with its elements of legal certainty and predictability and the non-acceptance of acts which are not clear which are not predictable and which lead to retroactive action. The application for this kind of decision was given by the Constitutional Court by Decision No 1 of 2020, which now confirmed the understanding that the National Assembly is no longer the master of its decisions but is called upon to prevent the adoption of unconstitutional acts. The proposed decision today has a single purpose for the National Assembly to fulfil its obligation and to settle the consequences of Constitutional Court Decision No 8. Today, in speeches by MPs, I heard from "There is such a people", GERB and DPS we want to bring Ivan Ivanov back to the position of Chairman of the KEWRC. No, we do not want to bring Ivan Ivanov back to the position of Chairman of the KEWRC because this happens automatically under the Constitutional Court Decision, under the Constitutional Court's practice, under the incompetence of the ruling coalition and because of the lack of coalition culture by one of the coalition partners. According to the Decision, the Chair of the KEWRC is considered not to have been elected that he has been illegally in office and pursuant to Decision No 3 of the Constitutional Court of 2020, this is happening from the date of adoption of the Act of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, there is no way, moreover, that by going to elections, we can leave the KEWRC without a president, because with the change in the Law we have reduced the members from nine to five, the Chambers are two members each, the President is a balancemaker in both places. Leaving the KEWR without a chair, this means that the Chambers meet with two persons, no one to convene them, no one to sign individual acts, including those issued by the President, including the making of payments to the Commission and the failure to adopt one such decision would really put the whole work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission before the establishment of a new parliament and the election of a new President. Yesterday we saw an attempt to amend the Energy Act, proposing that the President be elected from among the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and we do not... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I suggest I move on to a statement so I don't take the floor twice. And we did not support this law to come into plenary because we believe that by choosing one of the members as President, we will again not resolve any matter. Once again, one of the members will remain with two members, which will lead again to absurdity in the adoption of decisions. Unfortunately, this decision also reflects on the President himself at the moment, which was until the entry into force of this decision of the KEWRC. And I regret to say that this young man has suffered the biggest negatives because for him from now on it will be questioned whether all his acts will be attacked in court, so whether all appointments will be declared null and void, for he must return everything he has taken from the KEWRC as salaries, as compensation, as missionary and I think that the KEWRC should turn to the Council of Ministers in order to obtain an opinion on their practice in relation to another act which was declared unconstitutional and another prime minister in resignation went on this path. I therefore call on all of you to support this decision in order to get out of this situation, to go to elections at least calmly, that we have not left energy in chaos. And this decision, in the end, I will say that it is a good sign that professionals should be heard, heard, and that in a rule of law, power should be subject to the law, not the right to obey power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Colleagues, insofar as Mrs. Miteva has passed the opinion of an importer in speech, I will accordingly give the floor to colleagues who want to make lines. Are there any? Nikolai Angov. Here you go, Mr. Angov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Miteva's statement went quite smoothly from the opinion of the importer to the statement, so I will address one part of it, actually both parts. Firstly, the change in the Energy Act, which was introduced, although it was done relatively quickly and although it was under-trained, generally gives a solution in cases where, for some reason, the elected President of the KEWRC cannot carry out his work and has to be replaced by a Commissioner, which can happen always and for any reason. So now, too lightly, this proposal has been rejected, again, it was not perfect, but we must also bear in mind this hypothesis. The other part, which was mostly addressed to May, is a very funny party, which has no political culture, a party that replaces what voters have sent it for, and voters have sent you here for a normal state, for a change of the model that has existed so far, the model of single government and corruption of GERB to be replaced with a normal government. You replaced the voters' vote and didn't defend what the voters sent you for. So you have nothing to tell us about coalition culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Miteva, when you answer to Mr. Angov, please explain to him in your back in law what he has just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u14	Mr. Abrovsky, the line to Mrs. Miteva, please. Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. Mrs. Miteva, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Angov, you clearly do not know why you are in the National Assembly and what the National Assembly means. [[Applause from IHN.]] First of all, the release of the President due to a factual inability to fulfil his obligations has nothing to do with this hypothesis. We don't have that hypothesis here, and he can't go on that basis. He just goes away because he has never been elected and has never been elected because no one listens to our opinion. Mr. Yordanov will soon show our bill, which was submitted and which, after it was submitted, you had forced us to withdraw it. After many debates in plenary, no one listened to what was said. That's why I'm saying we don't listen to each other and we don't hear each other. Secondly, in terms of coalition culture. We are here and I have talked all the time during the election campaign that we are going to make a new legislation, that we are going to make working groups, that we are going to do expert groups, that we are going to listen to what interested parties want, listen to professionals and not work as they have worked so far. Unfortunately, what I've seen is no working group on any important law that's never happened in 20 years, I've seen an amateurship, I've seen an attempt to legislate on a knee. [[Applause from ICN and GERB-SDS]] , I have seen that since the first day.. and since you are challenging me, I will tell you now, from the first day we started with a decision of the National Assembly, once again related to energy, we imposed a moratorium on prices and only because of the will in this House this decision was not attacked in the Constitutional Court and I guarantee you that it would be declared unconstitutional. We started with an unconstitutional act, ended with an unconstitutional act. Did you know, Mr. Angov, that at the Constitutional Court at the moment for six months of government we have twice as many requests to declare unconstitutionality of acts adopted in this period than for the entire 2020 period? And right now, there's a request for API, which is also expected to be partially unconstitutional, the access decision, if we hadn't canceled, would also...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u16	Mrs. Miteva, we're way off topic here.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u17	...to be unconstitutional. The decision on higher education would also be unconstitutional, that is to say, we had two basic acts adopted by this Parliament: the SEW, the demand of the Special Court, unconstitutional in the quota section, again because of you, Mr. Angov, and the second decision for the KEWRC, two important acts and both unconstitutional! And here I want to remind you... [[(The President signals that time has expired. We continue the Change: The Time, the Time!]] I apologize, Mr. Chairman, but because Mr. Angov challenged me, let me remind you that 120 years ago Professor Stefan Kirov, founder of the Constitutional Department of the University, spoke about this legal debauchery, which we are currently observing in the National Assembly and this is indeed a disgrace! [[Applause from ISN, GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u18	Are you here for a personal explanation, Mr. Angov? [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolay Angov.]] Mr. Angov for a personal explanation. [[Reply from MP Ramadan Atalay.]] Mr. Atalay, if you please step off the stand, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Atalay, step off the stage, please. [[Reply from MP Ramadan Atalay.]] Okay, he's entitled to a personal explanation, Mr. Angov. [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Ramadan Atali.]] Okay. Mr. Angov, let's hear from Mr. Atalay, then there's a reasonable... [[(Noise and lines. IHN lines: Why a personal explanation, what did she say?]] He said, he said at the beginning, look at the transcript. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And he turned to him personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u19	Mr. Chairman, let's get some peace in the room. Colleagues, all that has been said before me may be 200% true, but let us, today, shortly before we leave this room, I see that you are constantly calling from the place: To show up here, but already more trained, more experienced, not to continue with the other things you should be acquiring. Mr. Chairman, I will ask the entire House to support the decision proposed by the Energy Commission. I specifically and our proposal, which we asked you to consider yesterday all day, withdrew it from the Chamber, as well as from GERB withdrew their proposal, with only one purpose: if at the beginning, I do not want to say when there was no hearing, when you submitted bills and we explained here that everything you were doing was unconstitutional, you did not hear then. When it came to the KEWRC, you should know that all those proposals that I had made to the end I kept in the Final Regulations...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u20	Is that a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u21	It's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u22	What do you want me to do? Of course I'll make a statement. What do you want? Do you want me to slap you?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u23	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u24	Mr. Atalay, it was technically wrong on the dashboard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u25	Although it's not far from you and that happens to you, you still won't understand a word. Colleagues, I then left you in the Final Provisions to resolve the issue today by the Constitutional Court to be resolved. Eva Miteva withdrew her proposal to the Commission, but I left until the end of this room to be examined and when you all said that you would not support it and I withdrew it, so today we are here, so we are looking at everything that the Constitutional Court has sent us. There's nothing wrong with it, it happens in good families, but it's taken care of afterwards. You continue, and after you have divorced the government, you continue to behave arrogantly, you continue to behave as you cannot and should not behave as a representative of the people, especially when today has to make a decision to bring order to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u26	Is that on the KEWR, what is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u27	Mr. Secretary, don't take the floor, please! And now, colleagues, since I have to go out for personal reasons, I will vote for and I will ask the group to vote for. I will also ask that if you continue the Change, if you stop this change, you be once more men than it would be necessary. When you had to vote on this bill, you didn't do it at least today support this decision. We withdrew our proposals with a clear awareness that both our proposals and GERB's proposals, and Mrs. Iva Miteva's proposals are on the same subject, on the same subject solved. But we have given the opportunity again to that overall coalition that you created then, and today we see that it was not a coalition, it was a separate loser, every political formation to solve its own personal issues. And just as you started with energy, I'll tell you: you will also end with your energy management. But one sentence, Mr. Chairman, to deviate. At least don't let Kiril Petkov get into nuclear power. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u28	Is that on the KEWR?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u29	Since yesterday, he's been pushing the chairman to sign certain things that are no different from those two ships that went and negotiated with America. Or once again: to press our egos, not to look for who was right, who was wrong, to say that the Constitutional Court has made the right decision, which we cannot argue, and the next decision that the National Assembly must take is this decision, which has been taken by the Commission, let each of us bow down our heads, press the green button and lively in elections and hopefully see each other in the next National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Mr. Angov, come in for a personal explanation. [[Heckling]] A personal explanation of Mrs. Miteva's saying in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u31	There was no insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u32	She turned to him personally with...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u33	Mrs. Miteva has turned to me a lot of times, so I think I'm entitled to a personal explanation. I know very well why I'm in this National Assembly, and that's because the voters sent me here. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] Our constituents want decisions made here, not based on corruption interests. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] I'm explaining why I'm here. Mrs. Miteva said I don't know why I'm here. I know very well why I'm here. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u34	Colleagues, please be quiet. Patience!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u35	My constituents want to raise their wages, they want better infrastructure, they want not to be stolen. [[Noise and lines.]] They want higher pensions. They want the decisions not to be made on the basis of which drawer how much money will go, but on the basis of what the utility of these investments will be for society. That's why I'm here, Mrs. Miteva. Why are you doing this is your question, I will not address it, not to give you a reason for personal explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Mr. Cholakov to speak, then Mr. Gutsanov. Are you here for a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u37	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u38	Okay, Mr. Yordanov, I'm recording you too.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u39	Don't miss me!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to call on both Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Angov and all of us to keep a good voice. The case is, how can I say, strictly formal and should not be used for political attacks, even more so if we now start raising tensions in this House, I think it will not be good for the decision that we should adopt. We just have to accept it, and in that sense, I want to say a few words by telling you a story. Many times from this tribune I say that Bulgaria has not started 10 or 12 years ago, it has a history. Parliamentism also has a history. So these cases happened to our ancestors, they solved them one way or another. I'd like to tell you about a similar case from 1997, in which I was a participant by accident. In 1997 the elections won them the SDS with Ivan Kostov with 137 MPs, if I am not mistaken this is the largest majority achieved during the democratic transition. On July 10, 1997, the majority of the SDS voted here in this House...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u41	ODS.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u42	ODS! ODS. [[DB lines.]] I'll say good things. Good things about Ivan Kostov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u43	Mr. Cholakov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u44	I'm absolutely on the subject, Mr. Chairman. So, on July 10, 1997, the National Assembly elected general directors of both BNT and BNR, who should then be elected by law by the National Assembly or so they thought. BSP, then in opposition, reacts sharply, says the choice is illegal and leaves the Chamber. A few days later, the DPS filed a request to the Constitutional Court for the unconstitutional election and on 6 November 1997 the Constitutional Court said that yes, the choice of Stefan Dimitrov and Lilyana Popova as Director-General of BNT and BNR is illegal. The same day Luben Kornezov MP from BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u45	Mr. Cholakov, I'm sorry to interrupt you for the second time. If you don't return to the subject, I'll take your word away. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's not at all on the subject, the subject is a draft decision. It has nothing to do with the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u46	They say that within 3 days after the publication of the Constitutional Court Decision, the old CEOs must return to their posts automatically. Yordan Sokolov then Chairman of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u47	Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u48	Yeah. ...says that this is so that the former CEOs should return immediately. Ekaterina Mihailova, chairman of the parliamentary group of the SDS, spoke here then, from this tribune, that a civilized solution must be found and eventually the Law on Radio and Television must be changed so that the choice can be made again to the same people, only this time to be lawful. Stefan Savov then, remember who Stefan Savov was, said he would not make force majeure changes to the Law so as not to bring about new violations of the Constitution. [[(Replies from]] On 21 November 1997 the decision was published in the Official Journal. On the 26th, colleagues Ivan Tokadzhiev and Vyacheslav Tunev have returned. They just came back and sat on their chairs. I quote these names to you to let you know that these lawyers were of the opinion that the Constitutional Court's decisions came into effect automatically, there is no need for anything more and this happened. And it happened right in front of my eyes, eventually in front of the whole society. Open the transcripts, open the old papers, and you'll see. Now, at the moment, the people's representation accepts that it's nice to have an act. I don't mind, we'll support it, of course. I want to tell you that it is good to support this act so that the situation around the KEWRC can be calmed down. I want to tell you that Ivan Ivanov has been restored anyway on the basis of the Constitutional Court Decision and we just need to formalise and establish this act. That's it, I'm asking you not to be hysterical. I don't know why you're stopping me. I wanted to tell you something enlightening! Let's vote on it, fellow Members, and move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. To speak, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u50	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am glad that the tone in the Chamber has calmed down because there is no need to have such tensions, and it is a matter which concerns every Bulgarian family and the economy of the country. Yesterday, we at BSP offered you a lasting solution and a legislative programme, which included the election of President. Unfortunately, this was rejected by the National Assembly. We believe that this was the right path and this was the right and much more secure approach to the development as a whole of our country's economy and in particular energy. Therefore, today we will not take part in this vote and will not support such a request. Let us observe the view as it was of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Yordanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get a little louder, 'cause it's getting really quiet for me. From this tribune, there are usually blatantly telling lies, so it is nice to tell some truths from time to time. We found ourselves in this ridiculous situation in the National Assembly because of Lena Borislavova. That's the truth. This is the bill that we submitted on 17 January at 5:15 p.m. Inside is § 7 which says that a president should be elected within 14 days. [[shows bill]] The moment we brought it in, the face of Lena Borislavova, who is the spokesperson of the Prime Minister, of the Prime Minister, of the former, intoxicated the office, i.e. the room of Vice-President Iva Miteva, on the phone, I was inside to remove this paragraph. [[GERB-SDS line]] Eva explained that this would fall into the Constitutional Court. She continued to scream on the subject of getting out, and after that we took a lame, coalition decision to support our coalition partner's request with the clear awareness that it was stupid, but we were a coalition. Because, fellow Members, being a coalition with the Continue Changing means agreeing to all their nonsense. And if you say something is wrong, they declare you a partner of GERB, DPS, VMRO, Grandma Yaga, Grandpa Froz, Snow White and who remembers more. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] If you don't agree with them, you're the enemy. And we put up with and agreed for six months, but we had the stupidity to say that they were doing stupid things inside of coalition councils, which is why we became an internal enemy. The face Lena Borislavova I don't know why she passes for a good lawyer! She screwed up twice with two of her demands, two of her demands, because she clearly commands your entire parliamentary group, colleagues, and your former prime minister. [[(Replies from]] Because he agreed to everything she said, including in this case. Twice the Constitutional Court screwed up professionally and twice the Constitutional Court cut our cabbages, as it were, for stupid, incompetent legal decisions. Now I don't know if the law firm she worked for, whether she's ashamed of her or what she worked for...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u53	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u54	But she's definitely a weak lawyer. You can call her for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u55	We're drifting away from the subject, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u56	Call her for a personal explanation, because I'm affecting her. I'm not deviating from the subject, it's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u57	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u58	The entire National Assembly is currently in a ridiculous situation. Just look at the name of the decision we're going to have to accept! Draft decision governing the consequences of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Consequences! We have created these consequences of the "There is such a people" with its stupid coalition consent and Lena Borislavova with her legal incompetence and her ability to rotate the entire parliamentary group and the Council of Ministers on her little finger, figuratively speaking. To come for a personal explanation, to disprove me. [[(Replies from]] And now, if someone brings back Ivan Ivanov this ridiculous phrase, because there wasn't really a chairman of the KEWRC. He does not exist that young man who does not even meet the conditions and you know it very well. We were there too stupid and stubbornly pretending to be ficuses here when they attacked him for not meeting any conditions. If someone brings Ivan Ivanov back, this is Lena Borislavova and I, in his place to Ivan Ivanov, would send flowers and candy for gratitude. Thank you. [[(Applause from IHN and GERB-SDS, shouts: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u59	Mr. Mitev for a line, then Mr. Dobrev. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yordanov, I disagree with you when we were coalition partners for a long time and the decisions we made together must bear responsibility for them together and for whether these decisions were good. I agree with you that you said yes, and "There is such a people" then made the mistake of supporting this decision or not resisting it enough. Mr. Yordanov, this decision was taken January and then your opinion and the opinion of Mrs. Iva Miteva from a professional point of view were taken into account. You know very well that you have participated in these coalition councils so that you can go out today and attack a person from the stands who is not in the hall and cannot defend himself, I do not think that this is a dignified behavior, Mr. Yordanov. On the other hand, I think that when there is a problem and something has happened, everyone who has participated in this decision should take responsibility. And I say again: attacking someone who is not in the room and cannot defend themselves is not decent behavior, and I believe that regardless of the situation that is at the moment and what has happened, we have an opportunity in the little time that remains, to demonstrate masculinity and decent behavior, and I believe that you are capable of doing so. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Mr. Dobrev for the second line, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u62	Mr. Yordanov, I disagree with you about Lena Borislavova. I'm not a lawyer, and I can't judge her qualities as a lawyer, but I have great hope in her as an energist. [[Laughter]] Because she said a month ago, when the gas was 160 BGN, it would become four times cheaper, i.e. 160 BGN. It's going to be 40 leva. In fact, from the day after tomorrow the gas will be 300 leva, it will not be 40, but I still have hope in Mrs. Lena Borislavova that it will do 40. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Guys, is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor. [[(The National Representative Toshko Yordanov comes out on the stands with a T-shirt on which he writes: Claps by GERB-SDS, lines:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u64	It's very warm in the hall. Thank you. Mr. Mitev, first of all, we have our coalition responsibility, we have it, and now we are ashamed with you, that is, we are ashamed, and you are not. I don't see shame in your half here. We made these decisions rather than make them together, but you made them, and we agreed. This was and this is really our fault, it is. And if we stood up for it then, this coalition would fall apart in February, because the nonsense and inadequacy and incompetence from your half, mainly from Lena Borislavova, because she made the decisions, started right then. Some of the laws that are lobbying, Eva Miteva can very closely explain to you which exactly money will be transferred for which we were against. It was against those coalition councils that I've been to, and you haven't been, and you've been shoving them into the future management program, and these are lobbying laws that benefit certain legal entities. As for manhood, I said what I said about Lena, except she's an incompetent lawyer, it doesn't matter if she's a woman or a man. There's a... Did I attack her because she wasn't in the gym? I'm sorry, but she's been making decisions that have implications for the whole country. It and Kiril Petkov is not in the room to attack him. Should I keep quiet about him or Assen Vassilev because they're not in the gym?! [[Reply from "We go on Changing: "He's on vacation. "]] That you pretend to be lower than you choose something there, not to be offended...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u65	Mr. Yordanov, no personal attacks, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u66	And don't make a remark to me because I'm talking like an asshole! Second, Mr. Dobrev, you are extremely naive...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u67	It doesn't matter how you talk about whether it's a doppelganger or a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u68	...at your age. Expecting energy Borislavova to be better than the lawyer Borislavova. You really are a naive person, but it is good to keep the naive, because it is something childish that we should keep in our heart. [[Laughter]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and "There is such a people."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. However, I would like to remind fellow Members that we are in the building of the National Assembly and, Mr. Yordanov, your clothing is not appropriate at the moment at the height of this platform. Mr. Georgiev is listed for speech and then Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm asking you from now on to the stands to allow people who are decently dressed, because one of us can afford to show up here and in Bermudkis. My fellow Members, I am speaking as a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy. At yesterday's Commission meeting, I think that all the colleagues who attended have done everything possible to resolve the crisis in the KEWRC. There was an opportunity to listen to the Secretary General of the KEWRC and the members of the KEWRC. Unfortunately, I cannot explain why colleagues from GERB-SDS and DPS refused and left, and some very bad things were heard at this hearing. Turns out, colleagues, and we all need to know, and you all need to know, because in the next National Assembly, I hope a lot of you will be in this room, we will have a problem with the supply not only with blue fuel, but we will have a problem with the supply and drinking water. Since the hearing yesterday, it turns out that only 14 water companies have adopted five-year business plans, 4 are in a procedure and still remain 33 water companies with unclear fate, and it may be that we will be in a difficult situation. This will be a big problem, Mrs. Atanasova, and for the next National Assembly. And now to the chairman of the KEWRC. The fact is that today is probably the last day, and perhaps it is the last day of the work of this Forty-Seventh National Assembly, and we must draw our conclusions, and the next colleagues who will be in this Chamber must do everything possible to change the Energy Act and determine the category of energy poor and not just others. And something that Mrs. Miteva mentioned does not refer to the current case, and the next National Assembly should consider if there is really a permanent impossibility for the President of the National Assembly for one reason or another to go out of line, to be alive and well, members of the KEWRC should have the opportunity to choose a temporary performer until the holder returns to his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Mrs. Kirova, come in for a statement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I turn first to the "We continue the Change" because yesterday in the Energy Commission did not support the Decision which is the subject of a vote on this point... they abstained and showed that they do not accept it. I am going outside the following publications and media appearances, which claim that Ivan Ivanov's recovery is at the request of certain parliamentary groups, because this, first of all, is not true, it is by virtue of the constitutional decision, but I hope they realise the importance of what needs to happen today. I call on you to support the Decision because it will give stability to the Water and Energy Regulatory Commission and will enable it to function. With the changes adopted in the Energy Act, when we adopted the procedural rules for the election of the President of the Commission, we reduced the composition from nine to five people. Then many arguments were used for why this composition should not be reduced, but none of you would listen. The conversations were turned back into some humorous scene. We listened to all sorts of calls from the Chamber, but the arguments were not heard. Today I hope at least at the end of this political mandate, at the end of the life of today's parliament that at least this is what you have learned that it is good to listen to what those who have more experience speak to you from time to time. Questioning and questioning always the well-meaning of the opposition and the MPs is in general profoundly wrong, because every single MP in this House represents a certain group of voters. And believe me, each of us wants to be able to make the right decisions not only for his constituents, but also for the Bulgarian state. I am convinced that you want to be able to make such decisions, too, that you have proved that you cannot make them. For this reason, I hope that today you will support the draft decision because... Why is it really important to have such a solution? You can practically do without him. Under this constitutional decision Ivan Ivanov is currently President of the KEWRC, he has not resigned, it has not been voted by the National Assembly, and the election of a new President is unconstitutional, meaning it has not taken place. However, there needs to be a decision of the National Assembly for the following reason, colleagues, in all appearances that different representatives of different political formations have, the ease with which labels are inserted from both this tribune and the political space, in the media, in all appearances that different representatives of different political formations have is frightening. Mr. Ivan Ivanov is threatened to be declared a mobster tomorrow, a self-evident, usurper of the KEWRC presidency and I do not think we should do this to a proven professional. In this sense, we are making a decision which may not be legally necessary, but which gives the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission the tranquility to be able to perform its functions until the election of a new President. And because I attended the Energy Committee yesterday, and to leave when the hearing of the members of the KEWRC began because, honourable Members, you do realize that even in the current composition of the Commission there is another member who is elected in violation of the exact same rules and legal norms as the President of the KEWRC?! It was good that this hearing had taken place before then, it was good to think of both listening and talking to Commissioners, not when there was a fire and when the situation needed an urgent solution. Unfortunately, we didn't talk, we didn't listen, no, we didn't make working groups, there was no new model of legislation. We observed how deadlines were shortened, how they were rushed, how laws were prepared by certain law firms or extremely literate lawyers outside the parliament and never heard the opinions and arguments of the other colleagues in the Chamber. I am convinced that there are enough literate lawyers here, and in this regard, I believe that the mistake is the entire National Assembly and, above all, the largest parliamentary group, which had the claim to be the ruler of the rings. And since this morning I heard from Mr. Bojankov, who urged the President of our Republic to return to the bright side................................. that he has passed into the dark forces, and I can complete the set of fairy heroes.............................. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................]] I am convinced, yes, but I am very worried that he will perform everything formally that his Constitution requires, but I am very worried about this, colleagues from the BSP, that we will do our job because your representatives in the Commission abstained yesterday and did not support this decision. And the legal absurdity that was offered to us by another parliamentary party, which is in your coalition and has the claim to continue the government, was to make a quick amendment to the Energy Act to enable the other four members to elect one another president. You obviously do not realize at all what is done by haste, what is done when you do not think enough or when the desire is one to hold back power at all costs. I wish everyone the right decisions in today, perhaps the last one we have left for this day! Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Thank you, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Honest Mitev for a line. Vladimir Tabutov, and Ivo Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Kirova, coming to the National Assembly, we did not believe you. We thought that your every proposal, with everything you say, is a lie and every suggestion you make, is an attempt to sabotage the government to show how incompetent or how incompetent our decisions are. After all, the experience we have seen in the National Assembly has proved to be this - all your suggestions, Mrs Kirova, to which I have witnessed were: either a watermelon crust that you are subjecting us to slip; or an attempt to sabotage the government and then to say that it does not work; or an attempt to put stress into the government; or an attempt to bring down the government. In fact, the need to bring down Ivan Ivanov and make a procedure to bring down a new composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission was because you wanted to raise the current to end-users, Mrs Kirova, by 13%, using the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory as a political instrument to do so in order to bring down the government. And when the new composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission came, it raised the current by 3%. I will give you one more example: when Mr. Dobrev spoke from this tribune how 25 pennies of fuel was the dumbest measure because, you see, the consumption of the Bulgarian market would spend the 150 million allocated for this measure, within two weeks and people would go to the sea and charge 25 cents, and they would return and they would have to charge at the higher value because they would not reach the money, it was a great lie, Mrs. Kirova. It's a huge lie! You even voted against the measure of 25 cents, and a few days ago the information came out that for the first 10 days 10 million of 150 million were used or the measure of 25 cents for the fuel would reach the end of the year. Mrs. Kirova, it is very nice to talk from here how you are very wise, what politicians you are, what statesmen you are. Well, come to the gym, Mrs. Kirova. You two haven't been in the gym for two weeks, and what are you showing? The government has fallen. It is clear that there is no majority, it is clear that there is no stable majority at the moment. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] What do you show when you don't enter the room and here demonstratively, after we provide a quorum, do you? What are you showing? You show your true face to Boyko Borisov. That's what you're showing! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Ivo Atanasov for the second line and Mr. Ahmedov for the third to alternate the groups. [[Heckling]] Mr. Tabutov, to alternate the groups. Mr. Atanasov, do you still want the second line? Here you go. [[Heckling]] Mr. Tabutov, for speaking, if you like, I can give you the floor afterwards. The lines have been busy for a long time, colleagues. I can give you the floor. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not respect Mrs Kirova's request, as well as other colleagues, I will not vote for this draft decision, and I will explain to you why.... because I do not want to participate in this depraved film called the legislative process. [[Heckling]] I have not voted, and in the election of the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, I will not vote now. Ivan Ivanov has been restored by virtue of the constitutional decision and I have no intention of voting so that I can make him not catch cold, be calm, give him confidence. This man has enough experience and has been restored by virtue of the constitutional decision. And for some people who participated for six months in a lecherous film called the legislative process, this is their responsibility. They liked the stands they took in this debauchery film, they liked it while they had financial interests to participate in this debauchery movie, and now they say, "We're in white and we shouldn't have done it. "I didn't do it and I don't intend to do it, so I won't respond to your request to support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Ahmedov for line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Kirova, do you confirm today that we once again witnessed the weakness of this government in this debate at this point? On Tuesday, we at the DPS proposed that this item be viewed on Wednesday as the first item in Article 1. 47 and by finding a solution to this government or, above all, to this problem, but we have not been heard. We have once again witnessed, especially this past week, how freedom disappears, how dignity, honor, democracy, statehood disappears, and especially the state. The violation of the Constitution and the laws has become the emblem of the governance of.. We continue the Change..... or the failure of Prokopiev. Once again we have witnessed the bearers of morality and truth, and in the last six months you have turned the lie into a norm, the oath of patriotism, and the violation of the Constitution into heroism. I urge you to stop lying! I urge you to stop with the restoration of communism so Bulgaria can have it! We of the DPS will support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I tried to write down everything Mr. Mitev addressed in connection with my speech. I'll start with that, Mr. Mitev. You didn't believe us. You still don't believe us. This, of course, is a matter of your choice. When you talk about laws and legislation tabled, you must bear in mind that there are no imbeciles in this House. Each submitted proposal by the opposition has been delayed, detained, not submitted to the Commission in order to submit you, with the Copi-Pass, this is clearly well learned in the respective offices that you have visited, like with very few amendments. We have supported these decisions, and we have repeatedly called on you to recognise the proposals we make but to make these decisions. In fact, these are the only solutions that have generated some sense and gathered consensus in this House. Everything else that you have tabled as your legislative initiative has created not only violent scandals, but will create huge problems for the Bulgarian society in the future. So, for the 25 pennies measure. Don't try to measure the effect of this temporary measure again. The effect of the temporary measure will be how much citizens have felt and how many Bulgarian citizens have benefited from the needy Bulgarian citizens because the measures you have proposed are not targeted and the effect of them will create an opportunity for abuse, I guarantee you. For these abuses that will happen in respect of the 25 pennies, we still have to talk about it, because today there are gas stations that have a huge list of personal cars and are giving away a discount everywhere, and they are taking it in a certain form from the state, and yet we will have to talk about it. For everything that is not thoughtful, the Bulgarian citizens will pay. And these are your reasonable suggestions. As far as the expression you used to download Ivan Ivanov is concerned, it is a profound ignorance of the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. You took down Ivan Ivanov because he announced within the legal deadline what the price of electricity will be. And you say that seven months after you are in this Parliament, from this tribune, without embarrassing or embarrassing? Well, you obviously didn't learn how the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission works. I don't need to teach you right now in one of the last days of parliament and to tell you the truth, and I've learned here. You don't have to find hot water and America. And one more thing that's extremely important. The settlement of the legal consequences of the Act repealed by the Constitutional Court does not really need a decision of the National Assembly, but I would ask you, colleagues, to understand the way in which we continue as National Assembly to solve these problems. I will support the Decision and again address everyone: support this decision so that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission can start working normally! Otherwise, we will allow for a legislative initiative such as the one they made from Yes, Bulgaria and the Commission to broadcast from the other four people, one for the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u81	Time, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u82	And then, Mr. Atanasov, I hope you won't support him either, because this is even more legal absurd. As far as fornication is concerned with legislative activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u83	Time, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u84	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Your internal party attitude I would not like to comment on, and I do not believe that they are specifically the subject of this discussion or at least should not be. We are currently talking about the fact that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should work for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens and give them security. All the problems, starting from the problems with the blue fuel to the problems with the unaccepted plans for the water companies, happened during this catastrophic, most quickly ended in the history of Bulgarian democracy, governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u86	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u87	For what, Mr. Dobrev? [[Heckling]] No, please, Mr. Dobrev, I'll give you the floor. For a personal explanation, you have no reason. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, please, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u88	I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u89	Mr. Tabutov, would you like to speak? Mr. Dobrev, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u90	No, I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u91	For a statement, I can give you the floor. For a statement, Mr. Ivanov? Okay, guys, are there any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov. I'm also recording Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Constitutional Court's decision should not surprise us. This is another proof of the miscarriage that created this National Assembly. A blunder or a series of blunders which, I would say, become a system, a system of this National Assembly. We have somehow become accustomed to the Constitutional Court's decisions declaring the legislative initiatives of this National Assembly, which is the highest authority, note that the highest authority in the country, to declare themselves unconstitutional and almost accept them as a norm and as something natural. I would say that this is one of the biggest sound slaps and perhaps the ugliest stain on the decisions made by the National Assembly. This means that this National Assembly is the forty-seventh National Assembly with the greatest marriage in terms of its legislative activity. I can't even give an example when we're creating a law to be patched on a patch when you're adjusting a law in favor of something. This marriage in this legislative initiative that we show proves the right that this Parliament is a political precedent in the latest history of parliamentaryism. And the reasons for this precedent, ladies and gentlemen of the House, are that a replacement has been presented as a change. Secondly, we need to learn a dialogue that is extremely important to the MPs, regardless of who is in government and who is in opposition, especially applies to those who govern and are in the country's governance. To dialogue not because we need to like each other, but at least to hear what we present as arguments, the political opponent, the government and the opposition respectively. This means that the rulers themselves should not only hear their own voice.. this inner voice that dictates their ego and this must be an earring, especially for one government and for rulers who actually hold the fate of the people and of the state in their own hands with the decisions they make from the highest tribune, of course, and the decisions that arise from the government itself. But there is an explanation, ladies and gentlemen, when unprincipled coalitions are being created, which we have witnessed, and it's absolutely incompatible, to all of us, I would even say, intellectually incompatible, by opening a large clamp here, I don't claim on the intellectual abilities of either of us, I'm talking about the common profile of the base on which this quadruple coalition was created. I also hope to wish, of course, that in the next National Assembly, the MPs who will be elected to the people will be at the height of parliamentaryism itself, which requires the National Assembly. To have MPs who will not make emotional decisions because it is very important, of course, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, and not, as my colleague put it, to hear about various scratches. Hate is not a major argument for protecting your own thesis when you justify what you want to protect and, of course, lying is not a verbal argument and a tool to protect inefficient solutions. And this can be achieved, I will repeat again, through dialogue, a sense of togetherness, of course, and a national ideal that should pursue the National Assembly. This decision of the Constitutional Court is proof of the ineffelability of the already non-existent quadruple coalition. I hope once this House will show its height and support this decision and indeed the KEWRC will work in the most worthy way for the benefit of society and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. To speak, Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think the purpose of my speech is, however, to tell you that Constitutional Case No. 8 of 2022 contains two main posts, points out two major violations, violations of two main constitutional principles. One is the rule of law, according to which, when the National Assembly adopts the acts, they must comply with the basic law, which is to say the Constitution. And the second principle that has been violated is the principle of political pluralism, namely that parliamentary groups can have one predictability when making their political volitions and exercising their powers under the Constitution. However, even if I tell you these things, I think it would be pointless. First of all, because especially in the procedure for the election of the President of the KEWRC and for the adoption of rules for this you demonstrate the majority responsible then, one how to say, arrogance and ignorance of legislative activity. Next, it is pointless to say it, as this Parliament ends tomorrow, life and health, and even if we discuss all these things here, there will be no point, there will be no practical value. But instead, I want to tell you something else. I met the submitted and subsequently withdrawn on January 17th bill of colleagues from..There is such a people......................................... that there is a new bill from § 18th................................ Only, honourable Members, and I would like to remind you of a bill and to show it to you from December 22nd, this is a draft of the MPs of the parliamentary group of the party ARCHIVE for amendments to the Energy Act, concerning precisely the mandate of the members of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and for the creation of an opportunity in art. 12b, namely, their authority to terminate by a decision of the National Assembly. It is because of the arrogance of the majority in the parliament of the recently ruling coalition that this bill in violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly has not yet reached the plenary for seven months, although in the Rules of Procedure Art. 72, para. 3 says that this should happen within one month, unfortunately, so this bill, which could resolve the problem with any member of the KEWRC, including its chairman, was never considered in the plenary precisely because of what I call the arrogance, the legislative arrogance of the majority in this National Assembly. Unfortunately, what is required in order to get into the subject already, what we are required to do today is to do so that the previous president of the KEWRC is once again performing this activity, precisely because the choice of the current president of the KEWRC from 9 February, if memory does not confuse me, is unconstitutional. I would just like to remind you that at that time, we from the plenary stand expressed our considerations that this choice was unlawful and we voted against its choice. So I cannot agree with the speeches of the previous speakers, such as colleague Kirova, who I deeply respect for the guilt of the entire National Assembly. No, it's not the whole National Assembly's fault for choosing Mr. Todorov as chairman of the KEWRC, because he then voted against. However, we will now vote abstention, not because we have some legal position on whether this should be the procedure to be done, namely the previous President to perform these functions, until, perhaps, in the next National Assembly, a new one is elected. Our observations are slightly different and they affect Bulgarian society. For several days in the media it has been said that the Change is continuing to convince us and, in fact, the Democratic Bulgaria is seeking a new increase in gas by 54%, after in July there has been an increase in gas by 32%, although we have been particularly worried that what will happen and hopefully I am not a bad prophet, but what will happen when we choose, in fact, not when we choose, when we decide that the previous President of the KEWRC will continue to carry out our work, we fear that it is very likely that this request for more than 50% appreciation of the gas will be respected, which does not allow us to support such a decision and we will abstain, because it is precisely this Forty-Seven People's Assembly that we have never been able to adopt a law that allows the mandate of this Commission to allow for more than 50% appreciation of the gas to be respected, which we do not allow us to support such a decision and we will refrain, because it is precisely this 40th-th National Assembly to adopt a law, by which allows us to allow for the mandate of this committee to make it to be respected, which we will be respected. When we choose these people for a five-year term, there should be no situations like today in which we wonder what to do, do we have a useful move and what to make this useful move. If you haven't seen the website of the National Assembly recently, just to tell you that yesterday, the 27th, a legislative proposal has been submitted by representatives from There's no need, fellow Members, to try to guess who would be the right path. We just need to be able to bear responsibility and not look at each other's phones quite often when we choose some people at regulatory positions for a five-year period, in cases where a 50% increase in the price of gas is required, after the previous month has been admitted with a 32% increase in gas, we may at least be able to terminate the mandate of these members of this committee and for two or three months to stop this unfavorable possibility of a new yoke on the Bulgarian citizens despite the assurances of representatives of the ruling majority that this will not happen. On the contrary, this is happening here and now and this will happen, unfortunately, when this decision of the National Assembly is taken today. Again, I hope I'm not a bad prophet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to Mr. Petrov? Here you are, Mrs. Miteva. [[Replying away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u96	Yes, Mrs. Kirova, you're a little out of line...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u97	Not a little...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u98	...and you're at the border because you have no right to stand there after you speak, but I've decided to keep my mouth shut, since I see there's no one else.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u99	I noticed it, I realized there was no one else, that's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u100	There's no obstacle, there's no obstacle to the last few days, and things like that happen. Mr. Petrov, I will make a reply, as you refer to your bill, let us not forget that the KEWRC is an independent regulatory authority and there is no way that the National Assembly, which elects it, will terminate the mandate of the entire regulatory authority. We have a suspension of individual authority. You are proposing the termination of the powers of the entire KEWRC, and it is on subjective grounds. The reasons you normally know, the requirements of European legislation, as we have them here, are the requirements to be clear, to be objective, to not have any subjectivism in them, so there is no way for this proposal to be terminated here. And since you also refer to Mr. Ivan Ivanov, I very much ask you not to speculate on this recovery because he is really recovering under the constitutional decision. The National Assembly, according to art. 90, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Court Act art. 22 has an obligation to settle the consequences. Yes, this decision will be a precedent. Yes, from now on this will be a practice of the National Assembly, but let us not turn Mr. Ivan Ivanov into the person who will bear all the responsibility from now on. Mr. Ivanov, unfortunately, is in such a hypothesis that he has expired a term since 2020. Mr. Ivanov may ask now, after adopting this decision, automatically from the Constitutional Court's decision to resign, and this cannot be done because he is not in this hypothesis of early termination of powers, but can simply go on leave. Therefore, let it not be gathered upon and re-created by such phrases as the mafia, as a person who will do some dishonest and dishonest things, for this man has proved to be an honest and responsible politician and expert over the years. Let's keep his name in mind for this whole situation. Yes, he has no desire to return to the KEWRC, but unfortunately, so far we have brought him to the National Assembly and he must fulfil this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Sincere Mitev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Petrov, I disagree with you and now I will explain why. It's just that you've done what you've been doing every time you said the following: "The decision taken in January is wrong. The proposal that the National Assembly is now making to correct the Constitutional Court decision and to bring Bulgaria into a state where decisions can be made by the KEWRC is also wrong. You did not support the first decision, you will not support it now, and on top of that you have no other working proposal, Mr. Petrov. That's what you do for seven months, you go out, you blame bad decisions, you say new proposals are wrong and you offer nothing. Is this your birthright?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you go, mate, for the third, final line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Petrov, after Mrs. Miteva's line, I want to tell you that something that bothers us with you is, as Mrs. Guncheva said, that your leader is taking you two thirds and you have no opportunity to afford experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u105	This has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u106	No, there is. You cannot afford experts to consult you, which leads to your desire to remove the KEWRC at all. So please... Thank you. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. It's time for the doppelganger. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. Let's save the two thirds, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u108	I'll try not to break the rules. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in line with the lines. Colleague Miteva, I'm just sorry that this debate is unfolding now, not in one look at our bill. Because if you had entered the Chamber, we could have discussed these questions............................................................................ This, of course, is work talk and we didn't mind in view of the spirit of the law, as I think you have understood perfectly what the spirit of the law is, although I cannot agree that if we accept it, it would violate European law. I think you know very well that many of the acts, which unfortunately were adopted in the Forty-Seventh National Assembly, are slightly contrary to European legislation. With regard to the second point, which you, colleague Miteva, have touched on, I would like to say that I have not even mentioned the name of the previous president of the KEWRC. We will not support this decision, not because we believe that it will enter into some behind-the-scenes agreements, which I also did not say, I would like to point out, but simply because we have reasonable concerns that this yet another demand to increase the price of gas of 52% will be respected. That's our concern. If anyone can explain to the Bulgarian citizens how it will be approved by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission this increase, again, new, of these 54% of the gas price, let them come out and explain it to us, because so far from the ruling coalition we have heard only that the gas price is falling and will be much cheaper even than the previous deliveries by the Gsprom. That's the only reason we're going to vote abstention. Next, regarding the second replicator. Colleague Mitev, we do not need to support or not today's decision. By the will of the Constitutional Court, the previous President should take up his post because that is what the law says. But unfortunately, we continue to introduce this practice in the forty-seventh National Assembly to impose any subsequent petition acts and decisions of the National Assembly to transfer responsibility or to serve as an excuse for certain actions. I will just remind you of some 600 million voted for travel repairs, which the explicitly ruling coalition asked to enter the National Assembly as a sanction, a positive, affirmative sanction with a decision of the National Assembly, which was absolutely unnecessary, and now, in any case, it is required that the National Assembly again adopt such a decision, which I do not even need. And last but not least, to the third replicator. Dear colleague, I do not know if we need experts, but please do not come with sneakers to the plenary. This is disrespect for the parliamentary institution. And last but not least, Mr. President, I forgot to say: colleague Yordanov, in a really positive sense I say it, it makes a very pleasant impression on me as a lawyer and as a vaguely understanding English language the inscription on your T-shirt. You saved many Bulgarian parents from hundreds of thousands of extracurricular expenses for training abroad. Thank you for that. I respect your choice. [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Dilov, for a statement, Temenuzhka Petkova was recorded, and then I'm recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I believe that the Constitutional Court's decision relating to the legal election of the President of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory should be very carefully analysed by the majority governing in this Parliament, and in particular by our colleagues from If they carefully analyze the motives of the Constitutional Court and see exactly what they have broken, it will become clear to them why they ruled in an accident only six months. The Constitutional Court has made it very clear what you have broken, honourable Members of the ruling majority, and in particular from Well, you violated the rule of law, you violated political pluralism and equality. Unfortunately, colleagues, these violations are not one-off. Just sit down and read this decision very thoroughly by the Constitutional Court and you will see that all the time of your government you have rudely neglected the laws, the Constitution. You have behaved arrogantly, honourable colleagues, disrespected your political opponents, disrespected their opinion, did not want to listen to what we have here from this stand told you. The same thing that we spoke to you from this tribune related to the election of the chairman of the KEWRC, you repeated it to the Constitutional Court, but you then smiled at us and thought that above you the sky! You've been acting all this time extremely brazen, very sorry, and you thought it all started and ended with you. You put yourself on the label that you are fighting corruption, and only you are fighting corruption, and you have the right to talk about it. And all your other political opponents or anyone else, God forbid, from your coalition partners who disagree with your opinion, from this tribune, from the media you declared him an enemy, a corrupt, a mobster and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u111	Where's the map?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u112	All this, honourable Members, at one point turned against you. Because all this time you've been working on the principle of manipulation, on the principle of distorting the facts. Here are the consequences. These are the consequences of decisions that have been invoked which lead to chaos throughout the country; illegal decisions that lead to the collapse of entire systems. Such a system as energy directly related to the national security of the country. And it is not because of anything else, but because of your arrogance, your unwillingness to read the laws, to obey them and to listen to the opinions of your political opponents. We are absolutely benevolent when we tell you all these things. Unlike you, we work for Bulgarian citizens and we are interested in their fate. We do not care about intermediaries, we do not care about lobbying interests and law firms.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u113	Did you just think of that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u114	So, honourable Members, managing the state is primarily a responsibility. I'm sorry to say that you are young people, most of you Harvard alumni, but you failed to pass this test of responsibility. Absolutely irresponsible behavior all the time! It is not responsible for the Prime Minister to declare it a state secret from where the gas supply to Bulgaria will be. It is not responsible to fail the public supplier of natural gas, to bring it into technical bankruptcy, and now to slap your hands and say: "From now on to deal with the caretaker government or whoever finds it well. So, honourable Members, read carefully the Constitutional Court decision. And if you want to be permanent in politics, learn it by heart, don't repeat those mistakes and don't think it all starts and ends with you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Are there any lines, colleagues? Mr. Angov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u116	Dear Mrs. Petkova, GERB behaved insolently and arrogantly for 12 years while managing in favor of the drawers. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: "Come on, sit down, sit down! "]] They rudely ignored incomes and people only for their own drawers. And against us are not the citizens, against us is the corruption and the missionaries of Gazprom. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Lyuben Dilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u117	Thank you, Mr. Angov. Mr. Mitev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Petkova, how do you live with this contradiction to talk about responsible behavior and not to register in the hall in order to have a quorum in order to adopt the laws that are important to all Bulgarian citizens? [[Applause by "We are continuing the Change."]] Can you explain to the Bulgarian citizens why for two weeks you refuse to sign in to register as a member of parliament whose job is to adopt laws for the benefit of society? You, personally, Mrs. Petkova, refuse to enter the register and to secure point 1. You are talking about arrogance, but, Mrs. Petkova, look around you, Boyko Borisov is the example of arrogance. In the English Dictionary of the Bulgarian language there is a new definition of arrogance, and it is the behavior of GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u119	Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u120	Didn't you listen to your records? [[GERB-SDS lines]] Didn't you watch Mr. Baltov hit the guy who was filming him jumping the fence at the protests?! Isn't that impertinent behavior and arrogance, Mrs. Petkova? What kind of eyes do you come out here and accuse us of continuing the Change in arrogance and insolence? Yeah, maybe the KEWRC decision wasn't the best solution, and that's why there's this debate, but let's talk about insolence and arrogance, and you saying it, I just don't know how you have the power to go out on the stand and say that. Have a nice day. [[Applause from.. We continue the Change.............................................. Laughter and lines by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line please, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u122	Mrs. Petkova, I ask you very much, when you answer the lines now, to answer this one as well. And remind Mr. Iskren Mitev, who loves images, to remind him of another image. I thought you said here you were fighting against Voldemort. The other day he said he was angry. Remind him of what Master Yoda used to say about fear giving birth to anger, anger giving birth to hate, and hatred is the first step towards the dark side. Remind this young man that if he feels anger, he's already in the dark side and he's not Luke Skywalker, he's threatening to turn into Darth Vader. Explain it to him, please. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. I believe you could have said that in a private conversation to Mr. Mitev, and you didn't have to do it after the backdrop, Mrs. Kirova. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the colleagues who replicated me. First of all, regarding Mr. Angov's line. Mr. Angov, as I recall, you were, I think, in Mrs. Bachvarova's office, in the government of Prime Minister Borisov. You should be aware that arrogance and such behavior never existed. If there was, then you were part of that behavior and you just kept changing, right? [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] As for young colleague Mitev. Colleague Mitev, first of all, you should know that I am not ashamed for a moment and I am not worried about going out on this stand and talking, because we from the Political Party GERB all the time that we have ruled, we have ruled not by coup, we have ruled after regular elections. The Bulgarian people have given us a mandate to govern and believe me, we have always worked only in the interests of the people. When you work in the interests of people, you have a clear conscience, we don't worry. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] We don't have a government that fell with a vote of no confidence. As I recall, your government is the first in the history of the Bulgarian Parliament, of the Bulgarian government, which falls after a vote of mistrust. So learn your lessons, we have no reason to worry and be ashamed of our rule. The results are there, we've worked for the people. If there is something that has been done, it was done during this management of GERB's offices with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. [[Noise and lines from.. We continue the Change.]] As much as you don't like it, the facts are what they are, dear young colleagues from Harvard. As for light and anger. Dear Members of the Committee We are continuing the Change, I am addressing you because you are extremely ambitious, extremely motivated to manage, you want to manage, you don't get it, but you still want it. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] For this reason, I am telling you, as a much older colleague than you, and with more experience, with anger and hatred a state is not governed. You must learn to be responsible, to be well-meaning, because people feel when someone is angry and works with hatred. Believe me, the results are never good if you rule with hatred and with lies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. For the procedure Mrs. Kirova. Then Mr. Angov. Let's hear Mrs. Kirova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I appeal to you...........I very much ask that we do not go out so wide outside the debate. Remind those who have been talking here since "We continue the Change" that the quorum is the responsibility of the rulers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u127	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u128	With no important decision for the public, the GERB-SDS group was absent from the House and refused to participate in the debates and to make its proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u129	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u130	However, in the morning, especially with the situation created, when the de facto majority clearly does not exist, it is your job. I know that power is an opiate and it is extremely important for some to keep it forever. Turns out it's impossible. We're gonna go to election number two.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u131	Mrs. Kirova, you're already out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u133	Thank you. Mr. Angov, just a moment. Since the procedure was in the way of keeping me in the Rules, Mrs. Kirova, there is no requirement and there is no division of who should be at their place of work at 9:00 a.m. and to register. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u134	Ah! Ah! Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u135	Mr. Angov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u136	Mrs. Petkova, yes, I have been an advisor to Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, who is an extremely honest and honest person.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u137	What did you advise her to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u138	And there I was responsible for educational policies that were fully targeted in favour of the economy, and I had absolute freedom to implement them as an expert. What's more interesting is what did I see? These were my colleagues who were working on e-government and administrative reform, who took some bold steps forward, and they introduced an impact assessment in the legislation proposed by the Council of Ministers, and more n in number of other things up to the point where the rest of GERB did not actually understand that there is money to be spent in e-government. And then Mr. Tomislav Donchev said: I am already in charge of electronic control and I will distribute the money and this portfolio was transferred from Mrs. Bachvarova to Mr. Donchev. [[shouts: "Eee!" by "We are continuing the Change" and laughter by GERB-SDS]] And one more thing, because we talked about how governments were overthrown. Yes, a no-confidence vote because a party replaced, as I said today, the vote of its voters, but your governments have been brought down with stones and protests. And last but not least, Mr. Chairman, a very brief procedure, there is no point in separating it, please make a remark to the young lady of a group not to call me a boy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u139	Thank you, Mr. Angov. I missed that. You saw that we switched, and now I don't know, when I wasn't a witness, I can't make an immediate remark. I'll wait for him to call you that one more time and then. For a statement? It's the way it's supposed to be. Come in the manner of conduct and then we only have Lyuben Dilov recorded more. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, yes, you have just replaced yourself with the other chairman. Please do not let any more of this tribune be humiliated as MPs. What is spoken of by this tribune in the form of lines, of dummies, especially of dummies, which refer to government perhaps 30 years ago to go back, in an insulting way to the present National Assembly, are absolutely unseemly. I hope now that you, as President of the National Assembly, will no longer allow this type of speech from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u141	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Lyuben Dilov has the floor. Guys, are there any other speeches? Excuse me? Okay, there's another one. I'm asking to know to push the button, but not yet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to the debate and I think it is a sign of something that has happened in the last six months in Bulgaria. From everything that has been said so far, it seems to me that until recently the rulers will not support this bill, and it will not support it, not because they have any essences of comments on it, but just because we are already in a pre-election situation and we need to make some propaganda. However, you know, I think the big problem that led to the failure of this quadruple coalition was the fact that the main political force in it,.. We continue the Change, never understood that the elections had ended. You have continued to behave as if you were in an election situation for six months, you have not offered policies, and you have offered to speak against your previous political opponent, and you have, accordingly, damaged permanent faults and battles in this Chamber, and you are naturally ending in the way that you have ended.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u143	Mr. Dilov, excuse me for a second. I take that as an introduction to the speech, but let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u144	The theme is that this law will not be supported, this bill, this Parliament decision, excuse me, will not be simply supported by stubbornness because it is proposed by some people. In the same way, I remind Mr. Mitov, because, where everything began, the obvious ignorance of the Energy Act in what terms the KEWRC was pronounced, led to a violent change of good President Ivanov, who had nothing to do with GERB, by the way, just your continuing pursuit of election talk to be satisfied. And now we're in this mess, despite all the warnings that our more experienced colleagues have given you, that we're doing something anticonstitutional, that we're doing something that's going to have bad consequences that it has. I had prepared a longer speech and a more philosophical one, but here the President replicated me. You are putting us in one situation, including with this particular decision of........................................................................................ At least answer the question why Borisov manages nine years and you can't even six months? Because you can, and you can't. He did not come with the Third Ukrainian Front or the Sixth American Front of Power. He was chosen by the Bulgarians to rule. Okay-bad, a few months less than the longest-run Prime Minister Stanko Todorov. And the last thing I want to tell you is if we can learn any lessons from this whole situation. It makes sense that this decision should be supported, perhaps purely as a legislative act is not a big deal, but it will really calm down, return some normality. Ivan Ivanov is a proven professional, you can hardly blame him for political bias and I do not see why, I do not hear more from the right, at the right, a few words to be said about him because it was a good specialist of theirs. But the good story I want to finish with is from shop. This is for a shop that comes back from the fair in Elin Pelin, where he was beaten, raped and robbed, walked on the road and said, "Oh, on the other hand, you learn. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] But you haven't learned for six months you've been walking this path, but really, learn! We're not malicious. Elections are coming, there will be decided who, what, how. All our decisions we've been telling you have not been malicious. Why did you think they were malicious? Why? That's what I couldn't figure out? Bless you! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u145	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. For a line? Mr. Donchev first, then Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dilov, I agree with your analysis in general, but you have one significant flaw in it, and this is the symptom of total cognitive misery that you can't understand what's going on? I listen to much of the debate, and I never cease to wonder what a large part of my fellow Members' speeches do not have any direct connection to the subject. These are parallel worlds. Let us not comment on the colleague, who I miss for Mrs Bachvarova, who worked with her and does not know her supervisor's portfolio. He didn't know what she was doing?! Goodbye! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u147	Mr. Stankov, second line, and third line, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dilov, because you mentioned that no one has actually mentioned in essence a few words about Mr. Ivan Ivanov, who is a long-standing Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, elected in the distant 2015 year. I, as a person, had the opportunity to work with him for more than six years, only I would like to say to you that today's decision, apart from making a mistake, of a decision of the Parliament, which is unconstitutional, has had a kind of a victory to return the post, and rather a continuation of the mandate of a person who has contributed to a large extent to all energy reforms that have taken place since 2015, and to this day. We are talking about the restoration and creation of the Energy Exchange, we are talking about clearing all obligations in energy and creating mechanisms, we are talking about a person who has been actively involved in the creation of the Energy Exchange Fund and many other things. In other words, a serious person, who I am sure, even at this time, when he was described, even today by the President of the State, as a time when it was shown that energy was the most seriously affected by the management of the "Change" will help the processes again to step on their feet and continue to develop as well as years ago, and it was profitable, well, with clear plans what and how will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u149	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Mrs. Miteva, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stankov surprised me a little. Mr. Dilov, this decision is precisely because of this, because Mr. Ivanov is a fine person who, regardless of the decision of the Constitutional Court without our act to settle the consequences, given the lack of such practice and the new practice of the Constitutional Court of 2020, will not enter the President's office because he is irresponsible, but because he too much respects the rule of law and because he knows what legal certainty and stability are and because he knows what the consequences of the KEWRC's acts on the whole of society are and will not have any doubt in any act of the Commission from now on, but also in view of the whole political environment. Here, with your words in mind, I will only say that we are seeing again the principle "Fast slowly!"... because what happened is that the Law was adopted and entered into force on February 1st, on February 9th we elected the Chairman of the KEWRC and if we had adopted this 14-day deadline, some seven days we were separated from a fully constitutionally appropriate solution. Unfortunately, in those seven days nothing happened. The KEWRC did not take any important decision, including by the end of February nothing significant happened in the KEWRC and this was just a blow to the empty space of the National Assembly and another disgraceful act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues. I didn't expect my speech to have three lines, and I'm even more used to not being understood for natural reasons...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u153	That's why we don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u154	That's how we were born, yeah, and I'm always looking for the guilt in myself, and that's what's good about people with logopedic flaws, that when they don't understand them, they're looking for the blame in themselves. It is quite essentially my statement, because I started it with that perhaps I do not understand the legal consequences of not accepting this decision, but Mrs. Miteva explains them, and then I am twice as worried, because indeed, if these oaths that we hear every day about national responsible behaviour, about state responsible behaviour, then we should not leave this sector in chaos because we are really risking it for two months, and it is precisely in the midst of an election campaign that this chaos will become much bigger. With regard to Mr. Ivanov, I do not want to enter into a rhetoric that we will paint him as Napoleon returning from St. Helena. First of all, he's not gonna like it, he's a really humble guy, I've known him since the 40th National Assembly, in which we were colleagues, very committed to what he does, meticulous to boring sometimes. But at the end of the day, think about who's keeping the country going? The state is supported by officials and perhaps politicians do not understand that the essence of politics is 90% dreams and 10% to get officials to work or vice versa.. 10% dreams, and 90% to get officials to work. When do civil servants work? When they are calm, when they are confident that they will not become victims of political brooms and repression, when they have this predictability that all Bulgarian citizens are looking for. I think this is how I respond to the first line, because I do not know how GERB employed his staff. There are many of these in this Assembly, and not only in the parliamentary group of GERB, and they are not stupid people at all, in a sense they are well-intentioned, they have kept the human inside themselves, that is, they have not been eaten by Boyko Borisov, as you remember there was such a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u155	Those that have been eaten are gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u156	Yeah, there was a sign like that, maybe the eaten aren't just in the gym, yeah, it makes sense. But I really think that we all need to make an effort because people like Ivan Ivanov and, in general, the state officials whom we choose and who we encourage are supporting the state. We are the ones who are trying to give her some direction, some strategy, but those who support her and meet with Bulgarian citizens every day and the Bulgarian citizens remain under the impression of what country they live in are the civil servants of the judiciary and in every field of activity. So that should be our concern, not just today, but in the future. I end by asking you to change your mind about something pre-electional, points won't be made because you won't support this decision at the Assembly, but I do trust Mrs. Miteva, if we support him, we will solve a vagueness and create peace. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u157	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. For speech "Nastimir Ananiev."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are discussing the situation in KEWRC, what is interesting is that the proposal that the IHN have given did not invite Mr. Ivan Ivanov to the Chamber, we do not even know if he wants to be president of KEWRC, but we will vote him and choose him in such a position, or we will put him in such a position? For me, this whole approach hasn't been very thoughtful. We've heard different speeches. We've heard people who, when they're on this stage, become big lions, and it turns out that on the Coalition Council they're mice and listen to what they're saying, but on the stands they're very, very strong. This was also seen yesterday, by the way, at one of the revotings they were quarrelled and immediately turned out to be listening, but from the stands they are very, very strong. Unfortunately, we've also heard talk of legal debauchery. We have heard nothing of the moral debauchery we see in coalitions, in coalitions that flow in the National Assembly. [[Laughter and lines]] [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u159	Colleagues, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u160	And political debauchery. Claps by MPs Toshko Yordanov and Stanislav Balabanov and shouts:
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u161	Wait, Mr. Ananiev, for a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u162	GERB are working with DPS, ISN. For me, it absolutely shows where we really are. We also heard from one of our colleagues that you should be careful and what clothing you come to work in. We will not come along Bermuds, as Mr. Georgiev said, but it turns out that many people go out and actually speak with an intellectual level of Bermuds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u163	It's not about the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u164	So it's important to me when we make one decision, first of all, when it comes to a particular person, we need to hear this person. Isn't this the time to hear from Ivan Ivanov and say yes, I understand the situation. Yeah, I agree. No, proposed, he's not even invited with clearance, and we don't know what the guy thinks, but today we have to vote him out and say you are. For me, somehow the whole thing hasn't been considered. And also that three proposals have been submitted by ISN, GERB and DPS, all in one direction, agreed to withdraw the other two, we are currently discussing this to
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u165	That's not an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u166	However, it was important to me and I think it is key that Ivan Ivanov be in this room to hear what he thinks. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u167	Well, wait, wait now. [[People want the floor.]] Hold on, hold on. Now, before you raise all your hands, Peter Petrov, Iskren Mitev and Iva Miteva were raised before you. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm judging, with ten demands, now, I'm telling you, before you raised your hands, that's why. Mr. Petrov, you go first. Then Iskren Mitev, then Eva Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u168	For a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u169	What kind of personal explanation do you have?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u170	The entire DPS group is affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u171	Here you go, Mr. Petrov. We'll discuss it with the DPS later.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u172	Thank you for your reply, Mr. Chairman. It is provoked by the mention of rebirth and the fairy tales here about political debauchery. I do not agree, and I would like to mention to all those who are an outstanding example of this political debauchery, in the last five or six years, that there have been no such polls in various political agreements. I would just like to mention to these people, representatives of political debauchery, if they are present in this Chamber, that when the closure of the special courts was voted, the rebirth voted in unison with. When the request for the paper vote cannot be returned, the re-enactment votes with.. We continue the Change.............................................................................................. When the election of a new governor of the BNB was voted, in unison we continue the Change and Resurrection voted together. So I can't understand why it would be so selective from representatives of political debauchery that some feelings of such false coalitions could be created. Finally, at least it was mentioned here about the appearance of sneakers, well, unfortunately, we have also seen appearances in Bermuda, which I have complained about personally and at the previous President of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly precisely in this case, unfortunately, colleague Nastimir Ananiev. Unfortunately, since it is not respect for the institution to enter the National Assembly on Tuesday, on committee day, with Bermuda and sneakers. I don't know how you know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u173	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Second line Iskren Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ananiev, in part of your speech you explained for a little bit the connection between the birth and GERB and this relationship for me is very interesting, as they both protested together, as they wanted to give power to Geshev, we heard from a previous statement here of Mr. Bojankov. Can you, Mr. Ananiev, explain to us more in your duplicate to take the time, and tell us about this strong relationship and support between AGE and GERB, how it is possible for some wrestlers against GERB to support them so much?! [[GERB-SDS lines]] So, isn't this where Mr. Dilov once said "cognitive dissonance"? Can you explain to us how you can fight against someone and so stubbornly support them, as the AGE supports GERB, and Boyko Borisov, of course, personally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u175	Now, if you answer these questions, it should be in the context of the Decision, you should try.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u176	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u177	One moment, now Mrs. Miteva third line. Then the duplicate, then the personal explanation one and then the two procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u178	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u179	One man at a time, calm down. Two days left, all procedures will pass. Here you are, Mrs. Miteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ananiev, you were also a member of the National Assembly and I regret that your speech has shown us all in this Chamber that two and a half hours have been meaningless and completely lost because it turns out that you have obviously either not listened or have not understood anything, and unfortunately, these words of yours show the true face of what has been happening for the past six months and why it has come to this day and today's decision of the National Assembly really very sad. And as for the mice in the Coalition, if we were mice, we'd keep sitting in the Coalition. We left the coalition because we were the only ones who at every Coalition Council and in the National Assembly, here and Mr. Gurov can confirm, and in the Council of Ministers, to whom I have attended, we were the only opposition within the Coalition, because we could not agree that the rule of law would be trampled daily, that why we entered the National Assembly would be distorted and transformed. Therefore, Mr. Ananiev, we are going to elections because of your arrogant and insolent behavior. For not that we were picking on each other because we wanted to work in a new way, and you allowed it to work the old way. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Mr. Ananiev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Petrov, they said by the votes you'd recognize them. You enter it simple, there are independent organizations such as the Guard, you enter the Guard and you look at the statistics with whom do you most often vote Resurrection? With GERB and DPS clearly, there are no subjectivism, there are statistics [[speaking indistinctly]] , these are numbers, so I don't know what to answer to you more regarding the vote, although the truth about what was going on at the age, this is perhaps to Mr. Mitev in a way, can be read from what Mrs. Elena Guncheva told what is going on in your group, who you listen to, how decisions are made and so on. I think there's a lot of factology that can show how, with whom and why you're voting. I suppose, Mr. Mitev, that fits your line as well. Mrs. Miteva, you mentioned in your statement on 2020 when there were no problems with legislation. I am referring to the National Assembly, this is during the Forty-fourth National Assembly, when you are part of the Legal Directorate and I suppose that most legal laws have passed through this Directorate, which perhaps statistics confirm it. Now, at some point, when you became a representative of the people, all those nonsense that you said from the stage happened. Well, maybe you should go back to the Legal Directorate to keep control there. But the other thing that's very important, you've been talking about arrogant behavior, and there's a guy sitting next to you who's come out and who may have shown, for the last six or seven months, a lot of arrogant behavior from the tribune itself. Now, we understand that outside the stands is a different attitude, but from the stands, it's arrogant behavior, which I think is kind of bizarre to talk about arrogant behavior, given that everyone sees it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u183	Thank you. [[People want the floor.]] One moment, one moment, I'll report it. First, let's see if I'm missing someone, just a second. I'll add Toshko Yordanov to the list and report what we have. First, I'd like to report the remaining time to the groups. We are continuing the Change.We are continuing the Change. 25 minutes; GERB-SDS. 11 minutes; DPS. 12 minutes; BSP. 16 minutes;.There is such a people.. 3 minutes; DB. 15 minutes;................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then I'd like to say who I have signed up for procedures of a different nature. A personal explanation by assuming that, on behalf of the group, you are doing it; Ahmed Ahmedov, Abrovski and Cholakov. [[Heckling]] Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Emil Georgiev's procedure did not specify what, then Toshko Yordanov's personal explanation, Iva Miteva also personal explanation. Once we have exhausted these procedures, I will see if there are any more willing to speak, and if there is, I will rest, and if there is no, I will ask that we clear this point and then take a break. First, Mr. Ibryamov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am taking a personal explanation procedure because of the fact that I am affected by the words of Mr. Ananiev, who called the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that we are committing political debauchery. Mr. Ananiev, if you are an example of political truce and conduct and decency, then the priests of the love of the Ring are saints. Thank you. [[Laughter, noise, lines and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u185	Mr. Ibryamov! Mr. Yordanov, it wasn't that funny to me. Now I give the floor to Mr. Ahmedov in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is in the manner of conduct and my request to you is that you do not allow Mr. Ananiev to lie in his Bolshevik attempt to restore communism, to prevent this misunderstanding from this high tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u187	Mr. Ahmedov, I'm making you a note, not yet under the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u188	I understand that sometimes nature makes mistakes. Thank you. [[Laughter, noise, lines and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u189	Now, for these words, Mr. Ahmedov, I should punish you with a remark at the very least. I will not do this because you will not be able to object afterwards to the Presidential Council, but I really ask you very much to follow the good tone. Whatever it is, we are MPs and I think such a language is indeed unacceptable in this House. [[The National Representative Dimitar Gochev goes to the stand and asks the President for the word for procedure.]] About what? Wait a minute, there are other procedures requested first. After Mrs. Miteva wait for her to explain herself, then I will give you the floor. So, then we have Mr. Abrovsky in the manner of conduct. Here you are, by calling on us to really respect, as far as possible, the good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must observe the good tone and this is the reason for the current procedure. It's aimed specifically at you. Please, Mr President, when people speak out of this tribune on such an important point, who, as we have just seen, clearly demonstrate political weakness, interrupt them because you see what is happening. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u191	Mr. Cholakov in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u192	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A very well-meaning note to you. After Mr. Ananiev's speech, dozens of people asked for a reply and you chose because perhaps there was no way, you chose three people of whom only one was a lawyer, the others did not, and that is why the discussion started again in general political issues. Perhaps you should still choose three lawyers to make a reply, because Mr. Ananiev's statement contained a purely legal moment. If an appendicitis operation is being discussed here on the stand, I will not want to make a statement, and I suppose the chairman will not give the floor to lawyers to speak on medical matters. It was a legal matter, and you just had to think differently. I am using this case to say that Mr. Ivan Ivanov is Chairman of the KEWRC and this does not depend on his desire or reluctance. Once again, in order to bring the discussion back to the mermaid, with the act of the National Assembly, we simply ensure that we implement the Constitutional Court's decision. A legal advice, which I give with all my conviction, can enter Mr. Ivan Ivanov in one day in the KEWRC building, sign an order to move one of the members and come out if he does not want to be responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u193	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u194	Please, please, let's not argue. I am telling you one possible solution, and in the course of the debate and in the course of the vote I will also tell you more solutions. But it's a legal matter, so stay out of our business. That's what I'm saying. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u195	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Come on, I won't explain for long, but in the case of lines, the principle is that they're all from different political groups. There is no way to select lawyers and non-jurists, and I know from the practice that in most lawyers each one is of a different opinion than the other, so let's give pluralistically everyone to express themselves according to what the previous speaker said. Mr. Georgiev asked for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just wondering, guys, which bottom are we going to hit today? We canonized the priests of love, talking about political debauchery?! Mr. Ivanov is a truly dignified man whom I have known for five years as Chairman of the Federation of Consumers, and I say this very seriously. Let's stop practicing on his back. We're running campaign propaganda right now. This man doesn't deserve it. Let's stop with all the speeches, all the lines. [[Heckling]] I don't want to take mine. Don't take mine. My, your, when it comes to political debauchery, I stop talking and asking my colleagues to speak of debauchery, and you yesterday, who led us to North Korea, did you vote in favour of F-16? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u197	Mr. Georgiev, this was supposed to be a procedure for me now, and you're asking questions about rebirth. Now they're gonna want to answer for sure. Colleagues, I'm really asking you to calm down a little bit, because we now have a series of personal explanations. Then on personal explanations some will ask for personal explanations again. Let us approach the following speeches carefully so that they do not lead to an escalation of the tensions in this House, but vice versa. I give Mr. Yordanov the floor for a personal explanation. No insulting words, please, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u198	Yeah, I'll try not to escalate the pressure. Mr. Ananiev, let's assume I'm arrogant, but I'd rather be arrogant, telling the truth than a rogue, vile, ruthless liar! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u199	I take it that's not personalized. [[National Representative Dimitar Gochev wants the floor.]] Wait, we have a few more, Mr. Gochev. Mrs. Miteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the debate, I was talking about legal debauchery, not political debauchery. [[Laughter]] That's what Professor Stefan Kirov said 120 years ago. You see, colleagues, where are we back?! If anyone has anything else in mind with political debauchery, that's another topic. Mr. Ananiev, for your call to me. I find it extremely embarrassing and this is an extremely bad sign of this National Assembly that I, as an expert and director of the Legislative Directorate, until my entry into the National Assembly, especially in this Parliament, could force and stop laws and not allow any of my laws to enter the Constitutional Court and be declared unconstitutional, unlike now that I am a people's representative and I am in a ruling coalition and I cannot stop the adoption of such acts. Yeah, I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Now Dimitar Gochev has the floor. I don't know what for. [[Replys from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Excuse me? [[Heckling]] Mr. Karimansky, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u202	REPLY: How is that not true?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u203	Don't force me on your back to see who asked for the word. Wait your turn, we'll get to you, what's the problem?! Do I have to do this right now?! Please don't yell at me from the hall. [[Heckling]] Mr. Gochev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u204	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is entirely with you. You have argued your decision not to punish the gentlemen Ahmedov and Ibramov, you have argued your decision not to impose punishment on Mr. Yordanov for his speech just now. I find your decisions incorrect and I think that all three persons should be punished, Mr. Ahmedov, Mr. Ibryamov and Mr. Yordanov. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u205	You're absolutely right, Mr. Gochev. I'm even a little uncomfortable having to hold this meeting, but it's necessary and I can't get up from here right now. I'm really asking you to behave yourself and respectfully in one of our last days. Mr. Karimansky, before you, a personal explanation asked Mr. Ananiev, who was addressed several times. [[Noise and lines.]] We'll get to you. Mr. Ananiev, come in. [[Heckling]] He may have challenged him, but he hasn't challenged the words that were spoken at his address, so please! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman! The DPS is showing their real face. There's nothing more to say. It's a good thing they can't even make arguments, but they come up with insults. The same was for Mr. Yordanov, who, as I said, is arrogant only from this tribune. He's not really anywhere else, but on the stands he gets brave, strong and always insults. Of course, there are no arguments to defend his position, but insults. I just want to say one thing because Mr. Cholakov used his procedure as a line to me. In fact he did not answer a question, he says: Ivan Ivanov was chosen. Then why do we need a solution? Why should there be a decision of the National Assembly if it is elected?!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u207	Mr. Ananiev, this is a little outside of the personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u208	No, it's even on the subject, by the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u209	Because Mr. Cholakov came out of the personal explanation. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants the floor.]] Mr. Yordanov, I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u210	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u211	For a personal explanation of a personal explanation?! If you want to give some procedure, but first it's Mr. Karimansky and then.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u212	Okay, the way you're leading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u213	Okay, let Mr. Karimansky go first. Guys, let's get this thing over with. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's really act like MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u214	Dear Mr. Karimansky! Dear Mr. Chairman! [[Laughter]] Well, because he hasn't given me the floor for so long, that's why I'm confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u215	You're tense. Let's go now.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u216	No, no, I'm calm now. After I said that, I'm calm. Mr. Chairman, you missed the hall, and you missed it a few words ago. The first thing I would like to bring you back to the debate, you let everyone talk about any political election topics first. Secondly, you are presiding at the time of the National Assembly, you should strictly adhere to the Constitution, respect the Constitution, and when a people's representative here makes a statement that is not relevant to the subject, and no longer respects a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has very clearly said what needs to be fulfilled, then you also violate the Rules because you do not make a note to it and because you leave it to speak free writings. And lastly, you can't punish anyone if you don't punish the first person who mentioned political debauchery.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u217	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u218	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u219	In the manner of holding "Toshko Yordanov."
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u220	By the way, you didn't personally give me...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u221	No, in the manner of keeping it. Then Mrs. Atanasova and I suggest we calm down and get to the point. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the way it's supposed to be. You really give personal explanations to people who first started this, and it was normal to have a reaction. Not to mention I didn't mention it. You can't let this multi-political rosy wrist talk about coalition councils he wasn't there for, and how I behaved there. [[Laughter]] Anyone who has attended the coalition councils will not form this sentence, which forms this political fan.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u223	Mr. Yordanov, I'll take your word for it. That's enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u224	But I'm talking about botany and... [[Applause from IHN. The chairman's shutting down the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u225	Mr. Yordanov, please. We understand what you mean. Scream, we'll wait. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] So, are we done with the insults, or should I list all the ones that I'm going to take out on the transcripts and impose the punishments on you, and that's how they're gonna stay? [[Reply.]] What's yours on? [[Reply.]] But first Mrs. Atanasova had the floor and then you. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For several hours, most of the debate has been so low and ugly that I don't know how you don't feel, we don't feel uncomfortable?! For months, we've seen coalition, ideological and all kinds of disintegration. Today we saw morale. Please, let's get this over with. Let's finish what you demonstrate in plenary. It has come to this because the majority of you did not hear all the arguments against the outrageous violation of the laws and the Constitution. However, none of us today allowed ourselves to come out and tell you simply: "Did we tell you that it would come to this?" "Because we also told you with that insane decision from last year, when you imposed a moratorium on all acts of the Council of Ministers of Boyko Borisov, which was declared unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u227	Mrs. Atanasova, after all...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u228	We told you a lot after that that you were making the wrong decisions. Now I'm taking a procedure, Mr. Chairman, to tell you again, I'm ashamed that you're my colleagues. Please proceed to the vote, Mr. Chairman, and this devastating debate for the Bulgarian Parliamentaryism to end. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Knocking on the bank by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u229	I can only join the last call, but at the same time I can't help but give the floor to those who have spoken. There were two requirements. [[Reply.]] Seeing your smile, I'm afraid we'll continue the debate in the same tone. [[Noise and lines.]] I think the time has come to really close this page and... [[Reply.]] No, I'm asking you very much. I think we know what you mean, we can save it, really. Mr. Nenkov, if you hold back, I will close the discussion and move on to the vote. [[(Loud noise and lines. (Applause)]] The decision is read. It's the way it's proposed. I think there are no proposals to add to it, so we will vote on it as it is proposed. After the vote, there is a request for two procedures, I just warn you to just wait, not to leave immediately. I think that I can now put to the vote the proposal for a Decision to settle the effects of Constitutional Court Decision No 8 of 2022 on Constitutional Case No 4 of 2022. They voted 114 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi: There is no 121...]] It is not necessary, but a re-voting because a colleague has failed to vote. [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Well, it's not generally justified. [[(Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski:]] You don't deserve it because...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u230	Well, why? Well, why? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u231	...a moment ago, I was unwarranted by you, but please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u232	Ah, it was absolutely reasonable. Dear Mr. Vigenin, I propose a re-vote, as the President of the Republic of Bulgaria has called on us to solve this problem this morning. And very please all who do not participate in the vote means that they do not respect the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(Loud noise and lines. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u233	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. However, let us not forget that the National Assembly is the leading institution, so that we do not suggest such things at the moment. [[(Loud noise and lines. (Applause)]] It's a re-vote. Either way, Mr. Karadaye asked for it first and hard, so on the basis of his request, I'm doing it. They voted 142 MPs: for 132 MPs, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We have two procedures. First Mrs. Nalbant and then Mr. Atalay. [[Reply from the National Representative Mukaddes Nalbant: "Let Mr. Atalay. "]] Mr. Atalay, you go first.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, thank you to all those who voted for a clear conscience that we are going to resolve a misunderstanding that...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u235	Mr. Atalay, there is something else you've asked for now. That's...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u236	One misunderstanding... Just to thank them, that's why I wanted the floor, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u237	Okay, but there's usually no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u238	I also thank those who did not vote because they were still present. But one more thing. Up here there are guests from Plovdiv-district. [[Applause.]] They've come to look, to see how the National Assembly works. I'm sure next time they'll know who to vote for. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u239	We set a good example for them. Here you go, Mrs. Nalbant. And then I'm gonna give it a rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the debate that took place today, I intended to take the floor under procedure after a remark was made by Mr. Toshko Yordanov about his clothing, but I decided not to divert the debate in another direction. But now I will allow myself to say a few words perhaps on this last day of this National Assembly. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I keep not taking Mr. Tosko Yordanov's T-shirt...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u241	Now you're going to provoke a personal explanation, Mrs. Nalbunt.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u242	...but, but the problem is the double standard that the Presidents, the Presidents of this National Assembly always show. And my recommendation to every next president of a next National Assembly is not to apply a double standard, because you, colleagues, if you look around, will see sports and attractive clothing, you will see jeans, sneakers, shirts on trousers, shirts without a tie, with a tie, transparent skirts and dresses and so on. I'll give you an example. Dear colleagues, I have mentioned to you that I am a teacher and have long worked at the Ministry of Education. There was a year's meeting a year with the heads of regional inspectors, where I made a serious remark to the superiors about their clothing. I told them the following because the head of the regional inspectorate was called the inspectorates at the time, is an example of role models of directors, directors are an example of role models of teachers, teachers are an example of role models of students. We here in this National Assembly, honourable Members, not only with our appearance, but with our language, and with our conduct, must be an example of imitation, and this is also a recommendation to the present and to each subsequent President of the National Assembly. The Bulgarian language that is used here is outrageous, honourable colleagues. Especially when they come out to talk ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u243	Mrs. Nalbunt!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u244	And the President must make a serious remark to them about eke, softness, lack of speech, lack of vocabulary. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS and DPS and shouts: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] And to conduct, fellow Members, our conduct should not be false! But I'm going to give you two examples at the risk of someone asking for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u245	Mrs. Nalbant, you've already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u246	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u247	Not to mention the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u248	One minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u249	It's very important, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u250	I'm gonna ask for a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u251	Make it 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u252	I had the pleasure or dissatisfaction of participating in a TV debate with Lena. Then...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u253	No, let's... For people who aren't here, you shouldn't!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u254	And I wished her to be wise, to be wise. But apparently that wish wasn't justified, and so, with...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u255	What kind of procedure is this??
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u256	Mrs. Nalbant, I'll take your word for it. Just out of respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u257	Take it from me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u258	Out of respect for the time, for the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u259	The other one.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u260	But this is not the time for personal explanations...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u261	The other thing I want to set as an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u262	...the broadest range of topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u263	The other thing I want to set as an example is something that I have been holding back for too long, but at the Conference of Presidents, I have said it. So often Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, who sits there, nearest...
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u264	What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u265	Mrs. Nalbant, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u266	...by my side, he resented me... [[The President shall exclude the speaker's microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u267	Mrs. Nalbunt! [[National Representative Mukaddes Nalbant continues to speak to off microphones. Claps by DPS.]] Mrs. Nalbunt! [[Heckling]] I can't tell how many seconds there are!
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u268	I thought we had a deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u269	So, twice as much time on a subject that has nothing to do with it! [[DPS lines.]] Out of respect, I left as my colleague, but I beg you very much! On the last day, we must brutally break the rules and everything! [[DPS lines.]] Let's behave ourselves. Rest till 12.35. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u270	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. Before I started with the next item on the agenda, there was a procedure by Iskren Arabadzhiev. Mr. Arabadjiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to make a procedure with regard to the second voting point of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code to be the first point after the break, given the importance of the Bill and the fact that by 2 August we have to transpose two European directives into the legislation and the introduction of parental leave within 2 months until the 8th anniversary of the child. I believe that we can do this today and thank all my fellow Members who would support this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u272	Thank you, Mr. Arabadjiev. A reverse opinion? I won't. Any other procedures, colleagues, in relation to the weekly program? No. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Arabadzhiev "point 11 of the weekly Programme" to be point 5, that is to say, to continue with it. Please, voting mode. Vote 98 MPs: 86, against 10, abstention 2. That's how the offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u273	REPLICA: Revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u274	Revoting, coworkers! 100 MPs voted: 87, against 11, abstention 2. That's how the offer is accepted. [[Reply of the National Representative Denitsa Sacheva.]] Mrs. Sacheva, we only exchanged point 11, it's point 5, so we're moving on with it. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Mr. Arabadjiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I present to you the report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, No 47-202-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 June 2022, adopted on the first vote on 20 July 2022. "Ideas for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. 5 words at the earliest opportunity or by one month at the latest after the end of the period shall be replaced by the words at the latest until the end of the month. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall include: 2 para. 4 is amended as follows: (4) When the employer refuses an amendment of the employment obligation under para. 2, he shall be obliged within one month to provide the worker or employee with a reasoned written reply unless the proposal has been made more than twice over a period of one year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6 as in para. 2 the words "lower" shall be replaced by "shorter" and in para. 4 the words shall be notified to the Commission and shall be replaced by the words shall be communicated to the European Parliament and to the Council by the European Parliament and to the Council. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, i.e. 5 the word "news" is deleted and para. 4 is amended as follows: . (4) Where the employer refuses to amend the employment obligation, he shall be obliged to provide the employee with a reasoned written response within 14 days. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u276	That's it. Are there any comments on the texts read? I can't see. In this situation, I shall put to the vote and paragraphs 1 to 9 including, as presented to you by the President of the Commission. Please, voting mode. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposed texts have been adopted. You continue with the Additional provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u277	'Additional provision.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11 by: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 letter (b) after the words (al. 4s is added to the text before this. 1.................................................................................. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in art. 53d, para. 2 the words "lower' shall be replaced by "shorter'; (b) in art. 53g, para. 2 the words of the child in a institution shall be replaced by the words of the child in a nursing institution. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u278	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches on the proposed texts? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I propose in one vote the additional provision, which is § 10, the name of the Transitional and Final Provisions Subsection, § 11, § 12, § 13, § 14 and § 15. Please, voting mode. Vote 127 MPs: 114, none, abstention 13. This is how the texts and the entire bill were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Commission and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I would like to thank all my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u280	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TERRITORY TERRITORY ASSISTANCE. Report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who will present the report? [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "Juliya. "]] Order him to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47-254-01-64, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022; a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47-254-01-77, submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs, submitted on 23 June 2022; a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area No 47 254 01 78, submitted by Alexander Dunchev on 24 June 2022, and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47-254-01-91, submitted by Snezhanka Trajanska and a group of MPs on 7 July 2022. At an extraordinary meeting held on 12 July 2022, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management held a public discussion on: Draft for Supplement to the Law on Structure in the Area, No 47-254-01-64, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs on 10 June 2022; Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure in the Area, No 47-254-01-77, submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs, submitted on 23 June 2022; Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure in the Area, No 47-254-01-78, submitted by Alexander Dunchev on 24 June 2022; and Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure in the Area, No 47-254-01-91, submitted by Snezhanka Trajanska and group of National Representatives on 7 July 2022. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov, Mrs. Katerina Gramatikova, Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Stefan Asparuhov, Advisor to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; Experts from the Ministry; from the Office of Road Infrastructure and Mrs. Nina Boyadjieva, Head of Department in the Administration of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria; Mr. Marin Gergov, Chairman of the Board of Engineers in Investment Design, and Mr. Anton Chipev from the Chamber, Mr. Borislav Borisov, Vice-President of the Board of Architects in Bulgaria, Mrs. Valentina Uzunova and Mr. Elenko Bozhkov from the Chamber of Energy Auditors. The bill submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs provides for the facilitation of the cable-building regime in co-owners' buildings for individual connection of charging points for electric cars without requiring the consent of the other co-owners. The bill submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs was presented by Mr. Vladislav Panev. The bill provides for the relief of the construction, equipment or replacement of installations for the production of electricity, heat or energy for cooling from renewable sources only for own use if their total installed capacity does not exceed 10,8 kW, as well as the relief of the construction and reconstruction regime from vertically into horizontal distribution of internal building systems for heating and domestic hot water supply in existing buildings. The bill submitted by Alexander Dunchev provides for an extension of the circle of stakeholders in the appeal of the general planning plans, the authorisation of the construction and the authorisation of the use of certain categories of sites which fall under Annexes 1 and 2 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, as well as the restoration of the two-installation proceedings in the event of an appeal of detailed planning plans, the approval of investment projects and the granting of building permits for sites designated as such by a measure of national importance by the Council of Ministers and are objects of strategic importance. The bill submitted by Snow White Trojanska and a group of MPs was presented by Mrs Snow White Troyanska. It stressed that the amendments to the Law on Construction on the Area are in implementation of measures from Annex No 12.. Regional development to the Agreement on Joint Management of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2021......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Law also provides for the provisions allowing the DNCC authorities to exercise more effective control over the activities of municipal administrations in the field of construction control for construction of fourth, fifth and sixth categories, including by imposing penalties for non-compliance within the time of instructions given by the DNCC authorities. The proposed changes also address the consequences of the constitutional provisions of the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria announced by Decision No 14/15.10.2020 and by Decision No 17/04/21 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Ms Trajanska pointed out that the bill combines some of the provisions of two laws on which there is consensus developed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which have undergone public discussion. In accordance with the provisions of art. 72, para. 2 The President of the Commission, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, announced that the drafts meet the requirements of the Law on Laws, the Decree on its implementation and the Law on Laws. Unnecessary technical errors have been made in the numbering of some of the paragraphs in the bills submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs and by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs who will be corrected between the two votes if the bills are adopted in the first vote. The representatives of the Chamber of Energy Auditors, the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria and the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design took part in the public discussion. Mrs. Valentina Uzunova from the Chamber of Energy Auditors took into account the provisions related to the energy performance of buildings and conformity assessments. The Law should make changes to the consultant who, as a participant in the construction process, should not be able to carry out an assessment of compliance of their own sites and will make written proposals for amendments to the Law in this direction. Mr. Borislav Borisov from the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria expressed principled support for the bill submitted by Ms. Trajanska and a group of MPs, making some concrete proposals. The Chamber of Architects suggests that the regime for placing moving objects should be governed by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, not by separate regulations of municipal councils, as there are now drastic differences in the different municipalities. The House's proposal for the construction and preservation of the green system is similar to that of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. With regard to the proposal that the assessment of the conformity of investment projects be carried out by the construction consultant from the first to fifth category of the Chamber propose that for the sites of the fourth and fifth categories the assessment of conformity be carried out by the project team manager in accordance with the order laid down in the ordinance under art. 2a. The House will make concrete written proposals between the two votes of the bills. Mr. Marin Gergov from the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design expressed principle support for the bills submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs and by Snezhanka Trayanska and a group of MPs. With regard to the bill submitted by Mr. Panev and a group of MPs, the Chamber share the need to ease the regime, but at the same time insist on ensuring the public interest and safety in the operation of the facilities concerned. The Chamber proposes to have an opinion from an engineer and project and the regime to be registered by submitting a document of ownership and legality of the building and informing the electricity distribution companies. Under the bill submitted by Ms. Trajanska and a group of MPs, Mr. Gergov said that they do not have a single position regarding the conformity assessment for all categories to be carried out by a consultant, but insist that the requirements for the consultant be increased by requiring them to hold the relevant category of construction design competence. The House will make concrete proposals on the bills if they are adopted in the first vote. The President of the Commission Mr. Ananiev urged the representatives of the Chambers to submit their written proposals in due time so that the Members of the Commission can submit between the two votes those of them who find them justified and appropriate. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on the bills submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs from Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs and Alexander Dunchev. The Ministry does not support the proposed amendments to these bills, and detailed arguments for not accepting the proposed amendments and additions are set out in the opinions. Following the presentation and public discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, as a result of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government: - without the law for supplement to the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47-254-01-64, submitted by Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs, is proposed to the National Assembly not to be adopted in the first vote; - with 9 votes in favour, without the opposition and with 1 vote abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction of the territory, No 47 254 01 77, submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote; - with 3 votes supposed to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law for construction of the territory, No 47-254-01-78, submitted by Alexander Dunchev, is proposed to the National Assembly not to be adopted in the first vote; - with 10 votes in favour of the House, without the opposition and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction in the Area, No 47-254-01-91, submitted by Snezhanka Trajanska and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u282	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, as has become clear, we are looking at four drafts of two proposed by the Commission to be adopted and two to be rejected. Before we go into discussion, is there a request from the importers for an opinion? Mr. Panev or Mr. Petrov? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As one of the importers, I would like to express an opinion on the Law on Changes to the Law on Structure in the Area, and I apologize in advance for reading the opinion. The current bill proposed amendments to the Law on Construction of the Area in implementation of art. 33, p. 1 of Directive 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity and amending Directive 2012/27 EU requiring the integration of electric mobility into the electricity network, with the order being the Member States without prejudice to the provisions of art. 33, p. 1 of Directive 2014/94 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council should provide the necessary regulations to facilitate the connection of both publicly available and private charging points to distribution grids for charging electric cars. The proposed changes are provoked by the current regulatory and administrative obstacles for citizens wishing to connect private charging points in their owned parking spaces in the co-owned garage floors of buildings to the electricity distribution network, due to the permissions required by the electricity distribution companies to build a private charge point under the Energy Act, on the one hand, and the complicated procedure for issuing such permits, according to the current rules in the Law on the Construction of the Area imposing contracting entities of similar entities, to be all co-owners of the garage floors, and not only the individual owner of a parking space for which a private charge point is requested, which owner is the only interested in issuing such a building permit under the Law. The remaining co-owners of this garage have no interest in being contracting entities within the meaning of the LU for granting permission to build a private charge point on one co-owner on the relevant garage floor, which currently creates an insurmountable obstacle to connecting such a private charge point to the electricity distribution network for charging electric cars. Next, the procedure for the supply of the relevant permits lasts a serious period, which is average of over one year and a half, and is linked to a lot of costs for the payment of each service for the design, for research by the energy distribution company, for publications, for the issue of an opinion by the energy distribution company, for the issue of a construction permit and so on. In general, this procedure also places the co-owners of ideal parts with a right to use to owners of individual sites or so-called separate garages for which the procedure is significantly easier and shorter and there is discrimination between the two groups of citizens. By facilitating the procedure for granting permission to build private charging points, the universal targets for reducing harmful emissions in the atmosphere are achieved, stimulating and encouraging citizens to purchase electric cars that can load in residential buildings at home of electric cars. In conclusion, Directive 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council in force from 5 June 2019 has been operating in relation to Bulgaria for more than three years and our country has not yet provided the necessary regulatory framework to facilitate the connection of private charging points to the distribution network in the above cases. The discontent of the owners of private charge points in Bulgaria can lead to the initiation of a criminal procedure which is not in the interest of our country if this proposal is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u284	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Panev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u285	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Our bill concerns a significant facility for the installation of RES own-use capacities of up to 10,8 kW, which means capacity that is entirely connected to roofs and individual households. For me, the benefits of this bill are mainly in two categories: one is the current energy crisis, which shows that Bulgaria needs much more installations - not only Bulgaria, but households need more energy independence, it needs to be made faster and easier, because at the moment the whole procedure for installing such facilities is purely administratively an average of about one year. The second is that it seems that in society there is still thinking, and this is caused by the legislative framework that investments in RES are mainly for large producers and small, unlike many other countries, are neglected, as the procedures are equally complex and equally long for both of them and for the others. With this bill, we want to do the opposite for small producers up to 10 kW for their own use, the procedures to be as relieved as possible so that we really stimulate people to invest in renewable energy. Thank you. I would like to do a procedure to extend the time of the meeting until this point is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u286	Thank you, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u287	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u288	Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to do a reverse procedure. It involves two things. First, a change in the Programme, as a next point to consider the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank; then to examine the point....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My second procedure is to extend the time to the examination of the last point I read in the order in which I read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u290	A counteroffer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u291	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, as this proposal makes a serious shift in the National Assembly's agenda for today's plenary day and we need to discuss it, so on behalf of the parliamentary group of a party, I ask you for a half hour's rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u292	Okay, you're entitled to that request. Twenty-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u293	Colleagues, I'm going to resume the hearing. Before the break, three procedural proposals were made. I will first put to the vote the procedural proposals made by Mr. Mitev, because if they are accepted, they will absorb Mr. Panev's proposal. Let me get this straight. Mr. Mitev's first suggestion is to make a shift in points such as t. 6, which is next to the one we're looking at, to go after the ninth point. So the arrangement to be t. 7, 8 and 9, after them t. 10 in practice: First vote on the Law on Countering Corruption. Do you understand the offer? [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? This is the second vote. First, let's vote the dots shift. They voted 123 MPs: 94, 26, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mitev's next proposal is to extend the working hours of today's Parliament meeting to the consideration of this point. 7, 8, 9 and the next is: First vote on the Law on Countering Corruption. Vote 131 MPs: 100, against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u294	I didn't get a vote and I want a re-vote and I want a motivation.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u295	All right, come on, let's get motivated.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u296	Not to motivate myself, but to make a procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman. I didn't get a vote. I am proposing a re-vote as before the re-vote to do a roll call check by reading the names of all MPs one by one. Let's see who's present, who's in the room? Is there a quorum in this room? Because what is currently happening is after the end of this National Assembly, and this undisputed power that is pulling the country into the abyss. What is being done today, I think there was one assessment at the time and it was called the Red Wind or the specificization is: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u297	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Procedure? All right, here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u298	Dear colleagues! You can't refuse, Mr. Chairman, check the quorum, but let it be with the computerised voting system. [[Noise and lines.]] This is the procedure I am doing. I have the right on behalf of a parliamentary group. It's my procedure. Thank you, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u299	Mr. Dimitrov, you beat me to it. I will respect Mr. Karadayi's request for a name check, but through the computerised system. Please check mode. Colleagues, take 10 minutes off, then we'll make a new registration. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u300	Colleagues, please take your seats. I'm resuming the hearing. We will make one more attempt to collect the necessary quorum in order to continue the sitting. Please, registration mode. Waiting, guys, we've got four and a half minutes. [[(Noise, lines and calls from MPs of GERB-SDS and DPS from the doors of the hall:]] I ask the Quaestors to close the hall doors. [[Laughter]] Abort registration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing today's plenary session only on debates. Please show the result on the dashboard by group. I am opening the discussion on the point that was initiated before the votes, namely the Laws on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Device in the Area. Are there any speeches, colleagues? Are there any statements on these bills? Mr. Terziysky, come in. Today's meeting will continue until 14.20 with a view to the requested rest on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you are, Mr. Terziysky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's interesting how the anti-corruption law comes on the agenda and suddenly it's emptying out?! However, let us return to the Law on Structure of the Area, in particular on the Law submitted by Ms Trajanska and a group of MPs from the former coalition. Regarding the Coalition Agreement, we had several very specific commitments at the time: reducing administrative burdens, preventing and combating corruption and protecting the public interest. I am happy that with this bill, despite the disagreements in the former coalition, we have managed to find a common language and enter these drafts and solve some really very pressing problems for the guild and for the whole society with the Law on Construction in the Area, namely reducing the administrative burden by releasing the main architects from certain non-military functions and giving higher responsibilities to the designers and to those exercising construction supervision. On the other hand, the assessment of the conformity of investment projects for all constructions of category 1 to 5 to be carried out only with complex reports by a consultant. I believe that the over-concentration of responsibilities in both the chief architects and the municipal administration is a prerequisite for negative practices and this bill will generally help and ease society and reduce corruption pressure. Separately, I believe that the DNCS should have much more serious functions in the process of the supervision of the construction itself and not so much of design and should exercise more effective control over the activities of municipal administrations and in the control of the constructions fourth, fifth and sixth categories above all. And, of course, given the tragic incidents in the implementation of power supply with temporary connections of moving objects, such as there were cases in Sofia, I believe that temporary connections to networks and facilities should be realized through a building permit. I believe that this is a good bill, which we have also been able to unite with the Commission at expert level, and I believe it will receive support. I hope he finds his way at second reading in this or the next parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u302	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Are there any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. Mr. Shishkov, I didn't see you at the registration. You shouldn't be here. [[Relations from the National Representative Mladen Shishkov.]] Here you go. You're absolutely right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u303	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I've prepared a long speech, by the way, because it's three bills. But perhaps I will have to be careful what I say, since I have learned that because of my speeches in the Commission, part of the College has decided to take away my right to design, respectively, to support my family through the profession that I have been exercising for more than 20 years. This is no longer bordering on communism for me, but totalitarianism, frankly. So I'm gonna be a little more open-minded in my speech. I will start by commenting on the bill of colleague Dunchev. For colleagues who are not aware of the details, I would like to clarify that five negative opinions and one in favour of this bill have been tabled against this bill. The negative opinions are provided by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Industrial Capital Association, the National Association of Bulgarian Black Sea Coast, the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, the National Association of Construction Entrepreneurs. In support of the Bill, an opinion was received only by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Yet, fellow Members, the Committee on Regional Policy and Public Works has supported this bill. Of course, colleagues in the ruling majority in resignation realized what madness they had supported and rushed to re-vote their decision at the next Commission meeting with an even more absurd motive, one of the Members' votes was not properly taken into account. No, colleagues, that's not the reason. We all know it. You have supported a bill that would cause enormous damage to the development of the state and it is good to admit it. But what are we talking about here? Instead of the widely proclaimed relief of the administrative burden, this bill offers another kind of burden, the burden of NGO racketeering. Unfortunately, there are still colleagues who have never understood that they were elected as MPs and not as representatives of highly specialised NGOs. Both during committees and during plenary sessions and through their legislative initiatives, these fellow Members continue to take the side of a limited circle of individuals, not on the side of society. The Orhu Convention is used as a front and a cover to offer all kinds of legislative nonsense. There is nothing wrong with civil society participating in the decision-making processes, colleagues, but this cannot be turned into a self-target. Bulgarian legislation, especially in the field of the environment, has provided for sufficient opportunities for citizens to participate in decision-making, especially when it comes to building objects with high risk of negative impacts on the environment. But obviously, this is not enough for some NGOs whose subject of activity is exhausted in green racketeering. Yeah, that's right. And those are not my words, these are the words of people who import similar bills. They themselves have repeatedly acknowledged that there are several organizations in the country that exist and are present thanks to dishonest practices. Those are their words. And now we are going to give more food to these organizations because, apparently, according to importers, the appeal procedures for acts provided for in the Law on Environmental Protection and the Biodiversity Act are insufficient. The mechanisms in force are not enough. And that's why we're now reaching for the Code of Conduct on the territory to repeat them there as well. Then what's next, guys? Maybe changes to the Public Procurement Act? I expect the next proposal to be all public procurement projects under Annex 1 and 2 of the Environmental Protection Act, except by the participants in the competition, companies can also be appealed by NGOs. If it's gonna be a crow, it's gonna be a mess. But in order not to be naked, I will give an example so that the Members of the National Assembly, as well as the Bulgarian society, of course, can be acquainted with what exactly law-making is boiling in the National Assembly at the moment. Take, for example, a small field for a relatively popular sport. Let's say paintball. You are the owner of two acres of property, agricultural, and you want to build a paintball field with adjacent service buildings to it. For this purpose, first of all, you need to check whether this intention is reflected in the general planning plan, which, according to the new proposal, can be appealed by the NGOs in question. It's a first defense mechanism. If you have accidentally gone through this protection mechanism, then the next step, namely investment intent. That investment intention may also be contested as it falls within the assumptions of the EIA Assessment Act. A second defence mechanism, which is currently in operation, by the way, and which contains several defence mechanisms within it. The next step is to prepare an investment project and issue a building permit. This authorisation, according to the new texts, will now be able to be appealed again by NGOs, which is a third safeguard mechanism. But that's not all, colleagues, there are more surprises. Next up is the fourth defense. Imagine that you've come all this way through administrations, built your court, invested funds, and just before you let it work, just before you put it into operation, a well-meaning NGO appears in quotes. And this NGO decides that you are disturbing the comfort of ants, for example, and is appealing your permission to put into service. I don't even want to imagine what would happen if the court, for some reason, found the appeal justified. I leave it to your imagination. In this case, it is not even a question of duplication of proceedings, which is completely contrary to all the regulations. It is about the same production, which can be repeated, colleagues, four times the double duplication, of the same production! The importer proposes the creation of two high-level legal acts that govern the same matter.. absolutely unacceptable! Now, this civil control is being offered to us right now, colleagues. And of course, the example is one of many that could be given. The lists of Appendix 1 and 2 are long. In short, if someone decides to invest in an enterprise, it can be stopped at any time, no matter how much money they have invested, including after they have built it and three times before it has proved that this enterprise will not contaminate the environment. This, dear Bulgarian citizens, is a great change. Investors will kill themselves to come to Bulgaria. And I won't even open a word to block the general planning plans and objects of national importance if this change is accepted. They are nowhere at the moment, and after such a change they will become completely blocked. Dear colleagues, dear Bulgarian citizens! This is a visual example of the change we have chosen and which supposedly had to take care of Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian business. A few words on the bill proposed by colleague Snezhanka Trajanska and a group of MPs. Colleagues, ZUT is an extremely difficult law. It is unacceptable to exercise on this law, because any altered comma, colleagues, has a direct impact on people and businesses. This bill has several not-bad ideas, such as dropping the requirement to determine the number of floors in the development of work plans, the other texts, colleagues, are extremely controversial. One of the most significant changes proposed in the Bill is the removal of municipal expert councils on the structure of the territory. This idea has been commented for a long time and makes sense of such a change, but the way it is proposed will create many problems. In the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, by the way, on my proposal, we have made an amendment in this direction by limiting the powers and obligations of the expert councils as much as possible. However, their complete removal will create a risk to the quality of projects, respectively for construction activities. Why? Because the experts in these councils are the last firewall against poor design, especially in part constructions. Very often, even after a report of conformity, engineers find gross errors in the projects, which have been missed and by technical control, and by the persons who have prepared the report. This topic has been discussed repeatedly with industry organizations and the automatic dropping of expert advice will increase the number of bad projects. In any case, an alternative to this protection should be sought to replace experts in the advice. Here an active participation should take the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design, which has a huge desire to take away my right to design because I am speaking from the platform and to committees. Projects should be controlled really, not formally and not on a friendly line, to carry out technical control as at the moment, but on a random basis. This will greatly improve the quality of the projects. Such an approach should be sought not only for part construction, but also for other parts in investment design, colleagues. Only in this way will real control be guaranteed after the expert advice is dropped. Otherwise, a huge risk to the investment process is created. No less interesting are the amendments to art. 147. First, importers propose the creation of two separate modes when placing moving objects, for the pavilion itself one row, for the installations to it another row. This will create a controversial practice and confusion of the administration and will complicate the process of issuing permissions to place the moving objects. The regime, colleagues, must be one. Another interesting change appears in art. 147. I'm asking for some attention here because I know that the matter is dry and uninteresting. Just a month ago, you colleagues changed the Law and decided to ease the regime for the construction of RES with up to five megawatts. Even then, I warned you that what you did was unacceptable, and a month later, we are witnessing a correction. However, instead of adjusting adequately what you did then, you offer something that is even more absurd. The requirement to provide documents for the construction of plants up to five megawatts is completely removed! In short, we can build 50 acres of solar panels without any documents. That's what the proposal says. Read it to yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u304	The Kilol.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u305	Five megawatts. Take a look at your proposal, Art. 147, p. 14a. We'll talk about it later. If adopted, this amendment will lead to absolute chaos in the construction of such plants, not only to administrative chaos, but also a huge risk to the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. I don't know if this version was made consciously or a technical error, but both options do not speak well about the intentions and competences of the importers. There's a third option, colleagues. It is possible that the bill was drawn up before this change was made to alleviate plants up to five megawatts and simply not in line with the new texts. But this means that the bills in this National Assembly are not written in the rooms of the MPs, but written elsewhere, and the MPs only sign something they do not understand. And by the way, colleagues, it wouldn't hurt to check your watches with the environmental legislation, where you've written huge nonsense in paragraphs 6 and 10. With regard to the texts repealed by the Constitutional Court, changes are again being applied that do not correspond to the recommendations of the Court, but we will comment on them in the event of a second vote on the bill. Eventually, which probably won't happen. And another interesting subject. You're returning DNCC control to small objects. Colleagues, as far as I have information from the DNC's website, have been unable to complete proceedings that have begun since the beginning of their existence by removing small objects. What gives you reason to believe that they currently have the capacity to deal with this task, or are we simply looking for a way to conceal a particular object by delaying its removal indefinitely over time? Colleagues, the National Assembly is not where we can practice writing referees. Every word we write has a direct impact on people and businesses. I urge you not to play so lightly with the legislative process. And, of course, I cannot fail to respect the colleagues from "Yes" in relation to their bill, which was submitted by Vladislav Panev and a group of MPs. We understand the desire to reduce the administrative burden in the construction of renewable energy plants. We are already talking about 10,8 kilos of what is your proposal. We, too, have always sought to refine legislation so as to alleviate procedures to the maximum, but this cannot be done at the expense of the uncontrolled carrying out of construction works, colleagues. In cases where heat or cooling plants are concerned, it is not correct to build without the necessary technical documentation. Here I am defending, by the way, the House of Engineers, let them also know that I am protecting their interests, made of a qualified designer, ensuring the proper functioning of the overall heating and cooling system. Thus, the proposed text also contradicts Directive 2010/31 EU, art. 6, 7 and 8. It contradicts the philosophy of the Law on Floor Property. Here, too, we enter very deep matter. The point of the opinion of an engineer-constructor and electric engineer is to show clearly and accurately the location of the installation, the way of installation, the place of accession, and the reconstruction of the existing electricity grid. In the absence of such opinions, as the importer wishes, this would lead to the following problems: First, installation of an installation outside the regulated building boundaries of the property; installation of installations on compromised existing structures which may lead to a risk of collapse; incorrect connection of the electrical installation for the production of electrical energy for own use, leading to overload, fire, short circuit and failure of people under voltage; unauthorised return of voltage to the network, leading to a threat to the life and health of both the operator's employees and the distribution network, as well as to the nearby people and animals; deterioration of the quality of the electrical energy supplied to the other users connected to the electrical appliances used by them due to increased voltage at the point of connection of the existing demand facility, where no limiting automation was installed. The problems listed, colleagues, are only a small part of all possible events that can occur when the possibility is dropped, opinions on the relevant parts can be drawn up. In their preparation, the specialists of the relevant part shall always review the site and, depending on the specific situation, assess the most optimal version corresponding to the regulatory framework. I recall that with the changes already made on 7 June 2020 in the Law on Construction of the Area, investment intentions for the construction of an installation for own consumption, the procedure has been simplified to a minimum. Even now, what you're proposing is that there is absolutely no such procedure. Now it is proposed that everything disappears as an option to provide any documentation. The risks of such a change are enormous, so we cannot afford to support such texts. The administrative facilitation of citizens is important, colleagues, but their lives and health are much more important. So if the bill still goes to the first vote and comes to the second vote, here for the record, I would like to say that we will make our own proposals between the first and second votes so that it does not happen that today or tomorrow we will look at this bill once again at the second vote, so that the correct recordings in the Bill and legislation can actually be made so that risks to life and to people's health are not received. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the MPs Temenuzhka Petkova and Nikolay Nankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u306	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. For lines? Mr. Mitev? For a line, Mr. Mitev. Are there lines? I won't. For the procedure Mr. Mitev, please come in. Mr. Georgiev, there will be no time for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u307	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Mr. President, I just want to make it clear from this tribune today that DPS, GERB and ARCHIVER, which are in the Chamber, did not register and prevented four bills from being adopted, and these four bills are all under the PWU. So, dear Bulgarian citizens, when one day your birth tells you how many thoughts about Bulgaria, think of this very moment when they were in the hall, it took eight votes to have a quorum and to adopt four laws from the Ministry of Education, and the people who claim to be fighting for Bulgaria showed the middle finger to everyone, especially themselves, and especially to their constituents. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2022-07-28.u308	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Dear colleagues, due to the running out of time for today's plenary session... [[National Representative Emil Georgiev wants the floor.]] Mr. Georgiev, you have had the opportunity to extend the time and to have the opportunity to speak in a procedure. By running out of time in today's plenary session, I am closing the same thing. The next regular plenary session will take place tomorrow, July 29th, at 9:00 a.m. on the already adopted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
